---

title: Method of decoupling the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile and the mode of automatic following of the vertical profile
abstract: The present invention relates to a method of decoupling the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile and the mode of automatic following of the vertical profile of an automatic guidance system of an aircraft (A) flying on a reference trajectory (T). The mode of automatic following of the vertical profile is not disengaged immediately on disengaging the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile. After disengaging the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile, the mode of automatic following of the vertical profile is disengaged automatically only if at least one criterion of lateral separation between the current or short-term position of the aircraft and the lateral profile corresponding to the reference trajectory is satisfied, having regard to the position error.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08838299&OS=08838299&RS=08838299
owner: Thales
number: 08838299
owner_city: Neuilly sur Seine
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20081204
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from French patent application No. 0708455 filed with the French Patent Office on Dec. 4 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to a method of decoupling the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile and the mode of automatic following of the vertical profile of an automatic guidance system of an aircraft flying on a reference trajectory. It applies for example in the field of flight management systems.

A flight plan is the detailed description of the route that must be followed by an airplane within the framework of a planned flight. The flight plan comprises notably a chronological sequence of waypoints described by their position their altitude and their overflight time. The waypoints constitute a reference trajectory to be followed by the pilot of the airplane if he wishes to best comply with his flight plan. But this reference trajectory is also a valuable aid to the ground control personnel. It allows them to anticipate the movements of the airplane and thus ensure an optimum safety level notably within the framework of maintaining the inter aircraft separation criteria. The flight plan is commonly managed aboard civil airplanes by a system referred to as the Flight Management System which will be called the FMS subsequently. An FMS makes the reference trajectory available to the onboard personnel and to the other embedded systems.

Essentially with a view to safety it is therefore necessary to ensure that the airplane follows at least in geographical terms and optionally in scheduling terms the reference trajectory described in the flight plan. For this purpose guidance procedures make it possible to slave the airplane to a lateral profile and to a vertical profile that are contained in the reference trajectory. For example in so called managed mode the automatic pilot formulates maneuvers on the basis of the reference trajectory made available by the FMS and executes them automatically so as to follow as closely as possible in three dimensional space the trajectory corresponding to the reference trajectory. However in the terminal zones with high traffic density or in the approach controllers usually prefer to ensure guidance themselves on the basis of heading and speed instructions so as to ensure optimum separation in real time. Moreover in certain situations it is preferable or indeed indispensable to veer from the reference trajectory. For example the reference trajectory may cause the airplane to cut across another aircraft violating the lateral separation criteria. From his ground control center the traffic controller in charge of flight separation and anticollision with other airplanes anticipates in advance and forestalls the potential risks since he is cognizant of the whole of the aerial situation within a wide perimeter around the aircraft that he is controlling. He then implements pre established procedures for coordination between the ground and the craft these procedures commonly being grouped together under the name Radar Vectoring . Radar Vectoring procedures can make it possible to ensure that two aircraft cross under optimum safety conditions. They are based on a set of guidance instructions or directives also predefined that the controller passes to the pilot. These directives are improperly grouped together under the name clearance . The pilot then disengages the functions of automatic following of the reference trajectory and manually executes the guidance directives that he receives from the controller one after another each time confirming their execution to the controller. Very often the directives are exclusively passed verbally by VHF radio the pilot confirming execution by phone also although certain recent systems use digital data links in parallel to exchange a few guidance directives.

For example the controller controlling the flight under radar guidance in a terminal zone or on the approach and not being precisely aware of the airplane s envisaged trajectory will give the pilot a directive for following a heading complying with the traffic separation requirement without however needing to deviate overly from the trajectory calculated by the FMS. The pilot must then disengage the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile so as to manually follow the heading directive given by the controller. For this purpose current solutions require him to simultaneously disengage the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile and the mode of automatic following of the vertical profile the lateral profile and the vertical profile forming part of the reference trajectory. Specifically the vertical profile being constructed on the basis of the lateral profile it seems obvious that following the vertical profile makes no sense if the lateral profile is no longer followed. It is even probable that the vertical profile rapidly becomes impossible to follow if the lateral profile is no longer followed. The FMS according to the prior art therefore requires that the airplane be slaved to the lateral profile so as to be able to follow the vertical profile. It must be understood that the lateral profile presents a particular benefit for the ground controller in his tasks of maintaining the inter aircraft separation criteria. Whereas the vertical profile presents rather more a particular benefit for the pilot in his flight optimization logic in terms of kerosene consumption passenger comfort and flight time so as to comply with his landing slot. In the approach zone for example the controller guides the airplane while favoring lateral directives even though he tries to follow the other constraints of the flight plan as far as possible as regards the safety of flights in the approach zone.

But on the one hand the pilot may be hampered in anticipating and optimizing the end of his flight when he no longer has the assistance of the vertical profile automatic following mode. As long as he has not received any specific instruction from the controller this generally being the case the pilot is left somewhat to himself in the choice of his vertical flight strategy in manual. Moreover the FMS continues to make predictions on the vertical profile making the assumption that the vertical profile of the reference trajectory will be recovered at the earliest that is to say a recovery maneuver will be triggered immediately although this is not the case. Thus in addition to the fact that the predictions are false the FMS is unnecessarily burdened since it permanently recalculates a recovery trajectory. It is therefore apparent that this operational logic combined with the simultaneous disengagement according to the prior art of the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile and of the mode of automatic following of the vertical profile give rise to a loss of predictability regarding the vertical profile regarding the speed profile and regarding the flight time an unnecessary overburdening of the FMS and a loss of anticipation for the pilot.

Additionally it sometimes happens that the controller changes his mind and dispatches a resume route directive so as to return the airplane to its reference trajectory. In this case the fact that the lateral profile is no longer followed turns out to be particularly regrettable from the pilot s point of view.

The aim of the invention is notably to remedy the aforesaid drawbacks. For this purpose the invention proposes that the mode of automatic following of the vertical profile not be immediately disengaged when the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile is disengaged. Since very often the requested heading more or less follows the lateral profile of the reference trajectory making it possible in practice to continue to follow the optimized vertical profile for a certain time. Often the controller leaves the pilot a certain margin in altitude. He sometimes even leaves the pilot free to choose his vertical profile as long as he follows the lateral directives. Thus the invention proposes that the vertical mode be disengaged later only when the airplane has deviated from its reference trajectory to a distance such that to rejoin it would engender a deviation in flight time and distance that would require complete recalculation of the vertical profile. For this purpose the subject of the invention is a method of decoupling the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile and the mode of automatic following of the vertical profile of an automatic guidance system of an aircraft flying on a reference trajectory. The mode of automatic following of the vertical profile is not disengaged on disengaging the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile. After disengaging the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile the mode of automatic following of the vertical profile is disengaged automatically only if at least one criterion of lateral separation between the aircraft and the lateral profile corresponding to the reference trajectory is satisfied.

For example after disengaging the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile the mode of automatic following of the vertical profile may be disengaged automatically only if the aircraft is liable to deviate from the lateral profile corresponding to the reference trajectory by a distance that is greater than a given threshold.

Advantageously the distance by which the aircraft is liable to deviate from the lateral profile can be calculated by firstly estimating the current position of the aircraft on the basis of its measured position to which can be added the precision error liable to make it deviate to the maximum from the lateral profile. Then it is possible to estimate the position of the aircraft after a period t if on starting from its current position it maintains its speed and or its angle of roll constant during the period t. Finally it is possible to estimate the distance between the position of the aircraft after the period t and the point of the lateral profile situated at the same altitude.

In an embodiment after disengaging the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile the mode of automatic following of the vertical profile can be disengaged automatically if the aircraft is at a distance from the lateral profile that is greater than the distance threshold. The mode of automatic following of the vertical profile can also be disengaged automatically if the aircraft strays from the lateral profile so that after the period t it will be at a distance from the lateral profile that is greater than the threshold.

The object of the invention is also a method of decoupling the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile and the mode of automatic following of the vertical profile of an automatic guidance system of an aircraft flying on a reference trajectory. The mode of automatic following of the vertical profile is engaged automatically if the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile is about to be engaged and if a criterion of lateral proximity between the aircraft and the lateral profile corresponding to the reference trajectory is satisfied.

For example the mode of automatic following of the vertical profile can be engaged automatically if the aircraft is liable to approach the lateral profile corresponding to the reference trajectory by a distance that is less than a given threshold.

Advantageously the distance by which the aircraft is liable to approach the lateral profile can be calculated by estimating the current position of the aircraft on the basis of its measured position to which is added the precision error liable to make it approach to the maximum the lateral profile. Then it is possible to estimate the position of the aircraft after a period t if on starting from its current position it maintains its speed and or its angle of roll constant during the period t. Finally it is possible to estimate the distance between the position of the aircraft after the period t and the point of the lateral profile situated at the same altitude.

In an embodiment the mode of automatic following of the vertical profile can be engaged automatically if the aircraft is at a distance from the lateral profile that is less than the distance threshold or if the aircraft approaches the lateral profile so that after the period t it will be at a distance from the lateral profile that is less than the threshold.

The subject of the invention is also a method of decoupling the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile and the mode of automatic following of the vertical profile of an automatic guidance system of an aircraft flying on a reference trajectory implementing the two methods previously described.

In addition to the benefit of flying an optimized vertical profile for a long time and of decreasing the pilot s loss of anticipation the main advantages of the invention are furthermore that it allows better command of the arrival time in the case where the airplane has a time constraint on arrival a scenario that will become increasingly frequent with the densification of air traffic. Conversely the invention can also make it possible on the basis of the same function implementing the same operational logic according to the invention to anticipate the engagement of the lateral following mode so as to engage the vertical following mode in advance when the lateral following mode is about to be engaged.

The examples of operational situations illustrated by and allow the airplane A conversely to re engage in advance according to the invention the mode of automatic following of the vertical profile which is normally engaged at the same time as the mode of automatic following of the lateral profile.

In another embodiment it is conceivable to engage the VNAV mode even if the pilot has not armed the LNAV mode on condition that the airplane A can follow a vertical profile while being close to the reference trajectory T.

Advantageously in another embodiment the complete decoupling of the LNAV and VNAV modes can be carried out by applying the above described conditions of contained deviation and on condition that the lateral mode is armed.

The invention described above makes it possible to maintain the mode of following of an optimized vertical profile for a sufficient time such that the crew can prepare a new strategy making it possible to optimize the flight under the new conditions engendered by the guidance directive given by the controller. Ultimately the principle according to the invention for following the position of the airplane around its lateral profile can permit a decoupling of the modes of automatic following of the vertical profile and lateral profile.

