---

title: Methods of treating chemoresistance and relapse in cancer cells
abstract: Methods of treating or preventing chemoresistance or relapse growth of cancer cells are provided. Methods of treating or preventing resistance to tyrosine kinase based chemotherapeutic treatment in hematologic and solid tumors are provided. BCR-ABL drug resistance in chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) and models for conducting further study on the same are presented. The methods comprise administering a therapeutically effective amount of one or more SIRT modulators to the cells or subject in need thereof. The methods may be administered in combination with, prior to or subsequent to chemotherapy or may be administered to counteract the effect of a spontaneous genetic mutation. Methods of using SIRT inhibitors to treat or prevent insulin and transferrin-induced resistance are also presented. A novel cell model to study mechanisms of acquired chemoresistance is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08952028&OS=08952028&RS=08952028
owner: City of Hope
number: 08952028
owner_city: Duarte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080205
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 888 307 filed Feb. 5 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention was supported by the Department of Defense Grant No. W81XWH 06 1 0268 . The government may have certain rights in the present invention.

The present invention relates to methods of treating and or preventing chemoresistance and or relapse in cells or a subject afflicted with cancer and research models of studying the same.

Epigenetic disruptions of gene expression such as by DNA methylation and histone modifications are profoundly involved in tumorigenesis. For leukemia the gene hypermethylated in cancer 1 HIC1 is unique because hypermethylation of the gene s promoter region occurs progressively towards the late phases of hematologic malignancies. HIC1 encodes a DNA binding zinc finger transcriptional factor that is essential for mammalian development. The HIC1 gene is inactivated but not mutated in certain human cancers such as chronic myelogeneous leukemia CML and relapsed acute lymphocytic leukemias following chemotherapy. Using mouse genetics the importance of HIC1 in of tumorigenesis has recently been demonstrated. Germline disruption of one copy of HIC1 predisposes mice to a late on set and gender dependent spectrum of malignant tumors wherein promoter hypermethylation of the wild type HIC1 allele is associated with loss of function of this gene. It is also known that HIC1 plays a synergistic role with p53 in suppressing the development of age dependent cancers. Germline disruption of one copy each of HIC1 and p53 on opposite trans chromosomes or same cis chromosomes in mice results in altered tumor spectrum earlier appearance and increased prevalence and aggressiveness of osteosarcomas. Indeed a low frequency of blast crisis megakaryocytic leukemia is found in cis HIC1 and p53 double heterozygous mice.

A key mechanism by which HIC1 suppresses tumorigenesis is through its regulation of the stress and DNA damage responsive gene SIRT. SIRT1 is a mammalian orthologue of yeast silent information regulator 2 Sir2 that is required for yeast lifespan extension upon calorie restriction. An extra copy of Sir2 extends life span in yeast fly and worm. SIRT1 is a class III histone deacetylase whose enzymatic activity is dependent on cofactor NAD. SIRT1 is insensitive to histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A TSA which inhibits class I and II deacetylases. The mammalian SIRT1 maintains cell survival during stress and DNA damage through multiple pathways one of which includes the deacetylation of p53 and attenuation of its ability to activate downstream targets to control apoptosis. HIC1 forms a complex with SIRT1 protein. This HIC1 SIRT1 protein complex directly binds to the SIRT1 promoter in vivo to repress SIRT1 gene transcription. Loss of HIC1 expression by promoter hypermethylation upregulates SIRT1 in cancer cells attenuates p53 activity by deacetylation and allows cells to bypass apoptosis and survive stress and DNA damage. Inhibition of SIRT1 function in cells without HIC1 abolishes the resistance to apoptosis.

Chronic myelogenous leukemia is a fatal hematopoietic disorder resulting from malignant transformation of bone marrow progenitor cells. The disease progresses from chronic phase to accelerated phase to terminal blast crisis phase. CML is characterized by a reciprocal translocation of chromosome 9 and 22 that creates an oncogenic fusion gene BCR ABL. This gene produces a protein with deregulated BCR ABL tyrosine kinase activity. Imatinib mesylate also known as imitanib Gleevac or STI 571 is a potent ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitor. In most chronic phase patients treatment with imatinib results in major and complete hematologic responses and infrequent relapse. However in most blast crisis patients there is a poor response to imatinib treatment and a high frequency of relapse in those patients having an initial response. The molecular mechanisms of the resistance to imatinib may consist of both BCR ABL dependent and independent pathways. BCR ABL dependent pathways are characterized by genetic alterations of the BCR ABL gene.

The clinical resistance to imatinib treatment is mediated primarily by genetic mutations of the BCR ABL kinase domain and to a lesser extent by amplification of the BCR ABL gene. In relapsed CML patients more than 15 BCR ABL mutations have been identified. These mutations confer various degrees of resistance to imatinib. Mechanisms for formation of BCR ABL mutations in CML are not clear. The vast majority of BCR ABL mutations are detected in relapsed patients but pre existing mutations including a T315I mutation are also found in patients before imatinib treatment Gorre et al. 2001 Shah et al. 2002 . The T315I mutation has been identified thus far as being the most frequent and powerful mutation. Located in the center of the imatinib binding site is Thrand the T315I mutation blocks the drug from binding to the ABL kinase. In vitro studies of the process by which BCR ABL is mutated in CML cells is difficult because unlike what occurs in vivo nearly all CML cell lines derived from blast crisis CML are sensitive to 1 M STI 571 treatment. Deininger et al. 1997 . Nilotinib AMN107 is a recently developed BCR ABL inhibitor having greater potency. It inhibits most of the known mutants with the exception of the T315I mutation. Similarly the potent dual SRC ABL kinase inhibitor dasatinib BMS 354825 inhibits 14 of 15 BCR ABL mutants but not T315I. However in vivo CML patients with a T315I mutation do not respond to either nilotinib or dasatinib. Without further effective treatment these blast crisis patients are terminal. Accordingly a method of treating these relapsed patients or preventing formation of this resistant mutation is highly desired.

Several resistant CML cell lines have been developed by gradually exposing cells to increasing concentrations of STI 571. Mahon et al. 2000 . However these resistant cell lines all have BCR ABL gene amplification but lack mutations. This is opposite to the results seen in patients. Today most in vitro mutation studies are carried out using murine cell lines such as Ba F3 cells a murine pro B cell line transfected with genetically engineered BCR ABL mutations. La Rosee et al. 2002 Shah et al. 2004 von Bubnoff et al. 2006 von Bubnoff et al. 2005 Weisberg et al. 2005 . Although these cell lines are important for addressing mutant kinase activity they do not reflect in vivo mechanisms of BCR ABL mutagenesis and thereby cannot be use to address mechanisms of BCR ABL mutagenesis in natural cellular and molecular contexts of CML and cannot be applied to development of strategies for preventing such mutations. The use of these cells also excludes the possibility of studying other genetic and epigenetic alterations accompanying the BCR ABL mutagenesis process in mutant CML cells. Thus a CML cell line having one or more BCR ABL mutations is also highly desired because it is useful as a model system for CML disease. Use of such cell lines will facilitate further study of the mechanism of disease development and progression and assist in the further identification of therapeutic treatments for this disease.

Methods of treating or preventing BCR ABL drug resistance in chronic myelogenous leukemia CML comprise administering a therapeutically effective amount of one or more SIRT1 modulators to the cells or subject in need thereof. Thus in one aspect the invention provides a method of inhibiting growth of a tumor cell. If the tumor cell is a leukemia cell it may be chronic myelogenous leukemia acute myelogenous leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia acute lymphocytic leukemia or hairy cell leukemia. In another aspect the invention provides a method of inhibiting relapse growth of cancer cells or preventing chemoresistance. This method comprises use of a modulator of SIRT1 such as a SIRT1 inhibitor. A modulator includes inhibitors of SIRT1 protein inhibitors of the SIRT1 gene transcription or translation inhibition or both . A SIRT1 inhibitor may be a napthol compound for example sirtinol or splitomicin an indole siRNA a derivative of a SIRT1 inhibitor an analogue of a SIRT1 inhibitor or any combination thereof. Chemoresistance such as BCR ABL drug resistance may be caused by administration of a cancer treating drug such as STI 571 imatinib nilotinib dasatinib or another cancer treating drug. Alternatively drug resistance may be caused by another drug or compound administered to the patient environmental factors or may be a naturally occurring resistance. The drug resistance may be the result of a genetic mutation such as the T315I mutation of the BCR ABL gene. The SIRT1 inhibitor may also treat or prevent insulin and transferrin induced resistance.

Additionally a method for making a model of acquired resistance in human cancers which simulates a patient s chemoresistance response is provided. Such a method allows for the study of mechanisms involved in the development of acquired resistance such as through induction of genetic mutations of oncogenic tyrosine kinases as well as through alteration of DNA damage response pathways. Cell line models are also provided. Use of these model systems allow for the screening identification testing and discovery of therapeutic compounds useful for treating cancer and especially cancer relapse from chemoresistant cell growth.

A novel CML resistance model using na ve blast crisis CML cells is also provided. Using this model key features of clinical resistance such as rapid growth of cancer cells after direct exposure of the cancer cells to therapeutically effective concentrations of chemotherapeutic compounds can be replicated. Cancer cells which survive chemotherapeutic treatment also referred to herein as relapse growth exhibit genetic mutations at the BCR ABL locus. This model will serve as a useful system for designing testing screening and identifying new therapeutic strategies for treating chemoresistant cancer. The methods provided herein are also useful for developing cell culture models of acquired resistance in solid tumors such as non small cell lung carcinomas. Over active SIRT1 pathway is a mechanism by which acquired resistance develops in hematologic as well as solid tumors. The present invention provides treatment and diagnostic modalities based upon this discovery.

The presently disclosed methods and models are not limited to the particular configurations process steps and materials disclosed herein as such configurations process steps and materials may vary without materially varying from the scope and spirit. It is also to be understood that the terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. The examples are intended only to illustrate the invention and are not meant as limitations on it. All references referred to herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

 Agonist refers to a ligand that interacts with or binds to its receptor to up regulate accelerate or activate the activity of a compound receptor gene or protein.

 Antagonist refers to a ligand that interacts with or binds to its receptor to downregulate suppress or inhibit the activity of a compound receptor gene or protein.

 Antisense molecule refers to a nucleic acid molecule that hybridizes to all or a portion of a target gene or all or a portion of an mRNA encoded by a target gene. Hybridization of an antisense molecule to a target gene or a portion thereof may inhibit expression of the target gene by inhibiting transcription of the gene sequence while hybridization of an antisense molecule to a transcript encoded by a target gene may inhibit expression of the target gene by inhibiting translation of the transcript into a polypeptide sequence.

 Chemotherapeutic agent refers to any chemical compound or treatment method that induces cell damage results in cell death or both. Specific chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to kinase inhibitors such as tyrosine kinase inhibitors TKI which include imatinib gefitinib erlotinib lapatinib CI 1033 PKI 166 GW 2016 as well as others that will be known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Other chemotherapeutic agents include imatiactinomycin D adriamycin androgens asparagine azathioprine BCG bleomycin camptothecin cisplatin epirubicin etopside gemcitabine hydroxyurea interferon alpha interferon beta interferon gamma mitomycin C paclitaxel thioguanine 5 fluorouracil 6 mercaptopurine or other drugs. In addition chemotherapeutic agent may refer to radiation and waves such as electroemissions gamma radiation microwaves UV irradiation or X rays. Other chemotherapeutic agents may include natural or synthetic antibodies tyrosine kinase inhibitors enzymatic inhibitors growth factor inhibitors metastases inhibiting compounds or oncogenic protein inhibitors such as compounds that inhibit RAS protein kinase or DNA topoisomerase.

 SIRT1 inhibitor refers to one or more compound that inhibits SIRT1 activity. Such inhibition includes direct as well as indirect inhibition of SIRT1 activity. Exemplary SIRT1 inhibitors include but are not limited to one or more agent or compound which results in inhibition of SIRT1 function inhibition of expression of SIRT1 protein inhibition of transcription or translation of the SIRT1 gene or both. For example a SIRT1 inhibitor includes sirtinol as well as its derivatives and other small molecule compounds able to reduce or inhibit SIRT1 activity. SIrt1 inhibitors include sirtinol a sirtinol analogue or derivative splitomicin a splitomicin analogue napthol a napthol derivative an indole an indole derivative siRNA shRNA antisense RNA or any combination thereof.

 Duration refers to the amount of time a desired gene is expressed and may be measured for example in months weeks days hours minutes and or seconds. Inhibit with regards to an activity means to suppress the activity either by decreasing the level or rate of the activity blocking or preventing the activity entirely or preventing an increase in the activity under conditions in which the activity would normally be increased.

 In combination with refers to two or more substances being administered simultaneously or in series close enough in time to bring about a therapeutically effective result.

 Leukemic disorder refers to a cancerous disorder of blood forming tissues e.g. spleen bone marrow lymphatics liver characterized by excessive leukocyte production. The term encompasses myeloid leukemias such as for example acute myeloid leukemia AML chronic myeloid leukemia CML and various subtypes thereof and lymphocytic leukemias such as for example acute lymphocytic leukemia ALL chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL hairy cell leukemia HCL and various subtypes thereof.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers to a pharmaceutically acceptable material composition or vehicle that is involved in carrying or transporting a compound of interest from one tissue organ or portion of the body to another tissue organ or portion of the body. For example the carrier may be a liquid or solid filler diluent excipient solvent or encapsulating material or some combination thereof. Each component of the carrier must be pharmaceutically acceptable in that it must be compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation. It also must be suitable for contact with any tissue organ or portion of the body that it may encounter meaning that it must not carry a risk of toxicity irritation allergic response immunogenicity or any other complication that excessively outweighs its therapeutic benefits.

 Polynucleotide refers to any polyribonucleotide polydeoxyribonucleotide or hybrid polyribo polydeoxyribonucleotide including naturally occurring polynucleotides synthetic polynucleotides or any chemically enzymatically or metabolically modified forms of naturally occurring polynucleotides. The term encompasses both single and double stranded molecules including DNA DNA DNA RNA or RNA RNA duplexes as well as molecules that are a mixture of single and double stranded regions. Polynucleotide also refers to triple stranded molecules comprising DNA RNA or both DNA and RNA. Polynucleotides may contain any of the standard pyrimidine or purine bases i.e. adenine guanine cytosine thymine uracil as well as any modified or uncommon bases such as tritylated bases or inosine. In addition the backbone of a polynucleotide may be modified for stability or for other reasons. Polynucleotides also refers to relatively short polynucleotides often referred to as oligonucleotides and to peptide nucleic acids PNAs formed by conjugating bases to a peptide backbone.

 Prodrug as used herein refers to a derivative of a pharmaceutically or therapeutically active drug that is transformed into the active drug by an enzymatic or chemical process. Prodrugs may be developed to alter the metabolic stability or transport characteristics of a drug to mask side effects or toxicity of a drug or to improve or alter other characteristics of the drug. See for example Notari R. E. 1985. Theory and practice of prodrug kinetics. Methods Enzymol 112 309 323 Bodor N. 1981. Novel approaches in prodrug design. Drugs of the Future 6 165 182 Bundgaard H. 1985 Design of prodrugs bioreversible derivatives for various functional groups and chemical entities Chap. 1 in Design of Prodrugs H. Bundgaard Ed. Elsevier N.Y. 1985.

 RNA interference RNAi refers to a post transcriptional gene silencing PGSR process whereby one or more exogenous small interfering RNA siRNA molecules are used to silence expression of a target gene.

 siRNAs short interfering RNAs are double stranded RNA molecules generally around 15 30 nucleotides in length that are complementary to the sequence of the mRNA molecule transcribed from a target gene. Following introduction into a cell the siRNA molecule associates with one or more cellular proteins to form a siRNA protein complex RISC which then binds to the mRNA transcript of the target gene. RISC binding results in degradation of the mRNA molecule thereby preventing translation.

 shRNAs small hairpin RNAs are short hairpin turned RNA sequences that may be used to inhibit or suppress gene expression.

 Subject refers to any animal including a human having a cell that may be treated by the methods or products discovered or tested by the methods of this disclosure.

 Route of administration may refer to any administration pathway known in the art including but not limited to aerosol enteral nasal ophthalmic oral parenteral rectal transdermal e.g. topical cream or ointment patch or vaginal. Transdermal administration may be accomplished using a topical cream or ointment or by means of a transdermal patch. Parenteral refers to a route of administration that is generally associated with injection including infraorbital infusion intraarterial intracapsular intracardiac intradermal intramuscular intraperitoneal intrapulmonary intraspinal intrasternal intrathecal intrauterine intravenous subarachnoid subcapsular subcutaneous transmucosal or transtracheal.

 Therapeutically effective amount is an amount of a compound that produces a desired therapeutic effect in a subject such as preventing or treating a target condition or alleviating symptoms associated with the condition. The precise therapeutically effective amount is an amount of the composition that will yield the most effective results in terms of efficacy of treatment in a given subject. This amount will vary depending upon a variety of factors including but not limited to the characteristics of the therapeutic compound including activity pharmacokinetics pharmacodynamics and bioavailability the physiological condition of the subject including age sex disease type and stage general physical condition responsiveness to a given dosage and type of medication the nature of the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or carriers in the formulation and the route of administration. One skilled in the clinical and pharmacological arts will be able to determine a therapeutically effective amount through routine experimentation namely by monitoring a subject s response to administration of a compound and adjusting the dosage accordingly. For additional guidance see Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy 21Edition Univ. of Sciences in Philadelphia USIP Lippincott Williams Wilkins Philadelphia Pa. 2005.

 Treating or treatment of a condition may refer to preventing the condition slowing the onset or rate of development of the condition reducing the risk of developing the condition preventing or delaying the development of symptoms associated with the condition reducing or ending symptoms associated with the condition generating a complete or partial regression of the condition or some combination thereof.

Methods for treating or preventing cancer cell growth treating or preventing resistance of a cancer cell to chemotherapy or treating or preventing the relapse growth of one or more cancer cell are provided. The cancer cell is usually a hematologic disorder or a solid tumor. Commonly the hematologic disorder is chronic myelogenous leukemia CML . An exemplary cancer cell associated with a solid tumor is non small cell lung carcinoma NSCLC . A therapeutically effective amount of a SIRT1 modulator or a combination of multiple SIRT1 modulators is administered to a subject in need thereof. Frequently a therapeutically effective amount of a modulator such as a SIRT1 inhibitor is administered. A SIRT1 inhibitor includes one or more inhibitors of sirtuins class III histone protein deacetylases such as sirtinol or its analogue which is administered in combination with the chemotherapeutic agent. Generally the SIRT1 modulator is administered at or about the same time as the chemotherapeutic agent but can also if desired be administered prior to or subsequent to the administration of the chemotherapeutic agent. The SIRT1 modulator may either be an agonist or antagonist of SIRT1 and may be any molecule compound or agent that acts to modulate SIRT1. Such modulators include but are not limited to derivatives analogues small molecules decoy molecules drugs or prodrugs polynucleotides particularly antisense molecules and RNA interference using siRNA shRNA polypeptides antibodies including chimeric antibodies or any other substance that acts on SIRT1 in an intended manner. If the SIRT1 modulator is a SIRT1 antagonist acting to inhibit SIRT1 the inhibitor is preferably a napthol compound for example sirtinol or splitomicin EX 527 an indole or its derivative siRNA shRNA or any combination thereof.

Drug resistance or cancer cell relapse may be caused by administration of a chemotherapeutic agent such as imatinib gefitinib nilotinib dasatinib or another cancer treating drug. Imatinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor. It interferes with BCR ABL protein function. Gefinitib inhibits EGFR kinase. BCR ABL drug resistance may be caused by administration of a chemotherapeutic agent such as imatinib nilotinib dasatinib VX 680 a dual Aurora kinase and BCR ABL inhibitor or another cancer treating drug. Alternatively resistance may be caused by another drug or compound administered to the patient environmental factors or may be a naturally occurring resistance. Relapse in chronic myeloid leukemia patients treated with imatinib such as STI 571 is an example of one form of clinical chemoresistance associated with a point mutation or amplification of the BCR ABL gene. Thus the SIRT1 modular may also be administered in conjunction with a tyrosine kinase inhibitor.

Both the SIRT1 modulator and the chemotherapeutic agent are to be applied in therapeutically effective amounts and for any duration necessary to treat the cancer or prevent relapse of the cancer. A clinician can gauge the dosages for each required by the subject using known methods of optimizing drug performance and delivery by taking into account clinical data regarding tolerances age gender severity of the disease health of the subject and the like. Preferably the SIRT1 modulator is an inhibitor that is administered to the subject in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The route of administration may be any route effective to carry the therapeutic SIRT1 modulator to the cancer cells in the subject including any of the routes discussed above. In addition the SIRT1 modulator may also be used treat or prevent insulin and transferrin induced resistance as well as EGFR epidermal growth factor receptor associated resistance.

A method of preventing chemoresistance in CML cells comprising administering a therapeutic drug or combination of therapeutic drugs that prevent formation of a T315I mutation and other BCR ABL mutations is also provided. These BCR ABL mutations in cancer cells particularly CML cells are responsible for anti apoptotic activity and as such prevent the cancerous cells from responding to traditional chemotherapy radiotherapy or other cytotoxic agents. Preferably the therapeutic drug is comprises a SIRT1 antagonist such as sirtinol a sirtinol analogue splitomicin an indole siRNA shRNA Aurora kinase inhibitor or any combination thereof.

Another embodiment improves the efficacy of a cytotoxic agent directed to CML cells in a subject by administering to the subject at least one cytotoxic agent directed to CML cells and administering to the subject a SIRT1 inhibitor in a therapeutically effective amount so that the SIRT1 inhibitor enhances the efficacy of the cytotoxic agent relative to the effect of the cytotoxic agent in the absence of the SIRT1 inhibitor. The cytotoxic agent may be a BCR ABL inhibitor such as STI 571 imatinib nilotinib or dasatinib or any combination thereof and the SIRT1 inhibitor is siRNA a napthol compound sirtinol splitomicin an indole or any combination thereof. This method also treats or prevents insulin and transferrin induced resistance. The methods of the present invention may be performed on any animal with cancer or CML but are preferably for humans.

A novel tissue culture model to study mechanisms of BCR ABL drug resistance is also provided which simulates a subject s responses to chemotherapeutic treatment such as to STI 571 treatment. Blast crisis CML cell line KCL 22 is refractory to treatment with 1 M imatinib Deininger et al. 1997 . By treating KCL 22 cells with therapeutically effective doses of imatinib while apoptosis of the KCL 22 cells was induced relapse occurs in two weeks with development of T315I BCR ABL mutation. Following the initial apoptosis upon STI 571 treatment with dosages equivalent to that found in human plasma the KCL 22 cells developed the T315I mutation of the BCR ABL kinase domain at high frequency in two weeks. However when small molecule inhibitors of SIRT1 were used in combination with STI 571 the BCR ABL mutation was prevented and CML cells were eliminated without relapse. These results demonstrate T315I mutation can be rapidly induced by Imatinib treatment but is preventable.

The method of screening for a candidate SIRT1 inhibitor for reducing chemoresistance or relapse in a cancer cell culture can be broadly applied and has the following steps. First a base level of chemoresistance or relapse is established in a cancer cell culture such as a cancer cell line after administration of one or more chemotherapeutic agents by treating the cancer cell culture with the chemotherapeutic agent under conditions which induce chemoresistance or relapse in the cell culture. Then the candidate SIRT1 inhibitor is administered to previously untreated cells of the cell culture before during and or after administering the one or more chemotherapeutic agents. Finally the level of chemoresistant or relapsed cells after treatment with the candidate SIRT1 inhibitor and the chemotherapeutic drug is measured. A reduction or absence of chemoresistant or relapsed cells as compared to base level of chemoresistance or relapse established at the outset of the model indicates that the compound is a SIRT1 inhibitor.

Therefore the culture system developed provides among other things the first in vitro system of its kind to study mechanisms of BCR ABL mutagenesis in the natural molecular and cellular contexts of CML. The methods and system provided herein can be used to develop strategies to treat and prevent formation of such a mutation. The discovery that SIRT1 inhibitors can block T315I mutation and completely eliminate CML cells when administered with imatinib also provides a novel treatment modality for CML patients. In addition the T315I mutant cells generated from this system also provide invaluable tools for studying mechanisms of resistance after mutation and strategies to eradicate these highly resistant cells.

Using this model key features of clinical resistance such as rapid relapse through BCR ABL mutations after imatinib treatment can be replicated. This model will serve as a system for designing testing screening and identifying new therapeutic strategies for treating CML. For example the resistance model can be used to screen modulators of enzymatic activity or small molecule inhibitors such as those which inhibit SIRT1 chemotherapeutics compounds or anti cancer modalities having therapeutic efficacy or those able to inhibit BCR ABL mutation based resistance. The resistance model may also be used for further studies of resistance mechanisms which will allow for the design of new therapeutic strategies such as use of small molecule inhibitors to prevent the induction of those mutations that accompany a cancer drug treatment 

The novel tissue culture method provided herein closely simulates in vivo CML relapse on imatinib treatment using KCL 22 cells. By direct exposure of cells to Imatinib with concentrations pertinent to those in patient plasma the T315I mutation of BCR ABL can be induced rapidly with high frequency. The resultant T315I mutant cells differ from parental KCL 22 cells in size morphology and cell cycle and they are highly resistant to various treatments. SF medium or supplying insulin in serum medium will also provide CML cells resistance to Imatinib treatment. Finally the combination of Imatinib with SIRT1 inhibitors will prevent CML relapse and abolish growth factor induced resistance. Thus the methods outlined herein provide a platform for studying strategies for preventing formation of such a mutation and screening for small molecule inhibitors for blocking CML relapse.

The present invention also includes the discovery of a novel mechanism for acquired resistance through active induction of genetic mutations of oncogenic tyrosine kinases in human cancer. SIRT1 is a key gene for controlling active induction of genetic mutations on tyrosine kinases through altering DNA damage pathways. Inhibitors of SIRT1 will inhibit acquired resistance through prevention of genetic mutations and thus are especially useful in the clinical setting where combination cancer therapeutics are applicable or utilized. The present invention however is not limited to CML. Rather as is understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art the mechanisms of acquired resistance and functions of SIRT1 and its inhibitors described herein can also be applied to treatment of acquired resistance in other cancers.

Clonal cells derived from parental KCL 22 cells also predominantly develop resistance to imatinib by BCR ABL mutations including the T315I SEQ ID NO 2 E255K SEQ ID NO 3 and Y253H SEQ ID NO 3 SEQ ID NO 4 mutations. The mutations exhibited by the clonal cells recapitulate the most frequently observed mutations in CML patients Shah et al. 2002 Soverini et al. 2006 . Furthermore the rapid relapse is similar to that seen in blast crisis patients. The ability to form BCR ABL mutations in clonal cells indicates that pre existing rare mutant cells from the original patient are not required for development of resistance. The BCR ABL mutation frequency varies among clones while HPRT mutation frequency remains relatively constant. Unlike the broad mutation spectrum of HPRT observed in parental or clonal cells BCR ABL mutations may be limited to one mutation in a parental cell or a clone. Additionally while the spontaneous mutation frequency of HPRT remains relatively constant throughout cell passages frequency of BCR ABL mutation declines in later passages. The data provided herein indicate that BCR ABL mutations upon imatinib treatment are not always derived from random DNA replication error during clonal expansion or cell propagation but are actively induced by imatinib treatment. The invention includes a novel model system for testing and identifying therapeutic modalities and compounds for treating CML. The invention includes systems methods and cell lines based on the discovery that the targeting of a tyrosine kinase as an anti cancer treatment may in itself be mutagenic and thereby induce DNA mutations thereby directly or indirectly contributing to clinical acquired chemoresistance.

The following examples are put forth so as to provide those of ordinary skill in the art exemplary descriptions of how to make and use the methods and compositions of the invention and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

An in vitro model of CML chemoresistance. CML cell lines KCL 22 and K562 were purchased from German Collection of Cell Cultures Braunschweig Germany and grown in RPMI 1640 medium with 10 fetal bovine serum Hyclone . STI 571 was provided by Novartis Basel Switzerland. Sirtinol splitomicin nicotinamide trichostatin A and 5 aza 2 deoxycytidine were purchased from Sigma. For serum free culture basic supplements ITS I 1884 EGF and HDL were purchased from Sigma and insulin from Roche.

In contrast to the in vivo resistance observed in blast crisis CML patients treated with STI 571 CML cell lines derived from blast crisis patients are sensitive to STI 571 treatment. STI 571 at 1 M selectively kills CML cells in BCR ABL dependent manner with the exception of KCL 22 cells whereas 10 M STI 571 results in cell death independent of BCR ABL. In chronic phase CML patients STI 571 is given at 400 mg day that produces the average peak plasma concentration at 4.4 M and trough concentration at 2.0 M. For blast crisis patients STI 571 dosage is increased to 600 mg day. Therefore effects of imatinib concentrations at 1 2.5 5 and 10 M were examined on the survival of KCL 22 cells during prolonged culture.

5 10KCL 22 or K562 cells were seeded in 1 ml medium per well in 24 well plates and treated with various combinations of drugs. Cells were maintained in these cultures without changing medium. Aliquots of cells were taken out at specified time points and cell numbers counted using a hematocytometer. Cell viability was accessed by trypan blue exclusion where necessary. Typically after three to five weeks in culture when medium volume significantly decreased fresh drug free medium was supplied to the cells to restore the wells to the original volume for prolonged culture.

It was found that KCL 22 cells were refractory to 1 M STI 571 treatment as they continued to grow and at a lower rate than in the absence of the drug. STI 571 at 2.5 M and above effectively suppressed cell growth and induced partial cell death over time . Small clusters of cells formed after about 10 days in treatment groups with 2.5 M and above of STI 571 and these cells appeared visibly larger with frequent bizarre shapes . After two weeks they repopulated the culture indicating the relapse on the drug treatment. These emerging cells named KCL 22M grew equally well as KCL 22 cells and no longer responded to presence of imatinib in the medium . They formed fewer and smaller soft agar colonies . The abnormal size and shape of KCL 22M cells were confirmed by flow cytometric analysis showing increase on both forward scatter for size and side scatter for complexity . KCL 22M cells also exhibited different cell cycle status from KCL 22 cells by increasing S G2 population .

Molecular characterization of KCL 22M cells was also performed. The KCL 22 cells were refractory to imatinib treatment. Imatinib effectively inhibited tyrosine phosphorylation by direct Western blot analysis of total cell lysate or immunoprecipitation of BCR ABL protein . Tyrosine phosphorylation was not altered by imatinib treatment in KCL 22M cells . Since genetic mutations are predominant mechanisms for in vivo resistance of STI 571 it was examined whether mutations occurred in the KCL 22M cells. Both cDNA and genomic DNA were sequenced for BCR ABL kinase domain using the strategies described by Gorre et al 2001 . In the 579 bp cDNA region of BCR ABL kinase domain covering the ATP binding pocket and activation loop a single mutation C to T nucleotide change that resulted in amino acid T315I mutation at ABL SEQ ID NO 2was found in KCL 22M but not parental KCL 22 cells . This is the same mutation as identified in patients. The mutant clones represented 40 for 2.5 M STI 571 or 30 for 5 M STI 571 treatment in all clones sequenced respectively. Given that KCL 22 cells have a normal copy of ABL gene which is also be amplified during RT PCR half of clones are expected to be wild type. Therefore the results show that at least 60 to 80 of KCL 22M clones may carry T315I mutation SEQ ID NO 2 . Sequencing of genomic DNA further confirmed such a mutation. As T315I mutation SEQ ID NO 2 is the most powerful mutation generated after relapse on STI 571 this model recapitulates the BCR ABL mutagenesis observed in clinical relapse.

The ABL kinase domain was amplified by RT PCR of total RNA or by PCR of genomic DNA with a high fidelity DNA polymerase Strategene using primers. PCR products were cloned into the pCR2.1 vector using TOPO TA Cloning kit Invitrogen . At least ten clones for each treatment were sequenced by Sequencing Facility of Beckman Research Institute.

To determine whether the KCL 22M cells were a mixture of T315I mutants and non mutants limiting dilution was performed to obtain individual mutant cells from KCL 22M relapsed on 2.5 and 5 M imatinib respectively. Ten clones for each BCR ABL mutation were sequenced using genomic templates. It was found that 20 clones carried the T315I mutation SEQ ID NO 2 . Clonal resistant cells were separately derived by plating KCL 22 cells on soft agar with 2.5 or 5 M imatinib and cell colonies were grown. After three weeks resistance cell colonies were randomly picked and expanded for DNA sequence analysis. Twenty clones 10 from each concentration of imatinib carried the T315I mutation SEQ ID NO 2 . KCL 22 cells at various passages relapsed on imatinib and all recurrent cells had the T315I mutation SEQ ID NO 2 . These results indicate that KCL 22 cells develop acquired resistance preferably through the T315I BCR ABL mutation.

T315I mutation rate. The T315I mutation rate was measured by plating KCL 22 cells on soft agar with imatinib. A standard two layer soft agar culture was performed with bottom layer of 0.7 agarose and top layer of 0.35 agarose. One million cells per well in 6 well plates on warm top agar with imatinib in both top and bottom agar layers to their final concentrations were incubated for three weeks. Plates were then stained with 0.005 Crystal Violet for 1 hour and colonies were scored with aid of microscope. The mutation rate with 5 and 10 M imatinib was around 3 10 and 5.7 10with 2.5 M imatinib . The mutation rate in liquid culture was also measured by serial two fold dilutions of KCL 22 cells followed by treatment with 5 M imatinib. The lowest number of cells that consistently relapsed on imatinib was determined. The medium T315I mutation rate was about 1 12 500 or 8 10. This is in general agreement with the rate observed in soft agar analysis given that the plating efficiency for KCL 22 cells in soft agar was about 25 . These results indicate that imatinib treatment of KCL 22 cells results in acquired resistance through rare T315I mutation. This model recapitulates a key BCR ABL mutagenesis process that occurs in clinical relapse. This is the first CML resistance model through BCR ABL mutations that can be rapidly reproduced within two weeks after exposing cells to in vivo effective concentrations of imatinib.

In vivo most BCR ABL mutations are found in relapsed CML patients although pre existing T315I mutation SEQ ID NO 2 is detected in some CML patients before imatinib treatment Shah et al. 2002 Soverini et al. 2006 . Whether the pre existing BCR ABL mutant cells originating in the patient is a requirement for development of resistance was investigated. Individual KCL 22 cell clones were isolated by limiting dilution or soft agar plating without drug treatment. Eleven liquid culture clones L1 L11 and thirteen soft agar clones Ag1 Ag13 were expanded for analysis Table 1 . Most of the clones failed to elapse but four relapsed in two weeks with high frequency at different concentrations of imatinib. These were clones L1 L7 Ag3 and Ag11 Table 1 and . After sequence analysis of relapsed cells it was determined that clone L1 relapsed on 2.5 and 5 M with E255K BCR ABL mutation SEQ ID NO 3 clone L7 relapsed on all doses of the drug with Y253H BCR ABL mutation SEQ ID NO 4 clone Ag3 relapsed without BCR ABL kinase domain mutations on 2.5 and 5 M imatinib but with T315I mutation SEQ ID NO 2 on 10 M imatinib clone Ag11 relapsed with T315I mutation SEQ ID NO 2 on 2.5 M imatinib which is similar to parental cells Table 1 . In Table 1 no mutations have been detected in clones L1 L7 Ag3 and Ag11 before STI treatment. ND was not done. The asterisk indicates that there was relapse after 50 days and remain sensitive to 2.5 M STI 571.

These mutations conferred resistance of clonal cells to imatinib with T315I having the greatest protective effect against proliferation inhibition by high concentrations of the drug . Compared to parental cells more BCR ABL mutations emerged from these clones. The ability of these clones to develop resistance through BCR ABL kinase domain mutations indicates that a pre existing mutant cell originating from a patient is not required for resistance.

Development of different mutations from parental cells. The development of different mutations from parental cells was examined using the model system of the present invention. It was verified that the clonal cells did develop different mutations. L1 and Ag11 cells were plated on soft agar with 2.5 M imatinib and ten imatinib resistant colonies were isolated after three weeks. All resistant L1 colonies carried the E255K SEQ ID NO 3 mutation only and all resistant Ag11 colonies carried the T315I mutation SEQ ID NO 2 only indicating clone specific mutation patterns exist for resistance.

Whether the parental mutation type T315I SEQ ID NO 2 could be restored in clonal cells when re supplied with a culture environment with the mixture of clonal cells was determined. Clones L1 L7 or Ag3 respectively were mixed with an equal number of cells from a pool consisting of eight never relapse clones N pool . Identical mutation phenotypes were maintained for relapsed L1 L7 and Ag3 even after treatment with 2.5 or 5 M imatinib . Whether T315I mutation SEQ ID NO 2 dominates over other mutations for resistance development was also determined. Equal numbers of cells from clones L1 L7 Ag3 and Ag11 were mixed together and treated with imatinib. In recurrent cells from liquid culture both E255K SEQ ID NO 3 and T315I SEQ ID NO 2 mutations were readily detected which was consistent with the fact that L1 and Ag11 were fast relapse clones whereas L7 and Ag3 had slower relapse time courses indicating that T315I SEQ ID NO 2 is not superior to E255K SEQ ID NO 3 for imatinib resistance. Together these data indicate a certain plasticity of mutagenesis process in CML cells that may allow induction of different mutations in clonal cells. This plasticity is particularly evident in clone Ag3 which exhibits concentration dependent induction of T3151 SEQ ID NO 2 mutation at 10 M imatinib. Mutation phenotypes of some clonal cells are distinguished from that of parental cells and become clone dependent.

Induction of BCR ABL mutations by imatinib. Because blast crisis CML cells are genetically unstable over expression of BCR ABL alters the fidelity of DNA double strand break repair Slupianek et al. 2006 and increases expression and activity of error prone DNA polymerase which increases DNA replication error Canitrot et al. 1999 . Whether DNA replication error is a cause of rare mutations in clonal or parental cells during clonal expansion and cell propagation was assessed. BCR ABL mutation rates versus spontaneous mutation rates introduced by DNA replication error were determined. The latter was measured by spontaneous mutations on the HPRT hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl transferase gene that resulted in cells resistant to 6 thioguanine 6 TG . As shown in BCR ABL mutation rate was compared side by side with HPRT mutation rate in four relapse prone clones L1 L7 Ag3 and Ag11 and two never relapse clones L3 and Ag6 . HPRT showed relatively constant mutation rate 0.8 to 2.5 10 among all clones regardless of their ability to relapse whereas BCR ABL mutation rate was highly clone dependent from none clone L3 and Ag6 to 7 10. The stable HPRT mutation rate among clones reflects the nature of random mutations introduced by DNA replication error in these clones during clonal expansion which appears different from BCR ABL mutations that are highly clone dependent.

Treatment of CML cell lines K562 and BV173 with low doses of imatinib for a short time will specifically induce DNA damage in these cells but has no effect on non BCR ABL expressing leukemic or normal cells Czechowska et al. 2005 . Whether imatinib treatment increases HPRT mutation rate through elevating overall DNA damage level was determined. Since na ve CML cells cannot survive the prolonged culture required for a clonogenic assay recurrent cells derived from parental and clonal cells were used for treatment with 6 TG and 2.5 M. As shown in imatinib treatment did not alter overall DNA damage levels among these cells.

HPRT mutation types in 6 TG resistant cells were also examined. Loss of function for human HPRT has been well characterized with a broad mutation spectrum including large truncation deletion insertion and point mutations on codons Burkhart Schultz et al. 1996 Podlutsky et al. 1998 . From DNA sequencing analysis of 6 TG resistant soft agar colonies derived from clones Ag L1 and parental KCL 22 cells numerous HPRT truncation deletion insertion and point mutations were identified in all these colonies . This is consistent with previous observations Burkhart Schultz et al. 1996 Podlutsky et al. 1998 . The broad spectrum of HPRT mutations differs from the single mutations seen for the above described parental cells and clones indicating the possibility of a different mutagenesis pathway for BCR ABL on imatinib. The T315I mutation frequency in parental KCL 22 cells was stable in early passages p8 and p16 but declined significantly in the late passage p36 . Thus the relapse of late passage KCL 22 cells was delayed although the recurrent cells still harbored T315I mutation. In contrast HPRT mutation rates remained relatively constant even in the late passages of KCL 22 cells. This indicates that BCR ABL mutations are actively induced by imatinib treatment.

SIRT1 inhibitor sirtinol synergizes with STI 571 for apoptosis induction in CML cells. Expression of HIC1 in CML cell lines KCL 22 and K562 was examined by quantitative real time RT PCR for the major HIC1 transcript from its promoter 1a. The gene was silenced or down regulated in both cell lines compared to full HIC1 expression in WI 38 cells and silencing in MCF 7 cells . This is a consequence of promoter hypermethylation Chen et al. 2003 Issa et al. 1997 . Western blot analysis showed that SIRT1 was over expressed in both cell lines after HIC1 gene silencing .

Total cellular RNA was extracted with Trizol Invitrogen using a standard protocol. The first strand DNA was synthesized and HIC1expression was analyzed by quantitative real time RT PCR using a kit with SYBR Green label Invitrogen as per the manufacture s instruction on BioRad machine OPTICON. HIC1primers were used spanning introns 5 GGACGGACCAGCAGGACA 3 exon 1a SEQ ID NO 15 and 5 GCGCTGGTTGTTGAGCTG 3 exon 2 SEQ ID NO 16 . SIRT1 expression was analyzed by Western blot using 1 5000 diluted rabbit monoclonal SIRT1 antibody Epitomics . GAPDH was analyzed as a loading control with a rabbit antibody Trevigen at 1 5000 dilution.

Sirtinol inhibits SIRT1 and other sirtuin deacetylases with an ICabout 50 to 130 M Grozinger et al. 2001 Mai et al. 2005 Ota et al. 2005 . STI 571 treatment alone induced rapid apoptosis in K562 cells with ICof about 0.5 M while it had a mild effect on KCL 22 cells Mahon et al. 2000 . Treatment with 50 M sirtinol alone inhibited the growth of both cell lines and the combination of two drugs synergized their inhibitory effects A C . Sirtinol alone significantly induced annexin V positive apoptotic cells in both lines and when combined with STI 571 it induced more dramatic apoptosis than each individual drug D . Sirtinol and STI 571 both affected cell cycle of CML cells by reducing S G2 and increasing sub G1 population in KCL 22 cells while they rapidly increased sub G1 and apoptotic fraction in K562 cells . Cell cycle was analyzed by fixing cells with 70 ethanol and then stained with propidine iodine 50 g ml for 30 min at room temperature. Cell apoptosis was analyzed with annexin V kit BD Pharminggen as per the manufacturer s instruction.

Pharmacological inhibition of SIRT1 prevents CML relapse on STI 571. Using the CML acquired resistance model as described herein prevention of CML relapse on STI 571 was examined. Inhibition of SIRT1 with small molecule inhibitors prevented CML relapse on STI 571. KCL 22 cells were treated with STI 571 at 1 2.5 and 5 M in combination with various concentrations of sirtinol. At 50 M and above sirtinol effectively eliminated KCL 22 cells in two to three weeks and blocked relapse of KCL 22 cells on all three concentration of STI 571 in culture for two to three months and no viable cells were visible under microscope . As with STI 571 treatment with sirtinol alone resulted in relapse after two weeks . The combination of sirtinol and STI 571is a powerful therapeutic approach for inhibiting acquired resistance of CML.

Testing of additional SIRT1 inhibitors. Another sirtuin specific inhibitor splitomicin Bedalov et al. 2001 Hirao et al. 2003 was also tested for its ability to block relapse. Splitomicin is also a naphthol compound and structurally similar to sirtinol. Nicotinamide is a natural inhibitor of SIRT1 Avalos et al. 2005 Bitterman et al. 2002 . At 300 M splitomicin and 15 mM nicotinamide relapse of KCL 22 cells on 5 M STI 571 was effectively blocked during prolonged culture as shown in . In contrast to sirtinol splitomicin and nicotinamide did not by themselves induce significant cell death and did not dramatically enhance cell killing by STI 571 during the first two weeks . These results indicate that prevention of relapse does not require enhanced cell killing.

The T315I mutation is resistant to treatment with nilotinib Weisberg et al. 2005 as well as dasatinib Shah et al. 2004 . In murine cells transduced with wild type BCR ABL the T315I mutation is also commonly induced by these drugs von Bubnoff et al. 2006 von Bubnoff et al. 2005 . Using the KCL 22M cell line combined treatment with sirtinol and STI 571 was able to inhibit cell growth .

Effects of inhibitors of deacetylases and DNA methyltransferases DNMT on chemoresistance of BCR ABL positive leukemia. In vitro enhanced killing of CML cells occurs when imatinib is combined with DNMT inhibitor 5 aza 2 deoxycytidine AZA La Rosee et al. 2004 or with HDAC inhibitors Kawano et al. 2004 Yu et al. 2003 . Whether these inhibitors prevent CML relapse on STI 571 was examined. TSA at 1 M alone had little toxicity on KCL 22 cells but when combined with STI 571 massive apoptosis and dramatic cell killing was observed on all dosages of STI 571 and data not shown . After ten days cells on all dosages of STI 571 relapsed . These results indicate that an initial rapid and massive cell killing does not necessarily prevent relapse of CML on imatinib treatment. However the combination of AZA with STI 571 while killing cells more slowly than TSA did successfully block relapse on 2.5 and 5 M . When AZA TSA and STI 571 were all combined initial rapid cell death occurred due to the presence of TSA and relapse was blocked on 2.5 and 5 M of imatinib due to the presence of AZA . TSA and AZA alone or in combination could not reactivate HIC1 expression or reduce SIRT1 level despite their effects on KCL 22 cells. This is in contrast to HIC1reactivation by these drugs in carcinoma cells Narayan et al. 2003 Rathi et al. 2003 indicating that hypermethylated HIC1promoter is more difficult to reactivate in CML cells. For KCL 22M cells TSA had no effect on cell growth whereas 1 M AZA inhibited its growth but did not promote significant cell death. The combination of 1 M AZA with 50 M sirtinol induced partial cell death .

Using the acquired resistance model of the invention the effects of sirtinol and TSA was further investigated using clonal cells. These clones of KCL 22 cells develop acquired resistance to imatinib through different mutations in three clones E255K SEQ ID NO 3 for clone L1 Y253H SEQ ID NO 4 for clone L7 and T315I SEQ ID NO 2 for clone Ag11 and non mutation mechanism in clone Ag3 Yuan et al. 2008 . As shown in the combination of sirtinol with 2.5 M imatinib blocked relapse in all four clones in contrast all clones relapsed on the combination of TSA with imatinib. Clone Ag3 developed resistance through non BCR ABL mutation mechanism by 2.5 M imatinib alone but developed resistance through T315I mutation SEQ ID NO 2 upon the combined imatinib and TSA treatment. These data suggest that HDAC inhibitors transiently provide enhancement of cell killing but promote genetic mutations of BCR ABL and acquired resistance.

Resistance in acute lymphocytic leukemia. The ability of sirtinol and imatinib to block resistance related to BCR ABL mutations and non mutants was determined in acute lymphocytic leukemia ALL cells. In humans adult BCR ABL bearing ALL is highly chemoresistant and treatments are rarely successful resulting in a poor survival rate ranging from 

Sirtinol overcomes growth factor induced transient resistance in CML cells. With the exception of KCL 22 cells no other CML cell lines are known to survive 1 M STI 571 treatment in serum containing culture. Whether serum free medium supplied with select growth factors provides a better culture environment for developing CML chemoresistance was determined. Serum free SF medium with insulin transferring epidermal growth factor EGF and high density lipoprotein HDL was used. SF medium with the basic supplements 5 g ml insulin and 5 g ml transferrin was sufficient to support growth of both K562 cells and KCL 22 cells. Pre incubation of K562 cells in SF medium with basic supplements for two days made K562 cells as refractory as KCL 22 cells for treatment with 1 M STI 571 C . Sirtinol alone or in combination with STI 571 resulted in rapid killing of both K562 and KCL 22 cells and no relapse over prolonged culture. Sirtinol is able to overcome CML resistance in SF culture. Addition of basic supplements to routine serum media also provided K562 cells transient resistance to treatment with 1 M STI 571 which lasted up to two days. Again treatment with 50 M sirtinol abolished this transient resistance .

Transient resistance conferred by insulin and transferrin supplement is of interest as insulin receptor is over expressed in about 90 primary CML cells. The key insulin downstream target phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase PI3K is required for BCR ABL mediated transformation and inhibition of PI3K Akt mTor pathway has been explored to overcome CML chemoresistance. SIRT1 is a key gene for regulating insulin secretion and directly regulates Akt downstream target FOXO proteins through deacetylation. Therefore the effect of insulin itself for transient resistance to imatinib and the response of sirtinol treatment was examined. The addition of a broad range of concentrations of insulin from 1 ng ml to 5 g ml provided about equal transient resistance of K562 to the treatment with 1 M STI 571 and again sirtinol alone or in combination with STI 571 abolished this transient resistance . Together these data show that activation of insulin pathway is sufficient to render CML cells transient resistance in vitro and it can be inhibited by SIRT1 inhibition.

SIRT1 is essential for CML chemoresistance. The effects of SIRT1 stable knockdown on blockage of CML relapse by SIRT1 inhibitors was determined. SIRT1 shRNAs were designed as described previously Reynolds et al. 2004 . The first SIRT1 shRNA Sh1 was subcloned into a lentiviral vector pSicoR Ventura et al. 2004 which contains an expression cassette for green fluorescent protein GFP . A scrambled shRNA was subcloned into the vector as a mock control. The VSV G G protein of vesicular stomatitis virus pseudotyped lentiviral vectors were produced using a four plasmid transfection system as described Kowolik et al. 2003 . These vectors transduced KCL 22 and K562 cells with high efficiency and significant SIRT1 knockdown was observed in both cell lines . Mock or SIRT1 knockdown cells were enriched by fluorescent activated cell sorting FACS for GFP expression. No significant growth inhibition by SIRT1 knockdown on CML cells was observed. Treatment with imatinib resulted in relapse of the mock knockdown KCL 22 cells after two weeks. The SIRT1 knockdown showed significantly delayed or abolished relapse with relapse ranging from complete blockage during the two month culture to delay by 27 days . SIRT1 expression in the relapsed SIRT1 knockdown cells was restored to the same level as that in the mock knockdown cells indicating that relapse in the SIRT1 Sh1 knockdown cells is mediated by those cells which contain little SIRT1 knockdown in the original knockdown pool .

The heterogeneity of SIRT1 knockdown in the pooled population was confirmed using limiting dilution to clone individual SIRT1 knockdown and mock knockdown cells. About one third of SIRT1 knockdown clones did not have significant SIRT1 knockdown while SIRT1 level in mock knockdown clones remained unchanged.

Additional SIRT1 knockdown was also generated using different shRNA targets. Sh2 was cloned into a vector similar to pSicoR CMV GFP with a PKG puro expression cassette instead of CMV GFP cassette . This allows for enrichment of transduced cells using puromycin selection. SIRT1 Sh2 exhibited a higher knockdown efficiency than Sh1 . The mock knockdown KCL 22 cells relapsed after two weeks but SIRT1 Sh2 knockdown completely blocked the relapse for two months . Whether the vector sequence affects shRNA function was also assessed. SIRT1 Sh1 was subcloned into pSicoR PGK puro vector and found to function similarly to Sh1 in pSicoR CMV GFP vector only able to delay the relapse. This indicates that it is the level of knockdown but not the type of vector used that affects resistance. SIRT1 knockdown using both Sh1 and Sh2 resulted in a further decreased SIRT1 level completely blocking relapse of KCL 22 cells for two months . This indicates that SIRT1 is a gene that regulates CML acquired resistance by promoting BCR ABL mutagenesis during imatinib treatment.

SIRT1 promotes genetic instability and oncogenic evolution in cancer. The role of SIRT1 in regulating de novo DNA damage in CML cells was investigated. SIRT1 and mock knockdown KCL 22 cells were treated with hypoxanthine aminopterin thymidine HAT to remove preexisting HPRT mutation followed by treatment with camptothecin CPT to induce DNA damage. Cells were then analyzed for survival proliferation and HPRT mutations. SIRT1 Sh1 knockdown cells exhibited two fold less survival over time than mock cells . HPRT mutation rate in SIRT1 knockdown cells was decreased by 64 fold . Similar results were obtained by SIRT1 Sh2 knockdown. The sharp reduction in de novo HPRT mutation rate observed in SIRT1 knockdown cells is a novel finding. These results indicate that SIRT1 is a key protein promoting genetic instability and the evolution of oncogenes to resist and survive drug therapy and overcome DNA damage .

Molecular basis of differential effects of sirtinol and TSA on CML chemoresistance. Sirtinol inhibits NAD dependent class III histone deacetylases sirtuin family while TSA inhibits class I and II histone deacetylases HDACs . The sirtuin family deacetylases are structurally unrelated to HDACs. Both SIRT1 and HDACs are critically involved in regulating gene transcription and post translational deacetylation of numerous proteins. However two inhibitors exhibit sharply different outcomes on blocking KCL 22 relapse on STI 571. Gene expression microarray approach was used to search for differential transcriptional regulation and to use a proteomic approach to search for differential protein acetylation profiles.

The effects of these inhibitors on global gene transcription and global protein acetylation is analyzed. Total RNA is extracted from four groups of KCL 22 cells untreated treated with STI 571 alone treated with STI 571 and sirtinol and treated with STI 571 and TSA at three time points 2 4 and 8 days before relapse occurs. Each sample is collected in triplicate. Samples are then analyzed using Affymetrix expression arrays followed by statistical analyses of gene expression changes among different groups. Relevant genes are identified and RT PCR or Western blot is used to confirm their expression. The functional significance of new genes targets in CML chemoresistance is further studied by knockdown in KCL 22 cells similar to that described for SIRT1.

Total cell lysate is extracted from the four groups of KCL 22 cells at three time points as described for the expression array. Lysates are immunoprecipitated with anti acetylated lysine antibody and bound proteins are eluted for gel electrophoresis. The gel is stained with Coomassie and differential bands are sliced for mass spectrum analysis. Once key acetylation targets are identified they are verified individually by immunoprecipitation and Western blot. The following antibodies for protein analysis by Western blot are used rabbit monoclonal anti SIRT1 1 5000 Epitomics rabbit polyclonal anti PGC 1 1 1000 Chemicon and anti GAPDH 1 5000 Trevigen .

The potential downstream targets of SIRT1 that are involved in controlling the CML cell resistance are determined. p53 is a key downstream target of SIRT1 for apoptotic control in solid tumors. However p53 is mutated in both KCL 22 and K562 cells indicating that other SIRT1 targets might be involved. Involvement of another SIRT1 target peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma coactivator 1 alpha PGC 1 for induction of BCR ABL mutations through regulating reactive oxygen species ROS is examined. The ROS production is dramatically increased in blast crisis CML which results in accumulation of DNA damage product 7 8 dihydro 8 oxo 2 deoxyguanosine 8 oxoG . Over expression of BCR ABL in murine cells induces ROS production DNA damage and BCR ABL mutations. However cellular ABL plays an important role in cellular DNA damage repair and treatment with STI 571 will also inhibit ABL and inactivate cellular DNA repair system. Most of the cellular ROS is produced by electron transport chain of active mitochondrial metabolism. PGC 1 is a master activator for mitochodrial biogenesis and respiration that promotes ROS production. SIRT1 plays a critical role in this regulation by deacetylating PGC 1 and thus activating its function. STI 571 treatment inhibits BCR ABL function and cell growth but simultaneously reduces ability of cellular DNA damage repair and results in T315I mutation unless SIRT1 is inactivated by sirtinol or PGC 1 is inactivated.

Specific roles of BCR ABL and SIRT1 for resistance of T315I mutant CML. Next examined was whether mutant BCR ABL remains a major factor for resistance by using shRNA to knockdown BCR ABL in KCL 22M cells and studying its effect on growth and apoptosis in the presence and absence of SIRT1 knockdown. KCL 22 cells express e13a2 or b2a2 splice variant of p210 BCR ABL which can be knocked down with siRNAs designed against the fusion site. Several sets of shRNA were designed and tested against this region and make lentiviral vectors to knockdown BCR ABL in KCL 22M with similar strategies used for SIRT1 knockdown. The efficiency of knockdown by Western blot was monitored with an antibody recognizing both c ABL and BCR ABL. shRNA knocks down BCR ABL but not c ABL. The effects of BCR ABL knockdown on growth and apoptosis of KCL 22M cells were then determined in the presence or absence of SIRT1 shRNA knockdown.

Roles of Aurora A for resistance of T315I mutant CML. Aurora kinases are evolutionarily conserved family of serine threonine kinases with three homologous genes Aurora A B and C in mammals. Aurora A is essential for bipolar spindle assembly during mitosis and Aurora B ensures proper chromosome attachment to the mitotic spindle while Aurora C is involved in regulation of cilia and flagella. Aurora A is over expressed in various types of human cancer and its gene amplification overrides the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint results in defective spindle formation and multinucleation and increases cellular resistance to chemotherapeutic agent paclitaxel. Selective inhibitors of Aurora kinases have been developed for treatment of various cancers.

The increase of G2 M cell number enlarged cell size and bizarre morphology of KCL 22M cells show potential defects in cell mitosis which will deregulate Aurora kinases in these cells. Using Western blot it was found that the overall level of Aurora B in KCL 22 and KCL 22M cells are similar but Aurora A was abnormally stabilized in KCL 22M cells that might account for morphological and cell cycle changes in these cells . It has been found that the Aurora kinase inhibitor VX 680 potently inhibits T315I BCR ABL through a different structural mechanism from STI 571. Three CML patients with T315I mutation responded to VX 680 treatment indicating that clinical responses of CML patients with T315I can be enhanced with inhibition of Aurora kinases mutant BCR ABL or both. Aurora kinase plays a role in the resistance of T315I mutation in CML cells. VX 680 is a useful approach for eradicating mutant cells. Aurora A is abnormally stabilized in KCL 22M cells that have been treated with STI 571 but is degraded by treatment with SIRT1 inhibitor sirtinol . Abnormal stabilization of Aurora A can be caused by mutations of its DNA sequences for destruction boxes A and D due to the pressure imposed by STI 571 treatment. Where inhibition of BCR ABL alone is insufficient to eradicate T315I BCR ABL mutant cells combination treatment with SIRT1 inhibitors along with a dual BCR ABL and Aurora inhibitor such as VX 680 is useful for eradicating the resistant cells.

Whether stabilization of Aurora A in KCL 22M cells might be due to alterations of its destruction signals is determined. Aurora A is destructed after mitotic exit through ubiquibin ligase which is regulated by two conserved short amino acid sequences an N terminal A box and a C terminal D box and mutations of these sequences stabilize Aurora A. Besides phosphorylation of serine S51 in the A box of human Aurora A or S53 in also inhibits its destruction. There is structural similarity of kinase domains of BCR ABL and Aurora and cross reactivity of their inhibitors. These results show that Aurora A is involved in resistance of KCL 22M cells.

The effects of Aurora A knockdown for KCL 22M cells was also determined. Aurora A shRNAs was designed and tested. The knockdown of Aurora A was confirmed by Western blot. Whether this knockdown reduces G2 M cell population and restores normal cell morphology in KCL 22M cells by flow cytometry and whether it promotes apoptosis or inhibits growth of KCL 22M cells is also assessed.

To determine the role of Aurora A over expression in CML chemoresistance Aurora A is expressed with an exogenous promoter in KCL 22 cells to examine whether it accelerated resistance and in STI 571 sensitive K562 cells to examine whether it helped these cells to develop resistance. Wild type and or mutant Aurora A is used depending on the sequencing results from the first experiment. Full length cDNA of Aurora A was PCR amplified and subcloned into an expression cassette with Simian virus 40 SV40 promoter in a lentiviral vector carrying CMV GFP which is similar to the vector used for shRNA packaging. When a mutant is needed site directed mutagenesis is performed in the subcloned Aurora A vector. Recombinant viruses are then produced and used to infect KCL 22 or K 562 cells and over expression of Aurora A is verified by Western blot. Infected cells are isolated by FACS sorting for GFP expression and if necessary cloning of individual cells. Resistance in these cells was measured by rate of mutation time for relapse and concentrations of STI571 needed to repress cell growth and induce apoptosis.

Knockdown of BCR ABL has a greater impact on KCL 22 cells than KCL 22M cells and other gene changes such as Aurora A also have important roles in resistance of KCL 22M cells. Over expression of Aurora A can render KCL 22 cells more resistant to STI 571 treatment and may develop resistant cells even without genetic mutations and persistent Aurora A may also render K 562 cells resistant to 1 M STI 571 treatment. Simultaneous knockdown of BCR ABL and Aurora A can have a more significant impact than individual knockdown on cell growth and apoptosis of KCL 22M cells. Treatment with VX 680 kills KCL 22M and KCL 22 cells efficiently as it inhibits both Aurora kinases and wild type or T315I BCR ABL.

SIRT1 is required for STI 571 resistance in mouse models and in primary human CML cells. It is examined whether the mechanisms that SIRT1 inhibition enhances CML apoptosis and prevents relapse on STI 571 in vitro applies to in vivo treatment. First a xenograft model of human CML cells was used in non obese diabetic severe combined immunodeficient NOD SCID mice and examined whether the combined treatment with sirtinol and STI 571 eliminates KCL 22 cells in recipient mice and prolongs their survival without relapse. Also examined was another CML cell line KU 812 for xenograft study. KU 812 is very sensitive to STI 571 in vitro but in vivo one third of mice with KU 812 xenograft relapse on STI 571 treatment after 48 to 60 days. It is determined whether the combination of STI 571 and sirtinol blocks this relapse. Second murine bone marrow retroviral transduction and transplantation model was used to define specific roles of SIRT1 in vivo for BCR ABL transformation and STI 571 resistance with SIRT1 knockout mice. Many hallmarks of human CML are faithfully reproduced in BALB c mouse models employing retroviral transduction of bone marrow cells with P210 BCR ABL followed by transplantation to syngeneic recipients. Mice develop CML like myeloproliferative disease characterized by massive extramedullary hematopoiesis in spleen liver and bone marrow with striking peripheral blood granulocytosis and die within 3 4 weeks after transplantation. Treatment with STI 571 prolongs survival in 80 of mice while the rest exhibit primary resistance and no mice can be cured by the treatment. It is examined whether homozygous SIRT1 knockout inhibits development of myeloproliferative disease in this model or significantly enhances the effects of STI 571 treatment to inhibit resistance and even cure the disease and whether combination of sirtinol and STI 571 will significantly improve treatment of the disease generated with wild type mouse bone marrow. In vitro colony forming unit CFU assay is used to determine whether combination of sirtinol with STI 571 will suppress blast forming unit erythroid BFU E and CFU granulocyte monocyte CFU GM colonies from late phase CML patients more efficiently than STI 571 itself.

Since no animal studies have been conducted with sirtinol before the pharmacokinetics of the compound was first determined. Female NOD SCID mice 6 to 8 weeks of age were given a single dose of sirtinol intraperitoneally i.p. and at seven time points namely 0.5 1 2 4 6 8 and 24 hours mice are sacrificed and blood bone marrow and liver are collected for HPLC MS analysis.

Second the effects of the combination of sirtinol and STI 571 for treatment of xenografted CML cells were determined. Induction of tumors by KCL 22 cells in NOD SCID mice was tested. Mice were irradiated with 270 Rads and 4 to 6 hours later transplanted with 3 million cells in phosphate buffered saline each through tail vein. Of 12 recipients one died within one week likely due to infection and the other 11 recipients developed tumors between 3 to 5 weeks. Most of mice exhibited visible tumors on neck eye and abdomen. Necropsy and histopathological examination revealed that these solid tumors were derived from lymph nodes throughout the body with the highest frequency in axillary pancreatic and renal nodes and tumors frequently infiltrated kidney eye and muscle . A significant number of human cells were not detected in peripheral blood by flow cytometric analysis of CD45 cells in all 11 mice before they were sacrificed for tumor burden. Microscopically visible tumors were not found in the spleen liver and lung.

To facilitate non invasive assessment of in vivo anti tumor activity of drugs KCL 22 cells stably expressing firefly luciferase were generated. Cells were examined for their responses for STI 571 and sirtinol treatment to ensure that luciferase expression does not alter effects of drugs. Luciferase expressing KCL 22 cells are transplanted into NOD SCID mice. Mice with established tumors by luciferase imaging are divided into 4 groups with 5 mice each group 1 vehicle control group 2 oral administration of STI 571 twice daily with a morning dose of 50 mg kg and an evening dose of 100 mg kg group 3 single i.p. injection of sirtinol with a dose producing stable plasma concentration of at least 50 M group 4 combination of STI 571 and sirtinol. Mice were imaged 5 to 7 days after treatment and total body bioluminescence was collected to quantify the changes of tumor progression and regression.

Acquired resistance through secondary mutations on the targeted oncogenes are also predominant in other cancers such as c Kit receptor and the platelet derived growth factor receptor PDGFR in gastrointestinal stromal tumors and epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR in non small cell lung cancer NSCLC . SIRT1 in NSCLC resistance with and without secondary mutations would be assessed in cell lines H3255 and H1650. The H3255 line carries activating mutation L858R and the H1650 cells carry activating deletion E746 A750 on the EGFR kinase domain which render these cells sensitive to treatment with EGFR inhibitors gefitinib and erlotinib. Both cell lines can relapse upon gefitinib treatment and H3255 cells develop resistance with the secondary T790M mutation Engelman et al. 2006. Allelic dilution obscures detection of a biologically significant resistance mutation in EGFR amplified lung cancer. J Clin Invest 116 2695 2706 whereas H1650 cells develop resistance through mechanisms other than secondary mutations Kwak et al. 2005. Irreversible inhibitors of the EGF receptor may circumvent acquired resistance to gefitinib. Proc Nat Acad Sci U S A 102 7665 7670. A previous H1650 resistance model was derived by exposing cells directly to 20 M gefitinib and a H3255 model was derived by exposing cells to gradually increasing concentrations of gefitinib starting with 40 nM for a few months. For patients receiving gefitinib 250 mg d the mean steady state plasma concentration of the drug ranges from 0.4 to 1.4 M and higher concentrations of gefitinib result in off target effects and toxicity Cohen et al. 2004. United States Food and Drug Administration Drug Approval summary Gefitinib ZD1839 Iressa tablets. Clin Cancer Res 10 1212 1218 Baselga et al. 2002. Phase I safety pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic trial of ZD1839 a selective oral epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor in patients with five selected solid tumor types. J Clin Oncol 20 4292 4302. . These previous methods did not use therapeutically effective concentrations of gefitinib. The NSCLC model provided herein employs approaches as those used in the described CML model studies.

NSCLC resistant models. 2.5 10cells of H3255 or H1650 per well are seeded in 6 well plates. Multiple wells of each cell line are plated to allow sampling of cells at different time points. After overnight seeding cells are treated with 1 M gefitinib or a therapeutically effective dose. The drug is maintained in the culture until cells relapse and re grow as described for the CML studies. Fresh medium is supplied to restore the original volume during the prolonged culture as needed. Relative cell numbers are measured at various time points by staining cells with crystal violet and quantifying cell mass with Infrared Imaging System.

The relapsed cells are expanded and tested for their resistance to gefitinib as compared to parental cells. Total RNA is extracted for synthesis of cDNA and sequencing of EGFR kinase domain exons 18 24 and genomic DNA is extracted for direct sequencing to verify mutations detected by cDNA sequencing using primers described previously Pao et al. PNAS 101 13306 13311 2004 . Because H3255 harbors more than 40 copies of EGFR that results in allelic dilution of the T790M mutation a mutant enriched PCR sequencing assay is used to detect the mutation. Inukai et al. Cancer Res 66 7854 7858 2006 . Briefly after round one of amplification of both wild type and mutant alleles the wild type PCR products are selectively cleaved by restriction enzyme BstUI which allows second round preferential amplification of the mutant allele for sequencing. The mutant enriched PCR sequencing assay can detect one mutant allele among 1000 copies of wild type alleles and thus is sensitive enough for analysis of T790M mutation in H3255 cells. Using the above described method genetic mutants in the NSCLC acquired resistant cells are identified.

Effects of SIRT1 inhibition on NSCLC resistance. SIRT1 expression levels in lung cancer cells are assessed. SIRT1 protein level was previously found increased in lung cancer cell lines H460 and H209 that bear wild type EGFR. SIRT1 expression in H3255 and H1650 cells before and after relapse as compared to normal human lung lysates will be analyzed by Western blot. Combination treatment of sirtinol at various concentrations with 1 gefitinib may enhance apoptosis and inhibit growth of H3255 and H1650 cells. The apoptosis is analyzed by TUNEL staining and growth inhibition analyzed by crystal violet staining described above. The combination of the two drugs to block relapse of these two cell lines will be examined for the prolonged culture up to two months. Third mock and SIRT1 knockdown are generated in H3255 and H1650 NSCLC cells using lentiviral shRNA vectors developed for CML resistance studies as described above. The knockdown of SIRT1 is confirmed by

Western blotting. Whether SIRT1 knockdown delays or blocks relapse of NSCLC cells upon gefitinib treatmentis examined.

Methods H3255 cell line is obtained from National Cancer Institute and H1650 cell line from American Type Culture Collection ATCC . Gefitinib is obtained from AstraZeneca or purchased from Euroasia Pharmaceuticals and sirtinol will be purchased from Sigma. For resistance assay 2.5 10H3255 or H1650 cells are seeded per well in 6 well plates overnight and treat with drugs in 3 ml culture medium each. Cells are maintained in culture without medium changes. Relative cell numbers are analyzed over time in triplicate wells. Cells are fixed with 4 formaldehyde stained with 0.1 crystal violet and quantified by using Odyssey Infrared Imaging System LI COR Biosciences . When relapse occurs emerging cells reach confluence rapidly and are expanded into larger culture dishes. If the H3255 cells are unable to survive the applied dosage of gefitinib then a lower therapeutic dose is used such as 0.4 M or the lowest therapeutically effective dose.

Total RNA and DNA are isolated using standard protocols. For sequencing the EGFR kinase domain the EGFR kinase domain is amplified by RT PCR of total RNA or by PCR of genomic DNA with a high fidelity DNA polymerase Strategene using primers previously described Pao et al. 2004 . PCR products are cloned into the pCR2.1 vector using TOPO TA Cloning kit Invitrogen . At least ten clones for each treatment are sequenced. For mutant enriched PCR sequencing of T790M mutation the EGFR exon 20 is amplified using primers described Inukai et al. 2006 . After digestion of the first round PCR product with BstUI NEB the second round nested PCR is performed and the PCR products are sequenced directly.

For production of lentiviral vectors four million 293T cells are co transfected with 15 g of the vector 15 g of gag pol 5 g of VSV G and 5 g of Rev plasmids by the method of calcium phosphate co precipitation Kowolik C. M. P. Yam Y. Yu and J. K. Yee. 2003. HIV vector production mediated by Rev protein transduction. 8 324 331 . The supernatant is collected at 24 hours and 36 hours after transfection. The supernatants are pooled and passed through a 0.45 um filter concentrated by ultracentrifugation. To determine vector titer 1 10293T cells are seeded in a six well plate in the presence of 4 mg ml polybrene and cells are transduced for 5 hours and analyzed by FACS for GFP expression within 24 hours.

For protein analysis by Western blot the following antibodies are used rabbit monoclonal anti SIRT1 1 5000 Epitomics and anti GAPDH 1 5000 Trevigen . Apoptosis analysis was performed using a TMR red In situ Cell Death Detection Kit Roche as per manufacturer s protocol. Normal human lung lysate are purchased from ProSci.

Using the above procedures resistance models may be reproduced for H1650 cells. In addition a faster relapse for H3255 cells with T790M mutation may be obtained e.g. in two weeks . Inhibition of SIRT1 by sirtinol or by shRNA may have a synergistic or additive effect with gefitinib for inducing apoptosis and suppressing growth. The relapse normally obtained through mutation or non mutation mechanisms will be blocked or delayed.

The resistance models may be also reproduced for other cancer cell lines such as for example another NSCLC cell line PC 9 that also relapses on gefitinib treatment.

Cell culture and drugs. CML cell lines KCL 22 and K562 were purchased from German Collection of Cell Cultures Braunschweig Germany and grown in RPMI 1640 medium with 10 fetal bovine serum Hyclone . STI 571 was provided by Novartis Basel Switzerland 6 thioguanine 6 TG was purchased from Sigma and 2.5 g ml final concentration was used for selection. Sirtinol splitomicin nicotinamide trichostatin A 5 aza 2 deoxycytidine and HAT were purchased from Sigma. For serum free culture basic supplements ITS 1 1884 EGF and HDL were purchased from Sigma and insulin from Roche.

5 10KCL 22 or K562 cells in 1 ml medium per well in 24 well plates and treated with various combinations of drugs. Cells were maintained in these cultures without changing medium. Aliquots of cells at specified time points were removed and cell numbers were counted on a hematocytometer. Cell viability was assessed by trypan blue exclusion whenever necessary. Typically after three to five weeks in culture when their medium volume significantly decreased fresh drug free medium was supplied to the cells.

Soft agar colony formation assay. A standard two layer soft agar culture was performed with a bottom layer of 0.7 agarose and top layer of 0.35 agarose. Five hundred cells per well in 6 well plates were seeded with warm top agar and were incubated for three weeks. Plates were then stained with 0.005 Crystal Violet for 1 hour and colonies were scored with aid of microscope. For resistance assay in soft agar one million cells were added per well and imatinib or 6 TG added to both top and bottom agar to their final concentrations. To clone or recover soft agar colonies for further analysis individual colonies were plucked and expanded in liquid culture.

Cell cycle cell proliferation and apoptosis analysis Cell cycle was analyzed by fixing cells with 70 ethanol and then staining with propidine iodine 50 g ml for 30 min at room temperature. Cell proliferation was analyzed using a XTT Cell Proliferation kit Roche and apoptosis was analyzed with annexin V kit BD Pharmingen as per the manufacturer s instruction.

The ABL kinase domain SEQ ID NO 17 was amplified by RT PCR of total RNA or by PCR of genomic DNA with a high fidelity DNA polymerase Strategene using primers previously described Gorre et al. 2001 . PCR products were cloned into the pCR2.1 vector using TOPO TA Cloning kit Invitrogen . At least ten clones for each treatment were sequenced. For analysis of genomic DNA mutations PCR products were directly sequenced without subcloning. For HPRT sequencing the codon sequence was amplified by RT PCR using primers previously described Osterholm et al. 1995 . PCR products were purified with a PCR product clean up kit Qiagen and sequenced directly.

GAPDH ref NT 009759.15 Hs12 9916 6497433 6502281 Homo sapiens chromosome 12 genomic contig reference assembly 

HIC1 ref NT 010718.15 Hs17 10875 1561637 1565694 Homo sapiens chromosome 17 genomic contig reference assembly 

Cells were counted and diluted to 5 cells per ml and seeded onto 96 well plate with 100 l or 0.5 cell per well. Individual cell seeding was then confirmed by microscopy and single cell clones were grown and expanded for further analysis.

BCR ABL expression and phosphorylation were directly analyzed by Western blot using anti c ABL monoclonal antibody BD Pharmingen and anti phospho tyrosine antibody Upstate Biotechnology . To validate BCR ABL phosphorylation BCR ABL from 500 g of total cell lysate of KCL 22 cells was isolated with 2 g of anti c ABL and 100 l of 50 slurry of protein A agarose beads Upstate . The phosphorylation was detected by Western blot with tyrosine phosphorylation antibody. GAPDH was analyzed as a loading control using a rabbit antibody Trevigen at 1 5000 dilution.

Gene Expression Analysis. Total cellular RNA with Trizol Invitrogen using a standard protocol. First strand DNA was synthesized and HIC1expression by quantitative real time RT PCR using a kit with SYBR Green label Invitrogen as per the manufacture s instruction on a BioRad machine OPTICON. The following are the HIC1primers spanning introns 5 GGACGGACCAGCAGGACA 3 exon 1a SEQ ID NO 15 and 5 GCGCTGGTTGTTGAGCTG 3 Exon 2 SEQ ID NO 16 . SIRT1 expression was analyzed by Western blot using 1 5000 diluted rabbit monoclonal SIRT1 antibody Epitomics . Controls used were GAPDH or actin as loading controls with rabbit anti GAPDH Trevigen or anti actin Sigma at 1 5000 dilution.

Production of lentiviral vectors Lentiviral vectors were produced as previously described Kowolik et al. 2003 . In brief four million 293T cells are co transfected with 15 g of the vector 15 mg of gag pol 5 g of VSV G and 5 g of Rev plasmids by the method of calcium phosphate coprecipitation. The supernatant is collected at 24 hours and 36 hours after transfection. The supernatants are pooled and passed through a 0.45 m filter concentrated by ultracentrifugation. To determine vector titer we seed 1 10293T cells in a six well plate in the presence of 4 g ml polybrene and cells are transduced for 5 hours and analyzed by FACS for GFP expression within 24 hours.

DNA damage assay. The assay was performed as described Xiao et al. 2003 . KCL 22 cells were pre selected for four days in HAT medium to remove pre existing HPRT mutations. The efficiency of HAT selection was confirmed by plating these cells on soft agar with 2.5 g ml 6 thioguanine which produced zero colony. HAT selected cells were then treated with 0.5 M CPT for 1 hour and used for soft agar clonogenic assay with 6 thioguanine. The rest of HAT selected cells were cultured in medium without selection. Soft agar colonies were scored after three weeks as described Yuan et al. 2008 .

Anand S. S. Penrhhyn Lowe and A. R. Venkitaraman. 2003. AURORA A amplification overrides the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint inducing resistance to Taxol. Cancer Cell 3 51 62.

Avalos J. L. Bever K. M. and Wolberger C. 2005 . Mechanism of sirtuin inhibition by nicotinamide altering the NAD cosubstrate specificity of a Sir2 enzyme. Mol Cell 17 855 868.

Baselga J. D. Rischin M. Ranson H. Calvert E. Raymond D. G. Kieback S. B. Kaye L. Gianni A. Harris T. Bjork S. D. Averbuch A. Feyereislova H. Swaisland F. Rojo and J. Albanell. 2002. Phase I safety pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic trial of ZD1839 a selective oral epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor in patients with five selected solid tumor types. J Clin Oncol 20 4292 4302.

Bassan R. Gatta G. Tondini C. and Willemze R. 2004 . Adult acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. Crit. Rev Oncol Hematol 50 223 261.

Baur J. A. K. J. Pearson N. L. Price H. A. Jamieson C. Lerin A. Kalra V. V. Prabhu J. S. Allard G. Lopez Lluch K. Lewis P. J. Pistell S. Poosala K. G. Becker O. Boss D. Gwinn M. Wang S. Ramaswamy K. W. Fishbein R. G. Spencer E. G. Lakatta D. Le Couteur R. J. Shaw P. Navas P. Puigserver D. K. Ingram R. de Cabo and D. A. Sinclair. 2006. Resveratrol improves health and survival of mice on a high calorie diet. Nature 444 337 342.

Bedalov A. T. Gatbonton W. P. Irvine D. E. Gottschling and J. A. Simon. 2001. Identification of a small molecule inhibitor of Sir2p. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98 15113 15118.

Bi S. T. Hughes J. Bungey A. Chase P. de Fabritiis and J. M. Goldman. 1992. p53 in chronic myeloid leukemia cell lines. Leukemia 6 839 842.

Bitterman K. J. R. M. Anderson H. Y. Cohen M. Latorre Esteves and D. A. Sinclair. 2002. Inhibition of silencing and accelerated aging by nicotinamide a putative negative regulator of yeast sir2 and human SIRT1. J Biol Chem 277 45099 45107.

Bordone L. Motta M. C. Picard F. Robinson A. Jhala U.S. Apfeld J. McDonagh T. Lemieux M. McBurney M. Szilvasi A. et al. 2006 . Sirt1 regulates insulin secretion by repressing UCP2 in pancreatic beta cells. PLoS Biol 4 e31.

Branford S. Z. Rudzki S. Walsh A. Grigg C. Arthur K. Taylor R. Herrmann K. P. Lynch and T. P. Hughes. 2002. High frequency of point mutations clustered within the adenosine triphosphate binding region of BCR ABL in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia or Ph positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia who develop imatinib STI571 resistance. Blood 99 3472 3475.

Brunet A. Sweeney L. B. Sturgill J. F. Chua K. F. Greer P. L. Lin Y. Tran H. Ross S. E. Mostoslaysky R. Cohen H. Y. et al. 2004 . Stress dependent regulation of FOXO transcription factors by the SIRT1 deacetylase. Science 303 2011 2015.

Burchert A. Wang Y. Cai D. von Bubnoff N. Paschka P. Muller Brusselbach S. Ottmann O. G. Duyster J. Hochhaus A. and Neubauer A. 2005 . Compensatory PI3 kinase Akt mTor activation regulates imatinib resistance development. Leukemia 19 1774 1782.

Burkhart Schultz K. J. Thompson C. L. and Jones I. M. 1996 . Spectrum of somatic mutation at the hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase hprt gene of healthy people. Carcinogenesis 17 1871 1883.

Canitrot Y. Lautier D. Laurent G. Frechet M. Ahmed A. Turhan A. G. Salles B. Cazaux C. and Hoffmann J. S. 1999 . Mutator phenotype of BCR ABL transfected Ba F3 cell lines and its association with enhanced expression of DNA polymerase beta. Oncogene 18 2676 2680.

Carter M. G. M. A. Johns X. Zeng L. Zhou M. C. Zink J. L. Mankowski D. M. Donovan and S. B. Baylin. 2000. Mice deficient in the candidate tumor suppressor gene Hic1 exhibit developmental defects of structures affected in the Miller Dieker syndrome. Hum Mol Genet. 9 413 419.

Carter T. A. L. M. Wodicka N. P. Shah A. M. Velasco M. A. Fabian D. K. Treiber Z. V. Milanov C. E. Atteridge W. H. Biggs 3rd P. T. Edeen M. Floyd J. M. Ford R. M. Grotzfeld S. Herrgard D. E. Insko S. A. Mehta H. K. Patel W. Pao C. L. Sawyers H. Varmus P. P. Zarrinkar and D. J. Lockhart. 2005. Inhibition of drug resistant mutants of ABL KIT and EGF receptor kinases. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 102 11011 11016.

Chen P. M. Kwan S. H. Hwang T. S. Chiang B. N. and Chou C. K. 1983 . Insulin receptors on leukemia and lymphoma cells. Blood 62 251 255.

Chen W. Y. and Baylin S. B. 2005 . Inactivation of Tumor Suppressor Genes Choice Between Genetic and Epigenetic Routes. Cell Cycle 4.

Chen W. Y. Cooper T. K. Zahnow C. A. Overholtzer M. Zhao Z. Ladanyi M. Karp J. E. Gokgoz N. Wunder J. S. Andrulis I. L. et al. 2004 . Epigenetic and genetic loss of Hic1 function accentuates the role of p53 in tumorigenesis. Cancer Cell 6 387 398.

Chen W. Y. D. H. Wang R. C. Yen J. Luo W. Gu and S. B. Baylin. 2005. Tumor suppressor HIC1 directly regulates SIRT1 to modulate p53 dependent DNA damage responses. Cell 123 437 448.

Chen W. Y. Zeng X. Carter M. G. Morrell C. N. Chiu Yen R. W. Esteller M. Watkins D. N. Herman J. G. Mankowski J. L. and Baylin S. B. 2003 . Heterozygous disruption of Hic1 predisposes mice to a gender dependent spectrum of malignant tumors. Nat Genet. 33 197 202.

Chu F. P. M. Chou X. Zheng B. L. Mirkin and A. Rebbaa. 2005. Control of multidrug resistance gene mdr1 and cancer resistance to chemotherapy by the longevity gene sirt1. Cancer Res 65 10183 10187.

Cohen H. Y. Miller C. Bitterman K. J. Wall N. R. Hekking B. Kessler B. Howitz K. T. Gorospe M. de Cabo R. and Sinclair D. A. 2004 . Calorie restriction promotes mammalian cell survival by inducing the SIRT1 deacetylase. Science 305 390 392.

Cohen M. H. G. A. Williams R. Sridhara G. Chen W. D. McGuinn Jr. D. Morse S. Abraham A. Rahman C. Liang R. Lostritto A. Baird and R. Pazdur. 2004. United States Food and Drug Administration Drug Approval summary Gefitinib ZD1839 Iressa tablets. Clin Cancer Res 10 1212 1218.

Cragg M. S. J. Kuroda H. Puthalakath D. C. Huang and A. Strasser. 2007. Gefitinib induced killing of NSCLC cell lines expressing mutant EGFR requires BIM and can be enhanced by BH3 mimetics. PLoS Med 4 1681 1689 discussion 1690.

Crane R. A. Kloepfer and J. V. Ruderman. 2004. Requirements for the destruction of human Aurora A. J Cell Sci 117 5975 5983.

Czechowska A. Poplawski T. Drzewoski J. and Blasiak J. 2005 . Imatinib STI571 induces DNA damage in BCR ABL expressing leukemic cells but not in normal lymphocytes. Chem Biol Interact 152 139 150.

Daitoku H. M. Hatta H. Matsuzaki S. Aratani T. Ohshima M. Miyagishi T. Nakajima and A. Fukamizu. 2004. Silent information regulator 2 potentiates Foxo1 mediated transcription through its deacetylase activity. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 101 10042 10047.

de Ruijter A. J. van Gennip A. H. Caron H. N. Kemp S. and van Kuilenburg A. B. 2003 . Histone deacetylases HDACs characterization of the classical HDAC family. Biochem J 370 737 749.

Deininger M. W. and Druker B. J. 2003 . Specific targeted therapy of chronic myelogenous leukemia with imatinib. Pharmacol Rev 55 401 423.

Deininger M. W. Goldman J. M. Lydon N. and Melo J. V. 1997 . The tyrosine kinase inhibitor CGP57148B selectively inhibits the growth of BCR ABL positive cells. Blood 90 3691 3698.

Engelman J. A. K. Zejnullahu T. Mitsudomi Y. Song C. Hyland J. O. Park N. Lindeman C. M. Gale X. Zhao J. Christensen T. Kosaka A. J. Holmes A. M. Rogers F. Cappuzzo T. Mok C. Lee B. E. Johnson L. C. Cantley and P. A. Janne. 2007. MET amplification leads to gefitinib resistance in lung cancer by activating ERBB3 signaling. Science 316 1039 1043.

Engelman J. A. T. Mukohara K. Zejnullahu E. Lifshits A. M. Borras C. M. Gale G. N. Naumov B. Y. Yeap E. Jarrell J. Sun S. Tracy X. Zhao J. V. Heymach B. E. Johnson L. C. Cantley and P. A. Janne. 2006. Allelic dilution obscures detection of a biologically significant resistance mutation in EGFR amplified lung cancer. J Clin Invest 116 2695 2706.

Ford J. M. Jiang and J. Milner. 2005. Cancer specific functions of SIRT1 enable human epithelial cancer cell growth and survival. Cancer Res 65 10457 10463.

Frye R. A. 1999. Characterization of five human cDNAs with homology to the yeast SIR2 gene Sir2 like proteins sirtuins metabolize NAD and may have protein ADP ribosyltransferase activity. Biochem Biophys Res Commun 260 273 279.

Frye R. A. 2000. Phylogenetic classification of prokaryotic and eukaryotic Sir2 like proteins. Biochem Biophys Res Commun 273 793 798.

Gambacorti Passerini C. B. Gunby R. H. Piazza R. Galietta A. Rostagno R. and Scapozza L. 2003 . Molecular mechanisms of resistance to imatinib in Philadelphia chromosome positive leukaemias. Lancet Oncol 4 75 85.

Giles F. J. J. Cortes D. Jones D. Bergstrom H. Kantarjian and S. J. Freedman. 2007. MK 0457 a novel kinase inhibitor is active in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia or acute lymphocytic leukemia with the T315I BCR ABL mutation. Blood 109 500 502.

Gorre M. E. Mohammed M. Ellwood K. Hsu N. Paquette R. Rao P. N. and Sawyers C. L. 2001 . Clinical resistance to STI 571 cancer therapy caused by BCR ABL gene mutation or amplification. Science 293 876 880.

Grozinger C. M. E. D. Chao H. E. Blackwell D. Moazed and S. L. Schreiber. 2001. Identification of a class of small molecule inhibitors of the sirtuin family of NAD dependent deacetylases by phenotypic screening. J Biol Chem 276 38837 38843.

Guerardel C. Deltour S. Pinte S. Monte D. Begue A. Godwin A. K. and Leprince D. 2001 . Identification in the human candidate tumor suppressor gene HIC 1 of a new major alternative TATA less promoter positively regulated by p53. J Biol Chem 276 3078 3089.

Haber D. A. D. W. Bell R. Sordella E. L. Kwak N. Godin Heymann S. V. Sharma T. J. Lynch and J. Settleman. 2005. Molecular targeted therapy of lung cancer EGFR mutations and response to EGFR inhibitors. Cold Spring Harb Symp Quant Biol 70 419 426.

Harrington E. A. D. Bebbington J. Moore R. K. Rasmussen A. O. Ajose Adeogun T. Nakayama J. A. Graham C. Demur T. Hercend A. Diu Hercend M. Su J. M. Golec and K. M. Miller. 2 4. VX 680 a potent and selective small molecule inhibitor of the Aurora kinases suppresses tumor growth in vivo. Nat Med 10 262 267.

Hirao M. Posakony J. Nelson M. Hruby H. Jung M. Simon J. A. and Bedalov A. 2003 . Identification of selective inhibitors of NAD dependent deacetylases using phenotypic screens in yeast. J Biol Chem 278 52773 52782.

Howitz K. T. K. J. Bitterman H. Y. Cohen D. W. Lamming S. Lavu J. G. Wood R. E. Zipkin P. Chung A. Kisielewski L. L. Zhang B. Scherer and D. A. Sinclair. 2003. Small molecule activators of sirtuins extend lifespan. Nature 425 191 196.

Huffman D. M. W. E. Grizzle M. M. Bamman J. S. Kim I. A. Eltoum A. Elgavish and T. R. Nagy. 2007. SIRT1 Is Significantly Elevated in Mouse and Human Prostate Cancer. Cancer Res 67 6612 6618.

Imai S. C. M. Armstrong M. Kaeberlein and L. Guarente. 2000. Transcriptional silencing and longevity protein Sir2 is an NAD dependent histone deacetylase. Nature 403 795 800.

Inukai M. S. Toyooka S. Ito H. Asano S. Ichihara J. Soh H. Suchisa M. Ouchida K. Aoe M. Aoe K. Kiura N. Shimizu and H. Date. 2006. Presence of epidermal growth factor receptor gene T790M mutation as a minor clone in non small cell lung cancer. Cancer Res 66 7854 7858.

Issa J. P. Zehnbauer B. A. Kaufmann S. H. Biel M. A. and Baylin S. B. 1997 . HIC1 hypermethylation is a late event in hematopoietic neoplasms. Cancer Res 57 1678 1681.

Jones P. A. and Baylin S. B. 2002 . The fundamental role of epigenetic events in cancer. Nat Rev Genet. 3 415 428.

Kaeberlein M. McVey M. and Guarente L. 1999 . The SIR2 3 4 complex and SIR2 alone promote longevity in by two different mechanisms. Genes Dev 13 2570 2580.

Kantarjian H. Giles F. Wunderle L. Bhalla K. O Brien S. Wassmann B. Tanaka C. Manley P. Rae P. Mietlowski W. et al. 2006 . Nilotinib in imatinib resistant CML and Philadelphia chromosome positive ALL. N Engl J Med 354 2542 2551.

Kawano T. Horiguchi Yamada J. wase S. Akiyama M. Furukawa Y. Kan Y. and Yamada H. 2004 . Depsipeptide enhances imatinib mesylate induced apoptosis of Bcr Abl positive cells and ectopic expression of cyclin D1 c Myc or active MEK abrogates this effect. Anticancer Res 24 2705 2712.

Keen N. and S. Taylor. 2004. Aurora kinase inhibitors as anticancer agents. Nat Rev Cancer 4 927 936.

Kelly D. P. and R. C. Scarpulla. 2004. Transcriptional regulatory circuits controlling mitochondrial biogenesis and function. Genes Dev 18 357 368.

Kharbanda S. P. Pandey S. Jin S. Inoue A. Bharti Z. M. Yuan R. Weichselbaum D. Weaver and D. Kufe. 1997. Functional interaction between DNA PK and c Abi in response to DNA damage. Nature 386 732 735.

Klejman A. Rushen L. Morrione A. Slupianek A. and Skorski T. 2002 . Phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase inhibitors enhance the anti leukemia effect of STI571. Oncogene 21 5868 5876.

Kobayashi S. T. J. Boggon T. Dayaram P. A. Janne O. Kocher M. Meyerson B. E. Johnson M. J. Eck D. G. Tenen and B. Halmos. 2005. EGFR mutation and resistance of non small cell lung cancer to gefitinib. N Engl J Med 352 786 792.

Koptyra M. R. Falinski M. O. Nowicki T. Stoklosa I. Majsterek M. Nieborowska Skorska J. Blasiak and T. Skorski. 2006. BCR ABL kinase induces self mutagenesis via reactive oxygen species to encode imatinib resistance. Blood 108 319 327.

Kosaka T. Y. Yatabe H. Endoh K. Yoshida T. Hida M. Tsuboi H. Tada H. Kuwano and T. Mitsudomi. 2006. Analysis of epidermal growth factor receptor gene mutation in patients with non small cell lung cancer and acquired resistance to gefitinib. Clin Cancer Res 12 5764 5769.

Kowolik C. M. Yam P. Yu Y. and Yee J. K. 2003 . HIV vector production mediated by Rev protein transduction. Mol Ther 8 324 331.

Kuzmichev A. R. Margueron A. Vaquero T. S. Preissner M. Scher A. Kirmizis X. Ouyang N. Brockdorff C. Abate Shen P. Farnham and D. Reinberg. 2005. Composition and histone substrates of polycomb repressive group complexes change during cellular differentiation. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 102 1859 1864.

Kwak E. L. R. Sordella D. W. Bell N. Godin Heymann R. A. Okimoto B. W. Brannigan P. L. Harris D. R. Driscoll P. Fidias T. J. Lynch S. K. Rabindran J. P. McGinnis A. Wissner S. V. Sharma K. J. Isselbacher J. Settleman and D. A. Haber. 2005. Irreversible inhibitors of the EGF receptor may circumvent acquired resistance to gefitinib. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 102 7665 7670.

Lagouge M. C. Argmann Z. Gerhart Hines H. Meziane C. Lerin F. Daussin N. Messadeq J. Milne P. Lambert P. Elliott B. Geny M. Laakso P. Puigserver and J. Auwerx. 2006. Resveratrol improves mitochondrial function and protects against metabolic disease by activating SIRT1 and PGC 1 alpha. Cell 127 1109 1122.

La Rosee P. Corbin A. S. Stoffregen E. P. Deininger M. W. and Druker B. J. 2002 . Activity of the Bcr Abl kinase inhibitor PD180970 against clinically relevant Bcr Abl isoforms that cause resistance to imatinib mesylate Gleevec STI571 . Cancer Res 62 7149 7153.

La Rosee P. Johnson K. Corbin A. S. Stoffregen E. P. Moseson E. M. Willis S. Mauro M. M. Melo J. V. Deininger M. W. and Druker B. J. 2004 . In vitro efficacy of combined treatment depends on the underlying mechanism of resistance in imatinib resistant Bcr Abl positive cell lines. Blood 103 208 215.

La Rosee P. Corbin A. S. Stoffregen E. P. Deininger M. W. and Druker B. J. 2002 . Activity of the Bcr Abl kinase inhibitor PD180970 against clinically relevant Bcr Abl isoforms that cause resistance to imatinib mesylate Gleevec STI571 . Cancer Res 62 7149 7153.

Landry J. A. Sutton S. T. Tafrov R. C. Heller J. Stebbins L. Pillus and R. Sternglanz. 2000. The silencing protein SIR2 and its homologs are NAD dependent protein deacetylases. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97 5807 5811.

Le Coutre P. L. Mologni L. Cleros E. Marchesi E. Buchdunger R. Giardini F. Formelli and C. Gambacorti Passerini. 1999. In vivo eradication of human BCR ABL positive leukemia cells with an ABL kinase inhibitor. J Natl Cancer Inst 91 163 168.

Li M. J. G. Bauer A. Michienzi J. K. Yee N. S. Lee J. Kim S. Li D. Castanotto J. Zaia and J. J. Rossi. 2003. Inhibition of HIV 1 infection by lentiviral vectors expressing Pol III promoted anti HIV RNAs. Mol Ther 8 196 206.

Lin S. J. P. A. Defossez and L. Guarente. 2000. Requirement of NAD and SIR2 for life span extension by calorie restriction in . Science 289 2126 2128.

Littlepage L. E. and J. V. Ruderman. 2002. Identification of a new APC C recognition domain the A box which is required for the Cdh1 dependent destruction of the kinase Aurora A during mitotic exit. Genes Dev 16 2274 2285.

Littlepage L. E. H. Wu T. Andresson J. K. Deanehan L. T. Amundadottir and J. V. Ruderman. 2002. Identification of phosphorylated residues that affect the activity of the mitotic kinase Aurora A. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 99 15440 15445.

Luo J. Nikolaev A. Y. Imai S. Chen D. Su F. Shiloh A. Guarente L. and Gu W. 2001 . Negative control of p53 by Sir2alpha promotes cell survival under stress. Cell 107 137 148.

Ly C. Arechiga A. F. Melo J. V. Walsh C. M. and Ong S. T. 2003 . Bcr Abl kinase modulates the translation regulators ribosomal protein S6 and 4E BP1 in chronic myelogenous leukemia cells via the mammalian target of rapamycin. Cancer Res 63 5716 5722.

Lynch T. J. D. W. Bell R. Sordella S. Gurubhagavatula R. A. Okimoto B. W. Brannigan P. L. Harris S. M. Haserlat J. G. Supko F. G. Haluska D. N. Louis D. C. Christiani J. Settleman and D. A. Haber. 2004. Activating mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor underlying responsiveness of non small cell lung cancer to gefitinib. N Engl J Med 350 2129 2139.

Maguer Satta V. Burl S. Liu L. Damen J. Chahine H. Krystal G. Eaves A. and Eaves C. 1998 . BCR ABL accelerates C2 ceramide induced apoptosis. Oncogene 16 237 248.

Mahon F. X. Deininger M. W. Schultheis B. Chabrol J. Reiffers J. Goldman J. M. and Melo J. V. 2000 . Selection and characterization of BCR ABL positive cell lines with differential sensitivity to the tyrosine kinase inhibitor STI571 diverse mechanisms of resistance. Blood 96 1070 1079.

Mai A. S. Massa S. Lavu R. Pezzi S. Simeoni R. Ragno F. R. Mariotti F. Chiani G. Camilloni and D. A. Sinclair. 2005. Design synthesis and biological evaluation of sirtinol analogues as class III histone protein deacetylase Sirtuin inhibitors. J Med Chem 48 7789 7795.

Michor F. Hughes T. P. Iwasa Y. Branford S. Shah N. P. Sawyers C. L. and Nowak M. A. 2005 . Dynamics of chronic myeloid leukaemia. Nature 435 1267 1270.

Motta M. C. N. Divecha M. Lemieux C. Kamel D. Chen W. Gu Y. Bultsma M. McBurney and L. Guarente. 2004. Mammalian SIRT1 represses forkhead transcription factors. Cell 116 551 563.

Moynihan K. A. Grimm A. A. Plueger M. M. Bernal Mizrachi E. Ford E. Cras Meneur C. Permutt M. A. and Imai S. 2005 . Increased dosage of mammalian Sir2 in pancreatic beta cells enhances glucose stimulated insulin secretion in mice. Cell Metab 2 105 117.

Narayan G. Arias Pulido H. Koul S. Vargas H. Zhang F. F. Villella J. Schneider A. Terry M. B. Mansukhani M. and Murty V. V. 2003 . Frequent Promoter Methylation of CDH1 DAPK RARB and HIC1 Genes in Carcinoma of Cervix Uteri Its Relationship to Clinical Outcome. Mol Cancer 2 24.

Nemoto S. M. M. Fergusson and T. Finkel. 2004. Nutrient availability regulates SIRT1 through a forkhead dependent pathway. Science 306 2105 2108.

Neubauer A. M. He C. A. Schmidt D. Huhn and E. T. Liu. 1993. Genetic alterations in the p53 gene in the blast crisis of chronic myelogenous leukemia analysis by polymerase chain reaction based techniques. Leukemia 7 593 600.

North B. J. and Verdin E. 2004 . Sirtuins Sir2 related NAD dependent protein deacetylases. Genome Biol 5 224.

Ogino A. H. Kitao S. Hirano A. Uchida M. Ishiai T. Kozuki N. Takigawa M. Takata K. Kiura and M. Tanimoto. 2007. Emergence of epidermal growth factor receptor T790M mutation during chronic exposure to gefitinib in a non small cell lung cancer cell line. Cancer Res 67 7807 7814.

Osterholm A. M. Falt S. Lambert B. and Hou S. M. 1995 . Classification of mutations at the human hprt locus in T lymphocytes of bus maintenance workers by multiplex PCR and reverse transcriptase PCR analysis. Carcinogenesis 16 1909 1912.

Ota H. Tokunaga E. Chang K. Hikasa M. lijima K. Eto M. Kozaki K. Akishita M. Ouchi Y. and Kaneki M. 2005 . Sirt1 inhibitor Sirtinol induces senescence like growth arrest with attenuated Ras MAPK signaling in human cancer cells. Oncogene.

Paez J. G. P. A. Janne J. C. Lee S. Tracy H. Greulich S. Gabriel P. Herman F. J. Kaye N. Lindeman T. J. Boggon K. Naoki H. Sasaki Y. Fujii M. J. Eck W. R. Sellers B. E. Johnson and M. Meyerson. 2004. EGFR mutations in lung cancer correlation with clinical response to gefitinib therapy. Science 304 1497 1500.

Pan J. Q. Wang and W. J. Snell. 2004. An aurora kinase is essential for flagellar disassembly in . Dev Cell 6 445 451.

Pao W. V. A. Miller K. A. Politi G. J. Riely R. Somwar M. F. Zakowski M. G. Kris and H. Varmus. 2005. Acquired resistance of lung adenocarcinomas to gefitinib or erlotinib is associated with a second mutation in the EGFR kinase domain. PLoS Med 2 e73.

Pao W. V. Miller M. Zakowski J. Doherty K. Politi I. Sarkaria B. Singh R. Heelan V. Rusch L. Fulton E. Mardis D. Kupfer R. Wilson M. Kris and H. Varmus. 2004. EGF receptor gene mutations are common in lung cancers from never smokers and are associated with sensitivity of tumors to gefitinib and erlotinib. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 101 13306 13311.

Pear W. S. J. P. Miller L. Xu J. C. Pui B. Soffer R. C. Quackenbush A. M. Pendergast R. Bronson J. C. Aster M. L. Scott and D. Baltimore. 1998. Efficient and rapid induction of a chronic myelogenous leukemia like myeloproliferative disease in mice receiving P210 bcr abl transduced bone marrow. Blood 92 3780 3792.

Peng B. P. Lloyd and H. Schran. 2005. Clinical pharmacokinetics of imatinib. Clin Pharmacokinet 44 879 894.

Podlutsky A. Osterholm A. M. Hou S. M. Hofmaier A. and Lambert B. 1998 . Spectrum of point mutations in the coding region of the hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase hprt gene in human T lymphocytes in vivo. Carcinogenesis 19 557 566.

Rapozzi V. and L. E. Xodo. 2004. Efficient silencing of bcr abl oncogene by single and double stranded siRNAs targeted against b2a2 transcripts. Biochemistrry 43 16134 16141.

Rathi A. Virmani A. K. Harada K. Timmons C. F. Miyajima K. Hay R. J. Mastrangelo D. Maitra A. Tomlinson G. E. and Gazdar A. F. 2003 . Aberrant methylation of the HIC1 promoter is a frequent event in specific pediatric neoplasms. Clin Cancer Res 9 3674 3678.

Reynolds A. Leake D. Boese Q. Scaringe S. Marshall W. S. and Khvorova A. 2004 . Rational siRNA design for RNA interference. Nat Biotechnol 22 326 330.

Rodgers J. T. C. Lerin W. Haas S. P. Gygi B. M. Spiegelman and P. Puigserver. 2005. Nutrient control of glucose homeostasis through a complex of PGC 1 alpha and SIRT1. Nature 434 113 118.

Santini V. Kantarjian H. M. and Issa J. P. 2001 . Changes in DNA methylation in neoplasia pathophysiology and therapeutic implications. Ann Intern Med 134 573 586.

Sattler M. S. Verma G. Shrikhande C. H. Byrne Y. B. Pride T. Winkler E. A. Greenfield R. Salgia and J. D. Griffin. 2000. The BCR ABL tyrosine kinase induces production of reactive oxygen species in hematopoietic cells. J Biol Chem 275 24273 24278.

Saunders L. R. and Verdin E. 2007 . Sirtuins critical regulators at the crossroads between cancer and aging. Oncogene 26 5489 5504.

Schindler T. Bornmann W. Pellicena P. Miller W. T. Clarkson B. and Kuriyan J. 2000 . Structural mechanism for STI 571 inhibition of abelson tyrosine kinase. Science 289 1938 1942.

Shafman T. K. K. Khanna P. Kedar K. Spring S. Kozlov T. Yen K. Hobson M. Gatei N. Zhang D. Watters M. Egerton Y. Shiloh S. Kharbanda D. Kufe and M. F. Lavin. 1997. Interaction between ATM protein and c Abi in response to DNA damage. Nature 387 520 523.

Shah N. P. and Sawyers C. L. 2003 . Mechanisms of resistance to STI571 in Philadelphia chromosome associated leukemias. Oncogene 22 7389 7395.

Shah N. P. C. Tran F. Y. Lee P. Chen D. Norris and C. L. Sawyers. 2004. Overriding imatinib resistance with a novel ABL kinase inhibitor. Science 305 399 401.

Shah N. P. Nicoll J. M. Nagar B. Gorre M. E. Paquette R. L. Kuriyan J. and Sawyers C. L. 2002 . Multiple BCR ABL kinase domain mutations confer polyclonal resistance to the tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib STI571 in chronic phase and blast crisis chronic myeloid leukemia. Cancer Cell 2 117 125.

Skorski T. Kanakaraj P. Nieborowska Skorska M. Ratajczak M. Z. Wen S. C. Zon G. Gewirtz A. M. Perussia B. and Calabretta B. 1995 . Phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase activity is regulated by BCR ABL and is required for the growth of Philadelphia chromosome positive cells. Blood 86 726 736.

Slupianek A. Nowicki M. O. Koptyra M. and Skorski T. 2006 . BCR ABL modifies the kinetics and fidelity of DNA double strand breaks repair in hematopoietic cells. DNA Repair Amst 5 243 250.

Soverini S. Colarossi S. Gnani A. Rosti G. Castagnetti F. Poerio A. lacobucci I. Amabile M. Abruzzese E. Orlandi E. et al. 2006 . Contribution of ABL kinase domain mutations to imatinib resistance in different subsets of Philadelphia positive patients by the GIMEMA Working Party on Chronic Myeloid Leukemia. Clin Cancer Res 12 7374 7379.

Stamos J. M. X. Sliwkowski and C. Eigenbrot. 2002. Structure of the epidermal growth factor receptor kinase domain alone and in complex with a 4 anilinoquinazoline inhibitor. J Biol Chem 277 46265 46272.

Szabo Tang Reed Silva Tsark Mann. 2002. The chicken beta globin insulator element conveys chromatin boundary activity but not imprinting at the mouse Igf2 H19 domain. Development 129 897 904.

Talpaz M. N. P. Shah H. Kantarjian N. Donato J. Nicoll R. Paquette J. Cortes S. O Brien C. Nicaise E. Bleickardt M. A. Blackwood Chirchir V. Iyer T. T. Chen F. Huang A. P. Decillis and C. L. Sawyers. 2006. Dasatinib in imatinib resistant Philadelphia chromosome positive leukemias. N Engl J Med 354 2531 2541.

Tang S. H. F. J. Silva W. M. Tsark and J. R. Mann. 2002. A Cre IoxP deleter transgenic line in mouse strain 12951 SvImJ. Genesis 32 199 202.

Tanner K. G. J. Landry R. Sternglanz and J. M. Denu. 2000. Silent information regulator 2 family of NAD dependent histone protein deacetylases generates a unique product 1 O acetyl ADP ribose. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97 14178 14182.

Tanny J. C. and D. Moazed. 2001. Coupling of histone deacetylation to NAD breakdown by the yeast silencing protein Sir2 Evidence for acetyl transfer from substrate to an NAD breakdown product. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98 415 420.

Tissenbaum H. A. and Guarente L. 2001 . Increased dosage of a sir 2 gene extends lifespan in . Nature 410 227 230.

van der Horst A. L. G. Tertoolen L. M. de Vries Smits R. A. Frye R. H. Medema and B. M. Burgering. 2004. FOXO4 is acetylated upon peroxide stress and deacetylated by the longevity protein hSir2 SIRT1 . J Biol Chem 279 28873 28879.

Vaziri H. Dessain S. K. Ng Eaton E. Imai S. I. Frye R. A. Pandita T. K. Guarente L. and Weinberg R. A. 2001 . hSIR2 SIRT1 functions as an NAD dependent p53 deacetylase. Cell 107 149 159.

Ventura A. Meissner A. Dillon C. P. McManus M. Sharp P. A. Van Parijs L. Jaenisch R. and Jacks T. 2004 . Cre lox regulated conditional RNA interference from transgenes. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 101 10380 10385.

von Bubnoff N. C. Peschel and J. Duyster. 2003. Resistance of Philadelphia chromosome positive leukemia towards the kinase inhibitor imatinib STI571 Glivec a targeted oncoprotein strikes back. Leukemia 17 829 838.

von Bubnoff N. D. R. Veach H. van der Kuip W. E. Aulitzky J. Sanger P. Seipel W. G. Bornmann C. Peschel B. Clarkson and J. Duyster. 2005. A cell based screen for resistance of Bcr Abl positive leukemia identifies the mutation pattern for PD166326 an alternative Abl kinase inhibitor. Blood 105 1652 1659.

von Bubnoff N. Manley P. W. Mestan J. Sanger J. Peschel C. and Duyster J. 2006 . Bcr Abl resistance screening predicts a limited spectrum of point mutations to be associated with clinical resistance to the Abl kinase inhibitor nilotinib AMN107 . Blood 108 1328 1333.

Wales M. M. M. A. Biel W. el Deiry B. D. Nelkin J. P. Issa W. K. Cavenee S. J. Kuerbitz and S. B. Baylin. 1995. p53 activates expression of HIC 1 a new candidate tumour suppressor gene on 17p13.3. Nat Med 1 570 577.

Weisberg E. Manley P. W. Breitenstein W. Bruggen J. Cowan Jacob S. W. Ray A. Huntly B. Fabbro D. Fendrich G. Hall Meyers E. et al. 2005 . Characterization of AMN107 a selective inhibitor of native and mutant Bcr Abl. Cancer Cell 7 129 141.

Woo R. A. and Poon R. Y. 2004 . Activated oncogenes promote and cooperate with chromosomal instability for neoplastic transformation. Genes Dev 18 1317 1330.

Wood J. G. B. Rogina S. Lavu K. Howitz S. L. Helfand M. Tatar and D. Sinclair. 2004. Sirtuin activators mimic caloric restriction and delay ageing in metazoans. Nature 430 686 689.

Xiao H. Li T. K. Yang J. M. and Liu L. F. 2003 . Acidic pH induces topoisomerase II mediated DNA damage. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 100 5205 5210.

Yu C. Rahmani M. Almenara J. Subler M. Krystal G. Conrad D. Varticovski L. Dent P. and Grant S. 2003 . Histone deacetylase inhibitors promote STI571 mediated apoptosis in STI571 sensitive and resistant Bcr Abl human myeloid leukemia cells. Cancer Res 63 2118 2126.

Yuan H. F. Bhatia R. and Chen W. Y. 2008 . Induction of BCR ABL mutations for acquired resistance of chronic myelogenous leukemia by imatinib To be submitted.

Yuan Z. Zhang X. Sengupta N. Lane W. S. and Seto E. 2007 . SIRT1 regulates the function of the Nijmegen breakage syndrome protein. Mol Cell 27 149 162.

