---

title: Methods for rapid forensic analysis of mitochondrial DNA
abstract: The present invention provides methods for rapid forensic analysis of mitochondrial DNA by amplification of a segment of mitochondrial DNA containing restriction sites, digesting the mitochondrial DNA segments with restriction enzymes, determining the molecular masses of the restriction fragments and comparing the molecular masses with the molecular masses of theoretical restriction digests of known mitochondrial DNA sequences stored in a database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08407010&OS=08407010&RS=08407010
owner: Ibis Biosciences, Inc.
number: 08407010
owner_city: Carlsbad
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080317
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 853 660 filed May 25 2004 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety for any purpose.

This invention was made with United States Government support under DARPA contract MDA 972 03C 112. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to the field of mitochondrial DNA analysis. The invention enables rapid and accurate forensic analysis by using mass spectrometry to characterize informative regions of mitochondrial DNA.

Mitochondrial DNA mtDNA is found in eukaryotes and differs from nuclear DNA in its location its sequence its quantity in the cell and its mode of inheritance. The nucleus of the cell contains two sets of 23 chromosomes one paternal set and one maternal set. However cells may contain hundreds to thousands of mitochondria each of which may contain several copies of mtDNA. Nuclear DNA has many more bases than mtDNA but mtDNA is present in many more copies than nuclear DNA. This characteristic of mtDNA is useful in situations where the amount of DNA in a sample is very limited. Typical sources of DNA recovered from crime scenes include hair bones teeth and body fluids such as saliva semen and blood.

In humans mitochondrial DNA is inherited strictly from the mother Case J. T. and Wallace D. C. 1981 7 103 108 Giles R. E. et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 1980 77 6715 6719 Hutchison C. A. et al 1974 251 536 538 . Thus the mtDNA sequences obtained from maternally related individuals such as a brother and a sister or a mother and a daughter will exactly match each other in the absence of a mutation. This characteristic of mtDNA is advantageous in missing persons cases as reference mtDNA samples can be supplied by any maternal relative of the missing individual Ginther C. et al. 1992 2 135 138 Holland M. M. et al. 1993 38 542 553 Stoneking M. et al. 1991 48 370 382 .

The human mtDNA genome is approximately 16 569 bases in length and has two general regions the coding region and the control region. The coding region is responsible for the production of various biological molecules involved in the process of energy production in the cell and includes about 37 genes 22 transfer RNAs 2 ribosomal RNAs and 13 peptides with very little intergenic sequence and no introns. The control region is responsible for regulation of the mtDNA molecule. Two regions of mtDNA within the control region have been found to be highly polymorphic or variable within the human population Greenberg B. D. et al. Gene 1983 21 33 49 . These two regions are termed hypervariable Region I HV1 which has an approximate length of 342 base pairs bp and hypervariable Region II HV2 which has an approximate length of 268 bp. Forensic mtDNA examinations are performed using these two regions because of the high degree of variability found among individuals.

There exists a need for rapid identification of humans wherein human remains and or biological samples are analyzed. Such remains or samples may be associated with war related casualties aircraft crashes and acts of terrorism for example. Analysis of mtDNA enables a rule in rule out identification process for persons for whom DNA profiles from a maternal relative are available. Human identification by analysis of mtDNA can also be applied to human remains and or biological samples obtained from crime scenes.

The process of human identification is a common objective of forensics investigations. As used herein forensics is the study of evidence discovered at a crime or accident scene and used in a court of law. Forensic science is any science used for the purposes of the law in particular the criminal justice system and therefore provides impartial scientific evidence for use in the courts of law and in a criminal investigation and trial. Forensic science is a multidisciplinary subject drawing principally from chemistry and biology but also from physics geology psychology and social science for example.

Forensic scientists generally use two highly variable regions of human mtDNA for analysis. These regions are designated hypervariable regions 1 and 2 HV1 and HV2 which contain 341 and 267 base pairs respectively . These hypervariable regions or portions thereof provide one non limiting example of mitochondrial DNA identifying amplicons.

A typical mtDNA analysis begins when total genomic DNA is extracted from biological material such as a tooth blood sample or hair. The polymerase chain reaction PCR is then used to amplify or create many copies of the two hypervariable portions of the non coding region of the mtDNA molecule using flanking primers. Care is taken to eliminate the introduction of exogenous DNA during both the extraction and amplification steps via methods such as the use of pre packaged sterile equipment and reagents aerosol resistant barrier pipette tips gloves masks and lab coats separation of pre and post amplification areas in the lab using dedicated reagents for each ultraviolet irradiation of equipment and autoclaving of tubes and reagent stocks. In casework questioned samples are always processed before known samples and they are processed in different laboratory rooms. When adequate amounts of PCR product are amplified to provide all the necessary information about the two hypervariable regions sequencing reactions are performed. These chemical reactions use each PCR product as a template to create a new complementary strand of DNA in which some of the nucleotide residues that make up the DNA sequence are labeled with dye. The strands created in this stage are then separated according to size by an automated sequencing machine that uses a laser to read the sequence or order of the nucleotide bases. Where possible the sequences of both hypervariable regions are determined on both strands of the double stranded DNA molecule with sufficient redundancy to confirm the nucleotide substitutions that characterize that particular sample. At least two forensic analysts independently assemble the sequence and then compare it to a standard commonly used reference sequence. The entire process is then repeated with a known sample such as blood or saliva collected from a known individual. The sequences from both samples about 780 bases long each are compared to determine if they match. The analysts assess the results of the analysis and determine if any portions of it need to be repeated. Finally in the event of an inclusion or match the SWGDAM mtDNA database which is maintained by the FBI is searched for the mitochondrial sequence that has been observed for the samples. The analysts can then report the number of observations of this type based on the nucleotide positions that have been read. A written report can be provided to the submitting agency.

Approximately 610 bp of mtDNA are currently sequenced in forensic mtDNA analysis. Recording and comparing mtDNA sequences would be difficult and potentially confusing if all of the bases were listed. Thus mtDNA sequence information is recorded by listing only the differences with respect to a reference DNA sequence. By convention human mtDNA sequences are described using the first complete published mtDNA sequence as a reference Anderson S. et al. 1981 290 457 465 . This sequence is commonly referred to as the Anderson sequence. It is also called the Cambridge reference sequence or the Oxford sequence. Each base pair in this sequence is assigned a number. Deviations from this reference sequence are recorded as the number of the position demonstrating a difference and a letter designation of the different base. For example a transition from A to G at Position 263 would be recorded as 263 G. If deletions or insertions of bases are present in the mtDNA these differences are denoted as well.

In the United States there are seven laboratories currently conducting forensic mtDNA examinations the FBI Laboratory Laboratory Corporation of America LabCorp in Research Triangle Park North Carolina Mitotyping Technologies in State College Pa. the Bode Technology Group BTG in Springfield Va. the Armed Forces DNA Identification Laboratory AFDIL in Rockville Md. BioSynthesis Inc. in Lewisville Tex. and Reliagene in New Orleans La.

Mitochondrial DNA analyses have been admitted in criminal proceedings from these laboratories in the following states as of April 1999 Alabama Arkansas Florida Indiana Illinois Maryland Michigan New Mexico North Carolina Pennsylvania South Carolina Tennessee Texas and Washington. Mitochondrial DNA has also been admitted and used in criminal trials in Australia the United Kingdom and several other European countries.

Since 1996 the number of individuals performing mitochondrial DNA analysis at the FBI Laboratory has grown from 4 to 12 with more personnel expected in the near future. Over 150 mitochondrial DNA cases have been completed by the FBI Laboratory as of March 1999 and dozens more await analysis. Forensic courses are being taught by the FBI Laboratory personnel and other groups to educate forensic scientists in the procedures and interpretation of mtDNA sequencing. More and more individuals are learning about the value of mtDNA sequencing for obtaining useful information from evidentiary samples that are small degraded or both. Mitochondrial DNA sequencing is becoming known not only as an exclusionary tool but also as a complementary technique for use with other human identification procedures. Mitochondrial DNA analysis will continue to be a powerful tool for law enforcement officials in the years to come as other applications are developed validated and applied to forensic evidence.

Presently the forensic analysis of mtDNA is rigorous and labor intensive. Currently only 1 2 cases per month per analyst can be performed. Several molecular biological techniques are combined to obtain a mtDNA sequence from a sample. The steps of the mtDNA analysis process include primary visual analysis sample preparation DNA extraction polymerase chain reaction PCR amplification post amplification quantification of the DNA automated DNA sequencing and data analysis. Another complicating factor in the forensic analysis of mtDNA is the occurrence of heteroplasmy wherein the pool of mtDNAs in a given cell is heterogeneous due to mutations in individual mtDNAs. There are two forms of heteroplasmy found in mtDNA. Sequence heteroplasmy also known as point heteroplasmy is the occurrence of more than one base at a particular position or positions in the mtDNA sequence. Length heteroplasmy is the occurrence of more than one length of a stretch of the same base in a mtDNA sequence as a result of insertion of nucleotide residues.

Heteroplasmy is a problem for forensic investigators since a sample from a crime scene can differ from a sample from a suspect by one base pair and this difference may be interpreted as sufficient evidence to eliminate that individual as the suspect. Hair samples from a single individual can contain heteroplasmic mutations at vastly different concentrations and even the root and shaft of a single hair can differ. The detection methods currently available to molecular biologists cannot detect low levels of heteroplasmy. Furthermore if present length heteroplasmy will adversely affect sequencing runs by resulting in an out of frame sequence that cannot be interpreted.

Mass spectrometry provides detailed information about the molecules being analyzed including high mass accuracy. It is also a process that can be easily automated.

Several groups have described detection of PCR products using high resolution electrospray ionization Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry ESI FT ICR MS . Accurate measurement of exact mass combined with knowledge of the number of at least one nucleotide allowed calculation of the total base composition for PCR duplex products of approximately 100 base pairs. Aaserud et al. 1996 7 1266 1269 Muddiman et al 1997 69 1543 1549 Wunschel et al. 1998 70 1203 1207 Muddiman et al. 1998 17 1 68 . Electrospray ionization Fourier transform ion cyclotron resistance ESI FT ICR MS may be used to determine the mass of double stranded 500 base pair PCR products via the average molecular mass Hurst et al. 1996 10 377 382 . The use of matrix assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight MALDI TOF mass spectrometry for characterization of PCR products has been described. Muddiman et al. 1999 13 1201 1204 . However the degradation of DNAs over about 75 nucleotides observed with MALDI limited the utility of this method.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 849 492 reports a method for retrieval of phylogenetically informative DNA sequences which comprise searching for a highly divergent segment of genomic DNA surrounded by two highly conserved segments designing the universal primers for PCR amplification of the highly divergent region amplifying the genomic DNA by PCR technique using universal primers and then sequencing the gene to determine the identity of the organism.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 965 363 reports methods for screening nucleic acids for polymorphisms by analyzing amplified target nucleic acids using mass spectrometric techniques and to procedures for improving mass resolution and mass accuracy of these methods.

WO 99 14375 reports methods PCR primers and kits for use in analyzing preselected DNA tandem nucleotide repeat alleles by mass spectrometry.

WO 98 12355 reports methods of determining the mass of a target nucleic acid by mass spectrometric analysis by cleaving the target nucleic acid to reduce its length making the target single stranded and using MS to determine the mass of the single stranded shortened target. Also reported are methods of preparing a double stranded target nucleic acid for MS analysis comprising amplification of the target nucleic acid binding one of the strands to a solid support releasing the second strand and then releasing the first strand which is then analyzed by MS. Kits for target nucleic acid preparation are also reported.

PCT WO97 33000 reports methods for detecting mutations in a target nucleic acid by nonrandomly fragmenting the target into a set of single stranded nonrandom length fragments and determining their masses by MS.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 605 798 reports a fast and highly accurate mass spectrometer based process for detecting the presence of a particular nucleic acid in a biological sample for diagnostic purposes.

WO 98 20166 reports processes for determining the sequence of a particular target nucleic acid by mass spectrometry. Processes for detecting a target nucleic acid present in a biological sample by PCR amplification and mass spectrometry detection are disclosed as are methods for detecting a target nucleic acid in a sample by amplifying the target with primers that contain restriction sites and tags extending and cleaving the amplified nucleic acid and detecting the presence of extended product wherein the presence of a DNA fragment of a mass different from wild type is indicative of a mutation. Methods of sequencing a nucleic acid via mass spectrometry methods are also described.

WO 97 37041 WO 99 31278 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 547 835 report methods of sequencing nucleic acids using mass spectrometry. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 622 824 5 872 003 and 5 691 141 report methods systems and kits for exonuclease mediated mass spectrometric sequencing.

There is a need for a mitochondrial DNA forensic analysis which is both specific and rapid and in which no nucleic acid sequencing is required. The present invention addresses this need among others.

The present invention is directed to methods of forensic analysis of mitochondrial DNA comprising amplifying a segment of mitochondrial DNA containing a plurality of restriction sites and flanked by a pair of primers to produce an amplification product digesting the amplification product with a plurality of restriction enzymes to produce a plurality of restriction digest products determining the molecular mass of each member of the plurality of restriction digest products generating a fragment coverage map from the molecular masses and comparing the fragment coverage map with a plurality of theoretical fragment coverage maps contained in a database stored on a computer readable medium.

The present invention is also directed to primer pair compositions used to amplify mitochondrial DNA for the forensic method and to isolated mitochondrial DNA amplicons obtained by amplification of mitochondrial DNA with the primer pair compositions.

The present invention provides inter alia methods for forensic analysis of mitochondrial DNA. A region of mitochondrial DNA which contains on or more restriction sites is selected to provide optimal distinguishing capability which enables forensic conclusions to be drawn. A relational database of known mitochondrial DNA sequences is then populated with the results of theoretical restriction digestion reactions. One or more primer pairs are then selected to amplify the region of mitochondrial DNA and amplification product is digested with one or more restriction enzymes which are chosen to yield restriction fragments of up to about 150 base pairs that are amenable to molecular mass analysis. The molecular masses of all of the restriction fragments are then measured and the results are compared with the results calculated for the theoretical restriction digestions of all of the entries in the relational database. The results of the comparison enable a forensic conclusion to be drawn.

In one embodiment more than one region can be analyzed to draw a forensic conclusion via a triangulation strategy. For example it is possible that analysis of one region of DNA obtained from a crime scene yields several possible matches to entries in a relational database. In this case depending on the objective of the individual forensic analysis it may be advantageous to carry out one or more additional analyses of different mtDNA regions. Examples of such mtDNA regions include but are not limited to a portion of HV1 HV2 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 R6 R7 R8 R9 R10 R1 and R12 coordinates for each of these defined regions relative to the Anderson Sequence are given in Table 2 . Thus in this embodiment any combination of two or more regions of mtDNA are used to provide optimal distinguishing capability and provide an improved confidence level for the forensic analysis.

In another embodiment the relational database of known mitochondrial DNA sequences is populated with base compositions of the theoretical restriction fragments obtained from theoretical digestion of each member of the database. Then the base compositions of each of the restriction fragments of the experimentally determined molecular masses are determined. The analysis may then end with a comparison of the experimentally determined base compositions with the base compositions of the theoretical digestions of each member of the database so that at least one base composition match or lack of a base composition match provides a forensic conclusion.

In another embodiment one or more restriction enzymes which are chosen to yield restriction fragments of up to about 50 base pairs of up to about 100 base pairs of up to about 150 base pairs of up to about 200 base pairs or of up to about 250 base pairs that are amenable to molecular mass analysis.

In another embodiment the molecular masses of all or most i.e. about 75 about 80 about 90 about 99 or every fragment minus one fragment of the restriction fragments are then measured and the results are compared with the results calculated for the theoretical restriction digestions of all of the entries in the relational database.

In some embodiments the amplifying step is accomplished by using the polymerase chain reaction and a polymerase chain reaction is catalyzed by a polymerase enzyme whose function is modified relative to a native polymerase. In some embodiments the modified polymerase enzyme is exo Pfu polymerase which catalyzes the addition of nucleotide residues to staggered restriction digest products to convert the staggered digest products to blunt ended digest products.

Although the use of PCR is suitable other nucleic acid amplification techniques may also be used including ligase chain reaction LCR and strand displacement amplification SDA .

Mass spectrometry MS based detection of PCR products provides a means for determination of BCS which has several advantages. MS is intrinsically a parallel detection scheme without the need for radioactive or fluorescent labels since every amplification product is identified by its molecular mass. The current state of the art in mass spectrometry is such that less than femtomole quantities of material can be readily analyzed to afford information about the molecular contents of the sample. An accurate assessment of the molecular mass of the material can be quickly obtained irrespective of whether the molecular weight of the sample is several hundred or in excess of one hundred thousand atomic mass units amu or Daltons. Intact molecular ions can be generated from amplification products using one of a variety of ionization techniques to convert the sample to gas phase. These ionization methods include but are not limited to electrospray ionization ES matrix assisted laser desorption ionization MALDI and fast atom bombardment FAB . For example MALDI of nucleic acids along with examples of matrices for use in MALDI of nucleic acids are described in WO 98 54751. The accurate measurement of molecular mass for large DNAs is limited by the adduction of cations from the PCR reaction to each strand resolution of the isotopic peaks from natural abundance C and N isotopes and assignment of the charge state for any ion. The cations are removed by in line dialysis using a flow through chip that brings the solution containing the PCR products into contact with a solution containing ammonium acetate in the presence of an electric field gradient orthogonal to the flow. The latter two problems are addressed by operating with a resolving power of 100 000 and by incorporating isotopically depleted nucleotide triphosphates into the DNA. The resolving power of the instrument is also a consideration. At a resolving power of 10 000 the modeled signal from the M 14H charge state of an 84 mer PCR product is poorly characterized and assignment of the charge state or exact mass is impossible. At a resolving power of 33 000 the peaks from the individual isotopic components are visible. At a resolving power of 100 000 the isotopic peaks are resolved to the baseline and assignment of the charge state for the ion is straightforward. The C N depleted triphosphates are obtained for example by growing microorganisms on depleted media and harvesting the nucleotides Batey et al. 1992 20 4515 4523 .

While mass measurements of intact nucleic acid regions are believed to be adequate tandem mass spectrometry MS techniques may provide more definitive information pertaining to molecular identity or sequence. Tandem MS involves the coupled use of two or more stages of mass analysis where both the separation and detection steps are based on mass spectrometry. The first stage is used to select an ion or component of a sample from which further structural information is to be obtained. The selected ion is then fragmented using e.g. blackbody irradiation infrared multiphoton dissociation or collisional activation. For example ions generated by electrospray ionization ESI can be fragmented using IR multiphoton dissociation. This activation leads to dissociation of glycosidic bonds and the phosphate backbone producing two series of fragment ions called the w series having an intact 3 terminus and a 5 phosphate following internal cleavage and the a Base series having an intact 5 terminus and a 3 furan .

The second stage of mass analysis is then used to detect and measure the mass of these resulting fragments of product ions. Such ion selection followed by fragmentation routines can be performed multiple times so as to essentially completely dissect the molecular sequence of a sample.

If there are two or more targets of similar molecular mass or if a single amplification reaction results in a product which has the same mass as two or more reference standards they can be distinguished by using mass modifying tags. In this embodiment of the invention a nucleotide analog or tag is incorporated during amplification e.g. a 5 trifluoromethyl deoxythymidine triphosphate which has a different molecular weight than the unmodified base so as to improve distinction of masses. Such tags are described in for example PCT WO97 33000 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This further limits the number of possible base compositions consistent with any mass. For example 5 trifluoromethyl deoxythymidine triphosphate can be used in place of dTTP in a separate nucleic acid amplification reaction. Measurement of the mass shift between a conventional amplification product and the tagged product is used to quantitate the number of thymidine nucleotides in each of the single strands. Because the strands are complementary the number of adenosine nucleotides in each strand is also determined.

In another amplification reaction the number of G and C residues in each strand is determined using for example the cytidine analog 5 methylcytosine 5 meC or 5 prolynylcytosine. propyne C. The combination of the A T reaction and G C reaction followed by molecular weight determination provides a unique base composition. This method is summarized in and Table 1.

The mass tag phosphorothioate A A was used to distinguish a cluster. The AGClT had an average MW of 14072.26 and the AA GCT had an average molecular weight of 14281.11 and the phosphorothioate A had an average molecular weight of 16.06 as determined by ESI TOF MS. The deconvoluted spectra are shown in .

In another example assume the measured molecular masses of each strand are 30 000.115 Da and 31 000.115 Da respectively and the measured number of dT and dA residues are 30 28 and 28 30 . If the molecular mass is accurate to 100 ppm there are 7 possible combinations of dG dC possible for each strand. However if the measured molecular mass is accurate to 10 ppm there are only 2 combinations of dG dC and at 1 ppm accuracy there is only one possible base composition for each strand.

Signals from the mass spectrometer may be input to a maximum likelihood detection and classification algorithm such as is widely used in radar signal processing. Processing may end with a Bayesian classifier using log likelihood ratios developed from the observed signals and average background levels. Background signal strengths are estimated and used along with the matched filters to form signatures which are then subtracted. the maximum likelihood process is applied to this cleaned up data in a similar manner employing matched filters and a running sum estimate of the noise covariance for the cleaned up data.

In some embodiments the mitochondrial DNA analyzed is human mitochondrial DNA obtained from human saliva hair blood or nail. In other embodiments the DNA analyzed can be obtained from an animal a fungus a parasite or a protozoan.

The present invention also comprises primer pairs which are designed to bind to highly conserved sequence regions mitochondrial DNA that flank an intervening variable region such as the variable sections found within regions HV1 HV2 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 R6 R7 R8 R9 R10 R11 and R12 and yield amplification products which ideally provide enough variability to provide a forensic conclusion and which are amenable to molecular mass analysis. By the term highly conserved it is meant that the sequence regions exhibit from about 80 to 100 or from about 90 to 100 or from about 95 to 100 identity or from about 80 to 99 or from about 90 to 99 or from about 95 to 99 identity. The molecular mass of a given amplification product provides a means of drawing a forensic conclusion due to the variability of the variable region. Thus design of primers involves selection of a variable section with optimal variability in the mtDNA of different individuals.

In some embodiments each member of the pair has at least 70 at least 80 at least 90 at least 95 or at least 99 sequence identity with the sequence of the corresponding member of any one or more of the following primer pair sequences SEQ ID NOs 8 9 10 11 12 13 12 14 12 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 42 46 47 48 18 49 50 51 22 52 53 54 55 56 57 29 58 31 59 60 61 62 63 39 40 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 12 68 12 70 67 15 71 70 69 15 and 69 68.

In some embodiments the region of mitochondrial DNA comprises HV1 each member of the primer pair has at least 70 sequence identity with the sequence of the corresponding member of any one of the following primer pair sequences SEQ ID NOs 12 13 12 14 12 15 16 17 42 43 42 46 67 68 69 70 12 68 12 70 67 15 71 70 69 15 or 69 68 and the restriction enzyme is RsaI.

In some embodiments the region of mitochondrial DNA comprises HV2 each member of the primer pair has at least 70 sequence identity with the sequence of the corresponding member of any one of the following primer pair sequences SEQ ID NOs 8 9 10 11 16 17 or 65 66 and the at least one restriction enzyme is HaeIII HpaII MfeI or SspI or HpaII HpyCH4IV PacI or EaeI.

In some embodiments the region of mitochondrial DNA comprises region R1 each member of the primer pair has at least 70 sequence identity with the sequence of the corresponding member of any one of the following primer pair sequences SEQ ID NOs 18 19 and 18 49 at least one restriction enzyme is DdeI MseI HaeIII or MboI.

In some embodiments the region of mitochondrial DNA comprises region R2 each member of the primer pair has at least 70 sequence identity with the sequence of the corresponding member of any one of the following primer pair sequences SEQ ID NOs 20 21 and 50 51 and at least one restriction enzyme is DdeI HaeIII MboI or MseI.

In some embodiments the region of mitochondrial DNA comprises region R3 each member of the primer pair has at least 70 sequence identity with the sequence of the corresponding member of any one of the following primer pair sequences SEQ ID NOs 22 23 and 22 52 and at least one restriction enzyme is DdeI MseI MboI or BanI.

In some embodiments the region of mitochondrial DNA comprises region R4 each member of the primer pair has at least 70 sequence identity with the sequence of the corresponding member of any one of the following primer pair sequences SEQ ID NOs 24 25 and 53 54 and at least one restriction enzyme is DdeI HpyCH4IV MseI or HaeIII.

In some embodiments the region of mitochondrial DNA comprises region R5 each member of said primer pair has at least 70 sequence identity with the sequence of the corresponding member of any one of the following primer pair sequences SEQ ID NOs 26 27 and 55 56 and at least one restriction enzyme is AluI BfaI or MseI.

In some embodiments the region of mitochondrial DNA comprises region R6 each member of the primer pair has at least 70 sequence identity with the sequence of the corresponding member of any one of the following primer pair sequences SEQ ID NOs 28 29 and 57 29 and at least one restriction enzyme is DdeI HaeIII MboI MseI or RsaI.

In some embodiments the region of mitochondrial DNA comprises region R7 each member of said primer pair has at least 70 sequence identity with the sequence of the corresponding member of any one of the following primer pair sequences SEQ ID NOs 30 31 and 58 31 and at least one restriction enzyme is DdeI HpaII HaeIII or MseI.

In some embodiments the region of mitochondrial DNA comprises region R8 each member of the primer pair has at least 70 sequence identity with the sequence of the corresponding member of any one of the following primer pair sequences SEQ ID NOs 32 33 and 59 60 and at least one restriction enzyme is BfaI DdeI EcoRI or MboI.

In some embodiments the region of mitochondrial DNA comprises region R9 each member of the primer pair has at least 70 sequence identity with the sequence of the corresponding member of the following primer pair sequences SEQ ID NOs 34 35 and at least one restriction enzyme is BfaI DdeI HpaII HpyCH4IV or MboI.

In some embodiments the region of mitochondrial DNA comprises region R10 each member of the primer pair has at least 70 sequence identity with the sequence of the corresponding member of the following primer pair sequences SEQ ID NOs 34 35 and at least one restriction enzyme is BfaI HpaII or MboI.

In some embodiments the region of mitochondrial DNA comprises region R10 each member of the primer pair has at least 70 sequence identity with the sequence of the corresponding member of the following primer pair sequences SEQ ID NOs 36 37 and 61 62 and at least one restriction enzyme is BfaI HpaII or MboI.

In some embodiments the region of mitochondrial DNA comprises region R11 each member of the primer pair has at least 70 sequence identity with the sequence of the corresponding member of the following primer pair sequences SEQ ID NOs 38 39 and 63 39 and at least one restriction enzyme is BfaI DdeI HpyCH4V or MboI.

In some embodiments the region of mitochondrial DNA comprises region R12 each member of the primer pair has at least 70 sequence identity with the sequence of the corresponding member of the following primer pair sequences SEQ ID NOs 40 41 and 40 64 and at least one restriction enzyme is BfaI DdeI or MseI.

Ideally primer hybridization sites are highly conserved in order to facilitate the hybridization of the primer. In cases where primer hybridization is less efficient due to lower levels of conservation of sequence the primers of the present invention can be chemically modified to improve the efficiency of hybridization. For example because any variation due to codon wobble in the 3position in these conserved regions among species is likely to occur in the third position of a DNA triplet oligonucleotide primers can be designed such that the nucleotide corresponding to this position is a base which can bind to more than one nucleotide referred to herein as a universal base. For example under this wobble pairing inosine I binds to U C or A guanine G binds to U or C and uridine U binds to U or C. Other examples of universal bases include nitroindoles such as 5 nitroindole or 3 nitropyrrole Loakes et al. 1995 14 1001 1003 the degenerate nucleotides dP or dK Hill et al. an acyclic nucleoside analog containing 5 nitroindazole Van Aerschot et al. 1995 14 1053 1056 or the purine analog 1 2 deoxy D ribofuranosyl imidazole 4 carboxamide Sala et al. 1996 24 3302 3306 .

In another embodiment of the invention to compensate for the somewhat weaker binding by the wobble base the oligonucleotide primers are designed such that the first and second positions of each triplet are occupied by nucleotide analogs which bind with greater affinity than the unmodified nucleotide. Examples of these analogs include but are not limited to 2 6 diaminopurine which binds to thymine propyne T 5 propynyluridine which binds to adenine and propyne C 5 propynylcytidine and phenoxazines including G clamp which binds to G. Propynylated pyrimidines are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 645 985 5 830 653 and 5 484 908 each of which is commonly owned and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Propynylated primers are claimed in U.S. Ser. No. 10 294 203 which is also commonly owned and incorporated herein by reference in entirety. Phenoxazines are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 502 177 5 763 588 and 6 005 096 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. G clamps are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 007 992 and 6 028 183 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Thus In other embodiments the primer pair has at least one modified nucleobase such as 5 propynylcytidine or 5 propynyluridine.

The present invention also comprises isolated mitochondrial DNA amplicons which are produced by the process of amplification of a sample of mitochondrial DNA with any of the above mentioned primers.

While the present invention has been described with specificity in accordance with certain of its embodiments the following examples serve only to illustrate the invention and are not intended to limit the same.

General Genomic DNA Sample Prep Protocol Raw samples were filtered using Supor 200 0.2 m membrane syringe filters VWR International . Samples were transferred to 1.5 ml eppendorf tubes pre filled with 0.45 g of 0.7 mm Zirconia beads followed by the addition of 350 l of ATL buffer Qiagen Valencia Calif. . The samples were subjected to bead beating for 10 minutes at a frequency of 19 l s in a Retsch Vibration Mill Retsch . After centrifugation samples were transferred to an S block plate Qiagen Valencia Calif. and DNA isolation was completed with a BioRobot 8000 nucleic acid isolation robot Qiagen Valencia Calif. .

Isolation of Blood DNA Blood DNA was isolated using an MDx Biorobot according to according to the manufacturer s recommended procedure Isolation of blood DNA on Qiagen QIAamp DNA Blood BioRobot MDx Kit Qiagen Valencia Calif. 

Isolation of Buccal Swab DNA Since the manufacturer does not support a full robotic swab protocol the blood DNA isolation protocol was employed after each swab was first suspended in 400 ml PBS 400 ml Qiagen AL buffer 20 l Qiagen Protease solution in 14 ml round bottom falcon tubes which were then loaded into the tube holders on the MDx robot.

Isolation of DNA from Nails and Hairs The following procedure employs a Qiagen DNeasy tissue kit and represents a modification of the manufacturer s suggested procedure hairs or nails were cut into small segments with sterile scissors or razorblades and placed in a centrifuge tube to which was added 1 ml of sonication wash buffer 10 mM TRIS Cl pH 8.0 10 mM EDTA 0.5 Tween 20. The solution was sonicated for 20 minutes to dislodge debris and then washed 2 with 1 ml ultrapure double deionized water before addition of 100 l of Buffer X1 10 mM TRIS Cl ph 8.0 10 mM EDTA 100 mM NaCl 40 mM DTT 2 SDS 250 g ml Qiagen proteinase K . The sample was then incubated at 55 C. for 1 2 hours after which 200 l of Qiagen AL buffer and 210 l isopropanol were added and the solution was mixed by vortexing. The sample was then added to a Qiagen DNeasy mini spin column placed in a 2 ml collection tube and centrifuged for 1 min at 6000 g 8000 rpm . Collection tube and flow through were discarded. The spin column was transferred to a new collection tube and 500 l of buffer AW2 was added before centrifuging for 3 min. at 20 000 g 14 000 rpm to dry the membrane. For elution 50 100 l of buffer AE was pipetted directly onto the DNeasy membrane and eluted by centrifugation 6000 g 8000 rpm after incubation at room temperature for 1 min.

Amplification by PCR An exemplary PCR procedure for amplification of mitochondrial DNA is the following A 50 l total volume reaction mixture contained 1 GenAmp PCR buffer II Applied Biosystems 10 mM TRIS Cl pH 8.3 and 50 mM KCl 1.5 mM MgCl 400 mM betaine 200 M of each dNTP Stratagene 200415 250 nM of each primer and 2.5 5 units of Pfu exo polymerase Gold Stratagene 600163 and at least 50 pg of template DNA. All PCR solution mixing was performed under a HEPA filtered positive pressure PCR hood. An example of a programmable PCR cycling profile is as follows 95 C. for 10 minutes followed by 8 cycles of 95 C. for 20 sec 62 C. for 20 sec and 72 C. for 30 sec wherein the 62 C. annealing step is decreased by 1 C. on each successive cycle of the 8 cycles followed by 28 cycles of 95 C. for 20 sec 55 C. for 20 sec and 72 C. for 30 sec followed by holding at 4 C. Development and optimization of PCR reactions is routine to one with ordinary skill in the art and can be accomplished without undue experimentation.

Reaction Conditions The standard restriction digest reaction conditions outlined herein are applicable to all panels of restriction enzymes. The PCR reaction mixture is diluted into 2 NEB buffer 1 BSA and 1 l of each enzyme per 50 l of reaction mixture is added. The mixture is incubated at 37 C. for 1 hour followed by 72 C. for 15 minutes. Restriction digest enzyme panels for HV1 HV2 and twelve additional regions of mitochondrial DNA are indicated in Table 2.

Procedure for Semi automated Purification of a PCR mixture using Commercially Available ZipTips As described by Jiang and Hofstadler Y. Jiang and S. A. Hofstadler 2003 316 50 57 an amplified nucleic acid mixture can be purified by commercially available pipette tips containing anion exchange resin. For pre treatment of ZipTips AX Millipore Corp. Bedford Mass. the following steps were programmed to be performed by an Evolution P3 liquid handler Perkin Elmer with fluids being drawn from stock solutions in individual wells of a 96 well plate Marshall Bioscience loading of a rack of ZipTips AX washing of ZipTips AX with 15 l of 10 NHOH 50 methanol washing of ZipTips AX with 15 l of water 8 times washing of ZipTips AX with 15 l of 100 mM NHOAc.

For purification of a PCR mixture 20 l of crude PCR product was transferred to individual wells of a MJ Research plate using a BioHit Helsinki Finland multichannel pipette. Individual wells of a 96 well plate were filled with 300 l of 40 mM NHHCO. Individual wells of a 96 well plate were filled with 300 l of 20 methanol. An MJ research plate was filled with 10 l of 4 NHOH. Two reservoirs were filled with deionized water. All plates and reservoirs were placed on the deck of the Evolution P3 EP3 Perkin Elmer Boston Mass. pipetting station in pre arranged order. The following steps were programmed to be performed by an Evolution P3 pipetting station aspiration of 20 l of air into the EP3 P50 head loading of a pre treated rack of ZipTips AX into the EP3 P50 head dispensation of the 20 l NHHCOfrom the ZipTips AX loading of the PCR product into the ZipTips AX by aspiration dispensation of the PCR solution 18 times washing of the ZipTips AX containing bound nucleic acids with 15 l of 40 mM NHHCO8 times washing of the ZipTips AX containing bound nucleic acids with 15 l of 20 methanol 24 times elution of the purified nucleic acids from the ZipTips AX by aspiration dispensation with 15 l of 4 NHOH 18 times. For final preparation for analysis by ESI MS each sample was diluted 1 1 by volume with 70 methanol containing 50 mM piperidine and 50 mM imidazole.

Procedure for Semi Automated Purification of a PCR mixture with Solution Capture The following procedure is disclosed in a U.S. patent application filed on May 12 2004 for pre treatment of ProPac WAX weak anion exchange resin the following steps were performed in bulk sequential washing three times 10 1 volume ratio of buffer to resin with each of the following solutions 1 1.0 M formic acid 50 methanol 2 20 methanol 3 10 NHOH 4 20 methanol 5 40 mM NHHCO and 6 100 mM NHOAc. The resin is stored in 20 mM NHOAc 50 methanol at 4 C.

Corning 384 well glass fiber filter plates were pre treated with two rinses of 250 l NHOH and two rinses of 100 l NHHCO.

For binding of the PCR product nucleic acids to the resin the following steps were programmed to be performed by the Evolution P3 liquid handler addition of 0.05 to 10 l of pre treated ProPac WAX weak anion exchange resin 30 l of a 1 60 dilution to a 50 l PCR reaction mixture 80 l total volume in a 96 well plate mixing of the solution by aspiration dispensation for 2.5 minutes and transfer of the solution to a pre treated Corning 384 well glass fiber filter plate. This step was followed by centrifugation to remove liquid from the resin and is performed manually or under the control of a robotic arm.

The resin containing nucleic acids was then washed by rinsing three times with 200 l of 100 mM NHOAc 200 l of 40 mM NHHCOwith removal of buffer by centrifugation for about 15 seconds followed by rinsing three times with 20 methanol for about 15 seconds. The final rinse was followed by an extended centrifugation step 1 2 minutes .

Elution of the nucleic acids from the resin was accomplished by addition of 40 l elution electrospray buffer 25 mM piperidine 25 mM imidazole 35 methanol and 50 nM of an internal standard oligonucleotide for calibration of mass spectrometry signals followed by elution from the 384 well filter plate into a 384 well catch plate by centrifugation. The eluted nucleic acids in this condition were amenable to analysis by ESI MS. The time required for purification of samples in a single 96 well plate using a liquid handler is approximately five minutes.

The mass spectrometer used is a Bruker Daltonics Billerica Mass. Apex II 70e electrospray ionization Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometer ESI FTICR MS that employs an actively shielded 7 Tesla superconducting magnet. All aspects of pulse sequence control and data acquisition were performed on a 1.1 GHz Pentium II data station running Bruker s Xmass software. 20 L sample aliquots were extracted directly from 96 well microtiter plates using a CTC HTS PAL autosampler LEAP Technologies Carrboro N.C. triggered by the data station. Samples were injected directly into the ESI source at a flow rate of 75 L hr. Ions were formed via electrospray ionization in a modified Analytica Branford Conn. source employing an off axis grounded electrospray probe positioned ca. 1.5 cm from the metalized terminus of a glass desolvation capillary. The atmospheric pressure end of the glass capillary is biased at 6000 V relative to the ESI needle during data acquisition. A counter current flow of dry N Owas employed to assist in the desolvation process. Ions were accumulated in an external ion reservoir comprised of an rf only hexapole a skimmer cone and an auxiliary gate electrode prior to injection into the trapped ion cell where they were mass analyzed.

Spectral acquisition was performed in the continuous duty cycle mode whereby ions were accumulated in the hexapole ion reservoir simultaneously with ion detection in the trapped ion cell. Following a 1.2 ms transfer event in which ions were transferred to the trapped ion cell the ions were subjected to a 1.6 ms chirp excitation corresponding to 8000 500 m z. Data was acquired over an m z range of 500 5000 IM data points over a 225K Hz bandwidth . Each spectrum was the result of co adding 32 transients. Transients were zero filled once prior to the magnitude mode Fourier transform and post calibration using the internal mass standard. The ICR 2LS software package G. A. Anderson J. E. Bruce Pacific Northwest National Laboratory Richland Wash. 1995 was used to deconvolute the mass spectra and calculate the mass of the monoisotopic species using an averaging fitting routine M. W. Senko S. C. Beu F. W. McLafferty 1995 6 229 modified for DNA. Using this approach monoisotopic molecular weights were calculated.

Conventional forensic mitochondrial DNA analysis typically involves amplification and sequencing of the two hypervariable regions within the non coding control region known as HV1 and HV2. The present invention comprises primer pairs for amplification of informative regions within HV1 and HV2 SEQ ID NOs 8 17 42 48 and 65 71 in Table 3 . Additional individual discriminating power has been obtained by the selection for analysis of 12 additional non control regions Regions R1 R12 from which informative amplification products of approximately 630 840 bp each can be obtained using additional primer pairs SEQ ID NOs 18 41 and 49 70 in Table 3 . The primers listed below in Table 3 are generally 10 50 nucleotides in length 15 35 nucleotides in length or 18 30 nucleotides in length.

By convention human mtDNA sequences are described using the first complete and published mtDNA sequence as a reference Anderson S. et al. 1981 290 457 465 . This sequence is commonly referred to as the Anderson sequence. Primer pair names on Table 3 indicate the mtDNA amplicon coordinates with reference to the Anderson mtDNA sequence GenBank Accession No. NC001807.3 SEQ ID NO 72 . For example primer pairs 8 9 produce an amplicon which corresponds to positions 76 353 of the Anderson sequence.

Ten different blinded samples of human DNA provided by the FBI were subjected to rapid mtDNA analysis by the method of the present invention according to the process illustrated in . After amplification of human mtDNA by PCR 210 the PCR products were subjected to restriction digestion 220 with RsaI for HV1 and a combination of HpaII HpyCH4IV PacI and EaeI for HV2 in order to obtain amplicon segments suitable for analysis by mass spectrometry 230 . The data were processed to obtain mass data for each amplicon fragment 240 from which a fragment coverage map was generated an example of a fragment coverage map is shown in FIG. represented as a series of horizontal bars beneath the mass spectrum . The fragment coverage map was then compared using a scoring scheme to fragment coverage maps calculated for theoretical digests from mtDNA sequences in the FBI mtDNA database 250 .

A group of 10 blinded DNA samples was provided by the FBI. HV1 and HV2 primer pairs were selected from a sequence alignment created by translating the FBI s forensic mtDNA database back into full sequences via comparison to the Anderson reference then selecting primers within the full representation core of the alignment and restriction enzymes that will cleave the 280 and 292 bp PCR products into mass spectrometry compatible fragments. Primer pairs selected for amplification of HV1 segments were SEQ ID NOs 12 14 and 42 43. Primer pairs selected for amplification of HV2 segments were SEQ ID NOs 8 9 and 44 45 Table 3 . PCR amplification was carried out as indicated in Example 1 with the exception that 2 mM MgClwas included instead of 1.5 mM MgCl and that 4 units of Amplitaq Gold polymerase Applied Biosystems was included instead of 2.5 units of Pfu exo polymerase. 3 l of FBI DNA sample were included in the reaction. Thermal cycler parameters were as follows 96 C. for 10 min. followed by 45 cycles of the following 96 C. for 30 sec 54 C. for 30 sec. and 72 C. for 30 sec. after which the reaction was kept at 72 C. for 5 minutes.

Theoretical digestions of the 2754 unambiguous unique sequences contained within the 4840 FBI sequence entries there are 399 sequences in the FBI database which contain at least one ambiguous base call within the amplified regions leading to 4441 unambiguous sequences 2754 of which are unique with all possible products resulting from incomplete digestion were performed and fragment start and end coordinates base composition mass and end chemistry were stored in a data structure for subsequent fragment pattern reconstruction. A deconvolved list of monoisotopic exact mass determinations from ICR 2LSwas determined for each restriction digestion for each blinded sample. For each sample expected digestion fragment masses were matched to observed masses with a threshold of 4 ppm for each database entry 1 ppm match error is defined as a difference between observed and expected mass equal to one millionth of the expected mass .

To evaluate the ability of a single pass MS based assay to exclude known database entries as having base compositions that are different than that of an unknown sample a scoring system was devised that for a given input sample assigns each database sequence a score relative to the highest scoring sequence. To evaluate whether base composition of mtDNA fragments can achieve a discrimination power approaching that of sequencing the ten blinded samples of human DNA from the FBI were analyzed. The overall consistency of the observed digestion products with the expected fragment pattern for each of the 4840 database entries was scored using the sum of four values 1. The total number of observed masses accounted for in the expected fragment list 2. The percentage of expected fragments observed for a complete digestion 3. A floating percentage of expected fragments matched where matches to incomplete digestion fragments were scored percentage point and the total number of expected fragments was incremented by for each observed incomplete digestion fragment and 4. The percentage of sequence positions accounted for by matches with observed masses. Scores for the HV1 and HV2 regions were summed to produce a total score for each entry. Database entries were sorted by high score and assigned a final score as a percentage of the top score. An arbitrary but conservative scoring threshold of 80 of the top score was set to produce a very conservative lower bound on the percentage of database entries that could be excluded as consistent with each sample.

Without knowing the true sequence of the initial ten samples and allowing for slight experimental variations in restriction digestions and mass spectrometry comparison to a large collection of database entries enabled exclusion of a vast majority of entries in the database. Table 4 shows an example of the scoring output for one sample sample 4 and summarizes the exclusion percentages for each of the blinded samples for a set of reactions run side by side on a single day. The HV1 and HV2 regions of each sample were sequenced following the analysis described in this work for final verification. Table 4 summaries the overall results of this exercise for this preliminary data analysis.

Table 4 illustrates the example of scoring sample 3 against the mtDNA database of 4441 entries 4840 original FBI mtDNA entries minus the 399 sequences containing ambiguous base calls . The total combined score for the HV1 and HV2 regions is shown in the column entitled cumulative score . All entries are given a score relative to the highest cumulative score in the column max score . Database entry titles are in the column DB entries. Sequences whose HV1 and HV2 PCR products are identical are grouped into bins with entry titles separated by vertical lines. The cut off point for this exercise was defined as 80 of the top cumulative score. The two bins that define this boundary are rows 47 and 48. The total number of database entries that fall below this threshold is 4347 or 97.9 .

Identification codes used in Table 4 are from the mtDNA population database Miller K W Budowle B. 2001 42 3 315 27 . AFR African CAU Caucasian ASN Asian CHN Chinese HIS Hispanic AUT Austrian EGY Egypt FRA France GRC Greece SKE Sierra Leone.

Forensic analysis of human mtDNA by mass spectrometry presents a number of challenges. First PCR amplification reactions may result in non templated additions of adenosine to the 3 end of the template. When this occurs mass spectrum signals become mixed and detection sensitivity is lowered. Second the process of carrying out several purification steps to convert a PCR amplification mixture to appropriate specific buffer conditions required for specific restriction digests results in significant sample loss. Lastly a significant subset of useful restriction endonuclease enzymes yield double stranded digest products with staggered ends. This occurrence has the effect of complicating the process of restriction pattern analysis and limits the choice of restriction endonucleases to those that only generate blunt ended digestion products.

These complications have been solved by the use of exo Pfu polymerase Stratagene La Jolla Calif. a 3 5 exonuclease deleted Pfu polymerase. The mass spectra of indicate that the use of exo Pfu polymerase prevents the addition of non templated adenosine residues and 3 end deletions which are normally observed when standard pfu polymerases are used. The resulting product exhibited a strong signal in the mass spectrum. On the other hand use of the commonly used Amplitaq gold polymerase Applied Biosystems did not circumvent this problem . An additional advantage obtained through the use of exo Pfu polymerase is that there is no need for purification of the PCR product. The PCR product mixture can be easily modified with appropriate restriction enzyme activating buffer which is also compatible with the exo Pfu polymerase.

A further additional advantage obtained from the avoidance of a purification procedure is that exo Pfu polymerase remains viable throughout the subsequent restriction digest process and this remaining polymerase activity can be used to add leftover dNTPs to convert staggered restriction products to blunt ended products by filling in the missing nucleotide residues.

Thus crude PCR products are directly subjected to the restriction digestion process minimizing time sample handling and potential contamination. indicates that exo Pfu polymerase is effective for consistent amplification of mtDNA obtained from blood fingernail and saliva samples. PCR conditions for this experiment were as follows A 50 l reaction volume contained the following 10 mM TRIS HCl 50 mM KCl MgCl 200 M deoxynucleotide triphosphates 400 mM betaine 200 nM primers 4 units of Amplitaq Gold or 5 units exo Pfu polymerase and mtDNA template and was subjected to incubation at 95 C. for 10 minutes first then 35 cycles of the following thermal sequence 95 C. for 20 seconds 52 C. for 20 seconds 72 C. for 30 seconds. Following the 35 cycles the reaction was incubated at 72 C. for 4 minutes.

To take advantage of the modified function of the exo Pfu polymerase the experimental method was modified as follows upon completion of amplification of mtDNA restriction endonucleases were added to the amplification mixture which was then incubated for 1 hour at 37 C. The temperature of the mixture was then raised to 37 C. for 15 minutes to activate the exo Pfu polymerase and enable the addition of nucleotides to staggered ends to produce the blunt ends which facilitate pattern analysis.

As discussed above the ability of exo Pfu polymerase provides the means of expanding the number of restriction endonucleases that are compatible with the present method and simplifying data processing by simplifying restriction digest patterns. Shown in is the result of a comparison of digest patterns obtained when the originally chosen restriction enzymes EaeI and PacI are replaced with HaeIII and HpyCH4V. The pattern obtained using the newly chosen enzymes clearly results in a restriction digest pattern with better spacing of conserved restriction sites which facilitates analysis. Shown in is the result of a gel electrophoresis analysis of the products of restriction digests. In this experiment a HV2 amplicon from a human mtDNA sample designated Seracare N31773. The mtDNA sample was amplified with Amplitaq Gold in 50 l reaction volumes where 25 l of PCR reaction was diluted up to 50 l in 1 NEB restriction buffer 1 10 mM Bis TRIS Propane HCl 10 mM MgCl 1 mM DTT pH 7.0 at 25 C. 1 NEB BSA and separately 100 mg l in 1 l volumes of each enzyme as follows EaeI 3 units HpyCH4IV 10 units HpyCH4V 5 units HpaII 10 units PacI 10 units and HaeIII 10 units. The mixtures were incubated for 1 hour at 37 C. before analysis in 4 agarose gel.

Restriction endonucleases MfeI and SspI are both useful alternatives to HpyCH4V and HpyCH4IV respectively because they cleave at similar positions and cost significantly less than HpyCH4V and HpyCH4IV.

Cheek swabs were obtained from 16 volunteer donors. Genomic DNA was isolated from the cheek swabs on a Qiagen MDx robot according to procedures outlined in Example 1. Final elution volumes were 160 l for each well. 2 l template was used in each PCR reaction which was run according to Example 1 except that the following cycling parameters were used 95 C. for 10 minutes followed by 45 cycles of 95 C. for 20 sec 52 C. for 20 sec and 72 C. for 30 sec followed by holding at 72 C. for 4 minutes. Primer pairs used for HV1 were SEQ ID NOs 12 15 and for HV2 SEQ ID NOs 8 9.

PCR products not shown were digested with RsaI HV1 or HaeIII HpaII HpyCH4IV and HpyCH4V HV2 according to the procedure outlined in Example 2.

Restriction digests were performed in duplicate with each duplicate swab followed by mass determination of the amplicon fragments by mass spectrometry as described in Example 3. Samples were qualitatively scored for HV1 and HV2 against each unique database entry by the sum of 

Table 5 shows that for the majority of the 16 samples the ethnic designation of the majority of top scoring entries from the FBI database coincide with the ethnic background of the donor. In general mtDNA sequence data cannot be used to reliably associate a sample to the ethnic background of the donor because the mitochondria follow the maternal line exclusively and ethnic mixing in populations increases as the general population becomes increasingly genetically integrated. However as an overall assessment of the preliminary matching and scoring system this association served well because at the time of this evaluation mtDNA samples had not been sequenced. Two outliers in the association of donor ethnic background and major ethnic backgrounds of top database scores were samples 2 and 16. Sample 2 was an African American male with top database scores all designated USA.CAU.xxx . Upon inquiry it was learned that this donor has a Caucasian mother. Because mtDNA is inherited maternally the result appears valid.

Identification codes used in Table 5 are from the mtDNA population database Miller K W Budowle B. 2001 42 3 315 27 . AFR African CAU Caucasian ASN Asian CHN Chinese HIS Hispanic AUT Austrian GRC Greece. Code 335 USA.335 in the donor 13 entry refers to the U.S. territory of Guam.

Twelve regions of human mtDNA referred to as R1 R12 were selected for investigation based upon a relatively large number of differences between individual entries in 524 non control region human mitochondrial sequences obtained from Mitokor Inc. San Diego Calif. . The initial twelve primer pairs see Table 3 SEQ ID NOs 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 and 40 41 were tested upon 1.6 ng of human blood derived DNA Seracare blood sample N31773 which was isolated as indicated in Example 1.

The PCR protocol and cycling conditions are as described in Example 1 with the exception that 4 U of Amplitaq Gold polymerase Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. was used. The results of the reactions are shown in which indicates that reproducible amplicons were obtained for all twelve non control regions investigated.

Initial digestions with enzyme panels outlined in Example 2 were employed and coverage maps were assembled by matching observed masses at 4 ppm error to all sequences existing in the database as of Sep. 8 2003 524 Mitokor obtained sequences and 444 mtDNA genomes from GenBank.

The total number of unique sequences found within 968 predicted amplicon sequences from Mitokor and GenBank for each of the 12 non control region primer pairs shows that the greatest number of different sequences is found within regions R1 R3 R6 R7 and R9 Table 6 . When amplicon sequences are concatenated together as collinear sequences the combination of R1 R3 R6 and R7 comes out on top with 508 unique base count signatures out of 968 sequences predicted for the combination R1 R3 R6 R7 compared to 475 unique signatures predicted for the combination R1 R3 R9 R7. It was thus decided that regions R1 R3 R6 and R7 provide the best discriminating power. The numbers of unique sequences for each of these regions are denoted by an asterisk in Table 6.

The 12 regions were evaluated informatically by considering the total number of unique sequences in each region out of a database of 968 sequences 524 of which were obtained from Mitokor Inc and 444 of which are human mitochondrial genomes obtained from GenBank. Coordinates are given in terms of the Anderson sequence SEQ ID NO 72 . The number of unique base count signatures was determined by theoretical digestion of each of the 968 database sequences with the indicated enzymes.

To measure sensitivity against total human genomic DNA a preparation of DNA derived from whole human blood Seracare blood sample N31774 was obtained using the procedure of Example 1. A stock of blood derived DNA was quantitated to 1.6 0.06 ng l using the average of five independent concentration measurements taken with the Molecular Probes PicoGreen Assay P 7589. 10 fold serial dilutions of human DNA were tested in PCR reactions according to Example 1 using the primer pairs of SEQ ID NOs 12 15 HV1 and SEQ ID NOs 65 66 HV2 starting with 1.6 ng reaction and diluting to extinction as a set of stock dilutions in double deionized HO down to a calculated concentration of 160 zg reaction 10 orders of magnitude dilution . No carrier DNA was used in these reactions.

After digesting HV1 amplicons with RsaI and HV2 amplicons with HaeIII HpaII HpyCH4IV and HpyCH4V a full profile was recovered for HV2 with 16 pg input template and for HV1 with 160 pg input template. Subsequent experiments have demonstrated full profile recovery for HV1 down to at about 50 pg input template concentration with human DNA from the same source. This represents an estimated 8 to 10 cells worth of DNA.

To test our ability to detect mitochondrial DNA from human hair shafts and the specificity of our control region primer targets in the presence of non human mammalian DNA DNA was extracted from washed human hair shafts 8 4 2 1 and cm washed hamster dog and cat hair 4 6 cm and washed human 2 3 cm plus hamster dog or cat hair 4 6 cm present together in the same tube according to the protocol outlined in Example 1. Hairs were taken by cutting with scissors rather than pulling to avoid including a hair root in the reactions. PCR reactions were carried out using the primer pairs of SEQ ID NOs 12 15 HV1 and SEQ ID NOs 65 66 HV2 with PCR conditions as outlined in Example 1. Duplicate PCR reactions demonstrated the presence of a PCR product of the expected size in the presence of human hair derived DNA but not in the negative controls identical reactions but with double deionized HO substituted for template or with hamster dog or cat hair alone.

When these PCR were digested with RsaI HV1 and HaeIII HpaII HpyCH4IV and HpyCH4V HV2 as described in Example 2 a profile of base compositions matching Ibis internal blinded sample CS0022 was found for products amplified in the presence of animal hair and for human hair alone down to 2 cm.

In this experiment DNA was isolated from 3 pooled hairs of 2 3 cm length each from 3 donors designated F M and J according to procedures outlined in Example 1. DNA from Several 3 5 pooled small fingernail clippings was isolated from the same three donor according to Example 1 with the exception that there was no sonication step prior to DNA isolation as this step was added at a later time. DNA from 0.5 ml saliva was isolated from the same three donors according to Example 1. These three donors were also part of the 16 donor cheek swab panel described in Example 8 and processed data from cheek swabs representing these donors existed before this experiment and was used for comparison to the three new tissue samplings.

PCR reactions were performed using 1 l of template from each of the four sample preparations for each of the three donors according to Example 1 using primer pair SEQ ID NOs 12 15 HV1 and SEQ ID NOs 8 9 HV2 . Restriction digestions were performed according to Example 2. To determine a truth base for each sample for this experiment PCR reactions performed with primer pair SEQ ID NOs 12 15 HV1 and SEQ ID NOs 8 9 HV2 were purified with a QIAQuick PCR purification kit according to Qiagen kit recommendations and sequenced at Retrogen San Diego .

Digestion results for the original cheek swab derived products were first compared to the sequences determined for cheek swab derived amplicons for consistency. After confirming consistency between the determined sequence and the mass spectrometry derived fragment profile the ability to qualitatively exclude each of the samples from the other two was evaluated by matching the processed mass data for the cheek swab derived samples from each of the donors to theoretical digestions from the PCR derived sequences corresponding to the other two donors.

Processed mass spectrometry data for samples derived from the four different tissue sources were then compared to the cheek swab derived sequence for each donor individually and found to be consistent across the four tissue types with the exception that the HV2 length heteroplasmy observed in HV2 of both sample M and sample J was observed in only three of the four tissue samples. The length heteroplasmy was not observed in the hair derived sample for either M or J .

In this validation experiment 1 l of each of the 36 Ibis samples CS0001 CS0036 was PCR amplified in duplicate using each of the final primer pairs shown in Table 6 on two different days four reactions were performed on each sample using the cycling parameters in indicated in Example 1. shows one set of the 36 sample PCR reactions for the HV1 region. After PCR 25 l of each reaction were digested in 50 l restriction digestion reactions as described in Example 2. Samples from each of the 12 PCR plates were then subjected to mass spectrometry and processed with the ICR 2LS software to produce monoisotopic neutral masses. Each set of mass data was scanned against the database individually at 4 ppm matching threshold allowing for the possibility of a 1 dalton error on each mass determination.

One potential issue with the deconvolution from raw mass spectrometry data to exact mass determination is the potential for the algorithm that fits a theoretical isotopic distribution to an observed distribution can occasionally predict the best fit with the distribution shifted by exactly one Dalton to the right or to the left of the true distribution resulting in a mass determination that is exactly one Dalton off. This is not a serious issue when using mass data to verify consistency with a known sequence because the expected base composition is known and two independent measurements are made on each double stranded fragment where each strand top and bottom is linked to the other in a highly constrained manner because of base complementarity. When using deconvolved numerical masses to make de novo base composition predictions however this must be dealt with properly to ensure a proper interpretation of match data. For example the mass difference between an internal C and an internal T in a DNA sequence is 14.9997 Daltons. The mass difference between an internal G and an internal A is 15.9949 Daltons. Because of this the mass difference between two strands of DNA that differ exactly by C T G A is 0.9952 Daltons. Likewise the reverse T C A G is a difference of 0.9952 Daltons.

For this reason all of the matching to the database is performed assuming this as a possibility on every strand. However when two masses match perfectly to two complementary base compositions at 

After scanning the database to generate a list of all possible fragment matches for each mass at 4 ppm threshold and allowing a precise 1 Dalton error on every mass an automatic filter was applied that assumes that a pair of perfect matches to a complementary pair of base compositions overrides a match requiring a 1 dalton shift in the same direction on both strands as described in the above paragraph . A second filter was applied to completely filter out ambiguous fragments where one mass actually did exhibit a one Dalton shift error. This is easily spotted in an automated fashion because two masses will only match a complementary set of base compositions with high precision if one of them is shifted by exactly 1 Dalton under this scenario. This can present ambiguity however because there is no de novo way to tell which mass has the error. Replicate reactions are relied upon to resolve this type of ambiguity alternatively a profile can be scanned with ambiguity in an either or mode with little or no effect on the actual match result if enough fragments are present in a profile much like using an R to represent A or G or an N to represent any nucleotide .

The last step is to create a composite profile from the combination of pre filtered matches in each reaction scenario. To do this all of the unfiltered masses from each of the replicates in each reaction scenario e.g. one reaction scenario would be HV1 PCR product digested with RsaI were combined into one data set and used again against the entire database to regenerate a single composite profile. This operation provides the benefit of increasing sensitivity in that a fragment lost in one reaction can be picked up in another and can help prevent ambiguous base composition assignments. The final step is to filter any ambiguous assignments from the composite profile before comparing profiles or scanning the database with a profile. Even in the very unlikely case that masses representing both strands of a fragment were Dalton shifted in the same direction the same fragment in a replicate reaction should disagree which is the precautionary purpose of the final filtering step.

Table 7 summarizes the results of the database scans using the six region profiles. It should be noted here that there was considerably more noise in the larger non control region spectra than the spectra for the HV1 and HV2 regions. Although it did not detract from the ability to match the proper donor signature it did produce more than desired ambiguity in data processing. The level of noise in this data set also did not cause a problem in the ability to differentiate samples from each other by at least one SNP with the exception of samples CS0004 CS0025 and CS0032. Interestingly one SNP in R1 differentiates CS0004 and CS0025 which appear to a very common mtDNA type when HV1 and HV2 are matched to the database which was detected only in the CS0025 profile. Therefore CS0004 and CS0025 could not be resolved from each other by direct comparison see next section CS0004 hits equally to CS0004 and CS0025 in the database scan and CS0025 appears to differentiate from CS0004 in a database scan due to the fact that the profile is being compared to the known CS0004 sequence in the latter case rather than the experimentally determined base composition profile that has a missing fragment . Two incorrect base compositions were predicted in CS0018 that were corrected by analysis of a duplicate set of restriction digestions. One incorrect base composition was predicted in each of samples CS0006 CS0011 and CS0026 each of which was likewise corrected by analysis of a duplicate set of restriction digestions. This did not change the top database hit Table 7 nor does it change the ability of CS0001 CS0036 to be differentiated from CS0018 CS0006 CS0011 or CS0026.

Various modifications of the invention in addition to those described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description. Such modifications are also intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. Each reference cited in the present application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

