---

title: Binary continuous phase modulation (CPM) data demodulation receiver
abstract: A communications receiver receives a received continuous phase modulation (CPM) signal having an original modulation index of h and includes a filter, a continuous phase reconstructor using phase unwrapping, and a modulation index scaler for generating a reconstructed CPM signal having a scaled modulation index H from the received CPM signal having a small modulation index h, with the scaled modulation index H preferably being greater than the original modulation index h, so that, the transmitted CPM signal occupies a narrow bandwidth, yet, during reception, the reconstructed CPM signal with the high modulation index H can be reliably data demodulated for improved performance with reduced demodulation complexity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08090055&OS=08090055&RS=08090055
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 08090055
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080806
---
The invention was made with Government support under contract No. FA8802 04 C 0001 by the Department of the Air Force. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to the field of continuous phase modulation communication systems. More particularly the present invention related to a demodulator for demodulating communicated precoded continuous phase modulation signals.

Continuous phase modulation CPM signals are phase modulated signals having a spectral occupancy that can be tailored to fit limited transmission bandwidths through suitable pre modulation filtering. Moreover unlike non constant envelope signals such as amplitude modulated signals or filtered phase modulated signals the CPM signals have a constant envelope and allow saturated power amplifier operation for maximum power efficiency. These desirable signal properties desirable by the rising premium being placed on bandwidth and power efficiency have resulted in the use of CPM signals such as binary Gaussian Minimum Shift Keying GMSK being deployed in operational terrestrial and satellite communication systems.

Inventors Gee L. Lui and Kuang Tsai taught precoding in a low complexity CPM serial demodulator in Viterbi and Serial Demodulators for Precoded Binary GMSK on pp. 676 683 ITC Proceedings Las Vegas Nev. 1999. The low complexity CPM serial demodulator operated in combination with the binary CPM GMSK modulator. The binary CPM GMSK modulator received a serial bit data stream that was precoded into a symbol steam by a precoder. The symbols were then modulated by a binary CPM GMSK modulator having a L 1 BT memory length with a modulation index h of where B is the modulation bandwidth and T is the symbol time. The low complexity serial demodulator was described in terms of reduced complexity. The use of data precoding by the precoder in the transmitter enables data decisions by the serial demodulator to be simply made by alternately sampling the sign using a sampler and a threshold of the inphase and quadrature components at the output of a phase amplitude modulated PAM matched filter h t . The PAM matched filter filtered the fundamental Laurent components embedded in the received CPM signal.

The advantages of the serial demodulator are its simplicity as well as the ease of generating metrics for soft decision decoding. The decoding metrics were obtained by directly quantizing into the required number of bits the respective inphase or quadrature components of the PAM filter output at sampling instances. The disadvantage of the serial demodulator is that its performance may be severely limited by inter symbol interference ISI particularly for small bandwidth time BT products.

To mitigate the problem of ISI an equalizer was used. ISI refers to the spreading of a data pulse over several bit intervals. ISI is an inherent characteristic of a smooth and spectrally compact modulation waveform such as GMSK and a direct consequence of the reciprocal spreading theorem of the Fourier transform which states that a pulse that is long in time is necessarily narrow in frequency and vice versa. For a CPM GMSK signal each data pulse is spread among the set of Q 2Laurent pulses with pulse periods ranging from L 1 T for the dominant Laurent component h t to T for the weakest Laurent component. Upon reaching the detection filter of the serial demodulator these Laurent pulses are further spread by the detection filter h t resulting in a total data pulse spread as large as 2 L 1 bit periods. Because the autocorrelation function of h t vanishes at L 1 T a signal sample taken at bit time nT is corrupted by L preceding data bits as well as L succeeding data bits resulting in ISI where n is the symbol index. The presence of ISI in the signal sample causes the signal to randomly deviate from its expected value and could greatly impair the decision ability to make correct bit decisions even in the absence of receiver noise. The effect of ISI on bit detection is generally data pattern dependent and can be effectively mitigated using a least mean square LMS equalizer which operates to minimize the square of the error of the signal sample from the expected value. A LMS equalizer also known as a transversal equalizer can be implemented using a tap delay line a set of multipliers and a multiple input summer. For BT values of to it was determined that no more than three taps are needed in each case to provide a near optimal performance of the LMS equalizers. For BT values of and greater and over the bit SNR range of 0 dB to 10 dB the performance of the serial demodulator without an equalizer is nearly the same as coherent BPSK performance and thus equalization is deemed unnecessary for these larger BT values.

The CPM GMSK modulator operation is defined by the bandwidth time products BT a modulation index h and the symbol time period T. A Gaussian modulation filter has a memory length L where L 1 BT. The equalizer is used to solve the problem of high ISI for low BTs. However the modulation index h presents further detection problems when the value of h is low. Small modulation index partial response precoded binary CPM signals have very narrow bandwidth occupancy and are attractive modulation indexes for use in the design of high capacity and bandwidth limited communication systems. However conventional detection of these narrow band modulation signals is complex and entails a high complexity data demodulator. Small modulation index partial response CPM signals are very bandwidth efficient but difficult and complex to demodulate using conventional linear receivers. These and other disadvantages are solved or reduced using the invention.

An object of the invention is to improve the demodulation of continuous phase modulation CPM signals.

Another object of the invention is to improve the demodulation of CPM signals having a low modulation index.

Yet another object of the invention is to provide a demodulator for translating CPM signals generated using a low modulation index into an equivalent high modulation index CPM signal.

Still another object of the invention is to provide a demodulator for translating CPM signals generated using a low modulation index into equivalent high modulation index CPM signals for improved data detection.

A further object of the invention is to provide a receiver for reconstructing received CPM signals generated using a low modulation index into equivalent high modulation index CPM signals for improved data detection by using a phase unwrapper for removing phase discontinuities.

Yet a further object of the invention is to provide a receiver for reconstructing received CPM signals generated using a low modulation index into equivalent high modulation index reconstructed CPM signals for improved data detection using a conventional demodulator.

The invention is directed to a simple to implement non linear receiver for demodulating narrow band received CPM signals. A received CPM signal having an original modulation index h is reconstructed into a reconstructed CPM signal having a scaled modulation index H using phase unwrapping. The reconstructed CPM signal can then be fed into a conventional serial demodulator for data detection. The technique is applicable to any binary CPM signal and is preferably applicable to demodulating a binary CPM signal having an arbitrarily small modulation index h. The total demodulation process is a non linear reconstruction process that generates a reconstructed CPM signal characterized by a high modulation index that can then be demodulated in the receiver.

An advantage of the non linear data demodulator is the reduction in complexity of a demodulator for small modulation index CPM signals. An additional advantage is that the data demodulation receiver provides a low complexity method to optimize the use of limited communication bandwidths by changing the CPM modulation index after reception. The data demodulation process enables the generation of a reconstructed CPM signal from the received small modulation index CPM signal that allows for reduced complexity of data demodulation of the reconstructed signal for synchronization for improved data detection. These and other advantages will become more apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment.

An embodiment of the invention is described with reference to the using reference designations as shown in the drawing. A bit source provides a serial bit stream to a modulator including a binary precoder for generating a serial symbol stream fed to a binary continuous phase modulation CPM modulator having a memory length L and a modulation index h. The modulator can be a GMSK modulator using a Gaussian filter not shown. The modulator provides a Z t transmitted CPM signal from the transmitter . The Z t transmitted CPM signal is a CPM signal communicated through a channel such as an average white Gaussian noise AWGN channel .

The Z t transmitted CPM signal includes noise as a Z t received CPM signal received by a demodulation receiver for generating an circumflex over estimated serial bit stream of the original serial bit stream from the bit source . The circumflex over an estimated serial bit stream is then fed to bit sink for data collection. The receiver would include conventional tracking loops not shown for carrier tracking of the Z t received signal. The Z t received CPM signal is received by a f t low pass filter for providing a Z t low pass filtered signal that is fed into a continuous phase reconstructor . The reconstructor includes an argumentor for providing a t discontinuous phase signal and includes a phase unwrapper for providing a t unwrapped continuous phase signal from the t discontinuous phase signal. The t unwrapped continuous phase signal is fed into a 2h scaler for generating a t normalized continuous phase signal t that is in turn fed to a eexponentiator for generating a reconstructed CPM signal. The reconstructed CPM signal is a complex signal having Ib inphase and Qb quadrature components. The filter the reconstructor the scaler and the exponentiator collectively serve to translate the received CPM signal into the reconstructed CPM signal comprising the Ib inphase and Qb quadrature CPM components. The reconstructed CPM signal having the Ib and Qb quadrature CPM components is communicated to a serial demodulator for generating the circumflex over estimated serial bit stream that is in turn communicated to the bit sink .

The serial demodulator includes a h t pulse amplitude modulated PAM filter for generating a PAM filtered signal having I t inphase and Q t quadrature components. The serial demodulator further includes a sampler for sampling the I t inphase and Q t quadrature components respectively and alternately at time instances t 2mT and t 2m 1 T where m is the sampling index and t are the sampling times for generating serial runequalized samples. The serial demodulator further includes a least mean square LMS equalizer and a sign determinator . The runequalized serial samples are fed into the LMS equalizer for generating eequalized samples that are in turn fed into the sign determinator for generating the circumflex over estimated serial bit stream. The bit source transmitter channel and serial demodulator are well known and used in an ordinary manner.

In the transmitter the binary source data bits are first preferably precoded into modulator input symbols by an encoding rule n 0 1 n 1 where and 1 and where n is the symbol index. Signed precoding permits the eventual data demodulation to be carried out without undergoing an otherwise required performance degrading differential decoding. The binary CPM modulator is driven by the input symbol sequence forming the Z t transmit signal defined by a complex envelope equation

The Z t received CPM signal has an envelope that is low pass filtered by the low pass filter LPF for generating a low pass signal Z t to limit channel noise. Next the continuous phase of the Z t low pass filtered signal is extracted by the continuous phase reconstructor providing an unwrapped continuous phase signal t that is then scaled for normalization by a factor of H 2h to form the phase of the reconstructed CPM signal with a scaled modulation index of H . The continuous phase reconstructor includes the argumentor providing a phase extracting arctangent function followed by a phase unwrapping function of the phase unwrapper . The phase unwrapper reconstitutes a continuous phase process of the unwrapped continuous phase signal t from a noncontinuous input phase process of the discontinuous phase signal t from the argumentor . The operation of the phase unwrapper is mathematically defined by t t 2 R t t T N 2 where R x x x x 0.0 0.5 x 1 x x 0.5 1.0 and where N samples per symbol.

The unwrapped continuous phase signal t from the phase unwrapper is scaled by the scaler for providing a normalized continuous phase signal t . A complex exponential function of the exponentiator provides a normalized complex signal envelope from the normalized continuous phase process t for providing the reconstructed CPM signal having the Ib t inphase and Qb t quadrature components. The reconstructed CPM signal is the same as a received CPM signal but effectively generated using the scaled modulation index of H whereas the received CPM signal Z t is generated using an original modulation index h at the modulator in which the original modulation index h may be much less than one. In this manner a received CPM signal that is generated using an original modulation index h which may have a low value can be reconstructed into a reconstructed CPM signal having a much higher scaled modulation index H. As such the LPF filter reconstructor scaler and exponentiator generate the reconstructed CPM signal from an originally transmitted CPM signal but with the reconstructed CPM signal having a scaled modulation index H that is preferably different and most preferably greater than the original modulation index h that is H h where h

The reconstructed CPM signal having a scaled modulation index H is communicated to the serial demodulator and more particularly to the PAM filter which is a matched filter matched to the principal Laurent components associated with the reconstructed CPM signal having the scaled modulation index H . The PAM filtered signal having I t inphase and Q t quadrature PAM components is then sampled by the sampler equalized by the LMS equalizer and data detected according to the algebraic signs of either the inphase or the quadrature matched filter output samples by the sign determinator for generating the circumflex over estimated serial bit stream.

In preferred operation a binary precoded received CPM signal having a small modulation index h is transformed upon reception that is reconstructed into a reconstructed CPM signal having a modulation index H using the continuous phase reconstructor a phase scaler and the complex exponentiator . The resulting CPM signal is a reconstructed CPM signal characterized by having a scaled modulation index H. The reconstructed CPM signal can then be demodulated using a conventional low complexity CPM serial demodulator. The performance of the reduced complexity data receiver is exemplified for a precoded binary Gaussian minimum shift keying GMSK signal with various BT products and with a modulation index of h . The ideal low pass filter can provide a two sided bandwidth of 1 T and a two sided impulse response truncation width of 20 T.

The CPM signal reconstruction is well suited for binary CPM signals with a small modulation index h. Performance simulation data has demonstrated the effectiveness for use in a Gaussian noise channel . The receiver uses non linear modulation index transformation that reconstructs the complex reconstructed CPM signal from a complex CPM received signal. The reconstructed CPM signal is scaled in continuous phase so that the reconstructed CPM signal has an effective scaled modulation index H that is preferably greater than the original modulation index h. The reconstructed CPM signal with a high scaled modulation index H with continuous phase can then be demodulated by using a single matched filter in the serial data demodulator . The binary precoder and the equalizer are optional elements that can be used for improved performance. The reconstruction of the received CPM signal is accomplished using the low pass filter the continuous phase reconstructor and the scaler providing the t normalized continuous phase signal that is transformed into a complex form by the exponentiator for generating Ib and Qb complex quadrature components for data detection. The reconstructor enables the generation of the reconstructed CPM signal having a high modulation index H from the received CPM signal having a small modulation index h. The reconstruction allows for reduced complexity in data demodulation for improved synchronization for data detection.

The reduced complexity data demodulation receiver is well suited for improving the performance of small modulation index CPM communications systems. The demodulation is a non linear reconstruction process that generates a reconstructed CPM signal characterized by a high modulation index. An advantage of the non linear data demodulator is the significant reduction in complexity of a demodulator for small modulation index CPM signals. An additional advantage is that the demodulator provides a low complexity method to optimize the use of a limited communication bandwidth by changing the CPM modulation index upon reception. Those skilled in the art can make enhancements improvements and modifications to the invention and these enhancements improvements and modifications may nonetheless fall within the spirit and scope of the following claims.

