---

title: Route selection by drag and drop
abstract: The various embodiments of the present invention may be directed to a system for facilitating data processing in a visual manner. An application may include, inter alia, a basket component for visually representing the particular data items that a user desires to be processed by an application. The application may allow a user to initially search for data items that may be of interest (e.g., points-of-interest or POIs). A user may select POIs to obtain additional descriptive information regarding each data item. If the selected POI is to be included in processing, a user may drag the visual representation of the POI into the basket component. When the basket component contains all POIs desired for processing, the user may further instruct the application to formulate a result that is a composite of some or all of the POIs in the basket component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08856671&OS=08856671&RS=08856671
owner: Navteq B.V.
number: 08856671
owner_city: Veldhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20080511
---
Various embodiments of the present invention relate to the visual facilitation of data selection and more specifically to a system for formulating a composite result by visually dragging and dropping elements of the composite result into a visual representation of a basket.

Modern society has adopted and is becoming reliant upon devices for wireless communication. For example cellular telephones continue to proliferate in the global marketplace due to technological improvements in both communication quality and device functionality. These wireless communication devices WCDs have become common for both personal and business use allowing users to transmit and receive voice text and graphical data from a multitude of geographic locations. The communication networks utilized by these devices span different frequencies and cover different transmission distances each having specific features desirable for various applications.

The desire for users to employ wireless apparatuses in many different settings continues to keep pace with new communication enhancements incorporated in these devices. Additional functionality such as for example messaging clients email instant messenger etc. business applications document readers scheduling programs interfaces to inventory management systems etc. location systems GPS mapping navigation etc. multimedia and entertainment applications as well as many more. These various applications may retrieve information via wired or wireless communication that in view of a user configuration may be required in order to perform the requested activity. The information needed during application execution may come from for example a remote source accessible via wireless communication.

While the above functionality is desirable the configuration required in order to achieve a desired result may be prohibitive. In at least one scenario a user of limited technical ability may be able generally to operate an apparatus but may not possess the skills required to configure higher level applications. For example the advent of various location related features on modern wireless devices allow users not only to pinpoint their current location but also to find other destinations via visual mapping voice actuated direction finding etc. However the configuration required to use such applications may require the entry of a substantial amount of information. If this configuration requires for example a large amount of menu navigation text entry and parameter configuration a user may deem the application too burdensome technical time consuming etc. This problem may be made worse in situations where the apparatus may only include an extremely limited user interface e.g. in some rudimentary wireless handheld devices . As a result users may not take full advantage of the various features now available in multifunction devices because they do not feel that the burden of comprehending and then executing the required configuration justifies the benefits bestowed by the application.

Various embodiments of the present invention are directed to at least a method system apparatus chipset interface architecture and computer program for facilitating data processing in a visual manner. An application may comprise inter alia a user interface for configuring functionality within the application the user interface including at least a basket component for visually representing the particular data items that a user desires the application to process. The application may initially allow a user to locate data items that may be of interest to the user e.g. points of interest or POIs . The user may then select each POI to obtain additional descriptive information about the POI. If the selected POI is to be included in processing a user may then drag the visual representation of the POI into the basket component. When the basket component contains all POIs desired for processing the user may instruct the application to formulate a result that is a composite of the POI information contained in the basket component.

In accordance with at least one exemplary embodiment of the present invention a user may configure and execute a search or query in the application in order to compile one or more POIs. These POIs may be for example a subset of the total POIs available as defined by user configured parameters. Upon selection for example in response to positioning a computer cursor over a POI the user may be presented with additional descriptive information concerning the POI. The user may repeat this procedure with some or all of the POIs in order to determine the particular data items that should be included for processing in the resulting composite data.

A user may then choose one or more desired POIs for inclusion in processing for example by dragging them into the basket component. After all of the desired data items have been placed in the basket the user may instruct the application to formulate a composite result based on the contents of the basket component that may then be displayed to the user and or stored for later use forwarded to other users e.g. along with the selected POI data etc. An exemplary later use may involve configuring information to be shared with other users. In at least one scenario users may configure and formulate a composite result using a web interface on a laptop desktop computer in order to take advantage of better user interfaces and resources e.g. processing speed power etc. . The selected POI information and or the composite result data may then be conveyed e.g. shared to a portable device for easy transport availability etc. Sharing may further be conducted on a larger scale for example via the use of a remote resource accessible by various wired and or wireless apparatuses. Apparatuses may in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention store the contents of the basket component e.g. as a data collection and or composite results on the remote resource and may further search for request access to or transmission of etc. data that was previously stored on the remote resource.

While the present invention has been described in a variety of exemplary embodiments various changes can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as described in the appended claims.

Wireless communication devices WCD may transmit and receive information over a wide array of communication networks each with different advantages regarding speed range quality error correction security encoding etc. These characteristics may determine the amount of information that can be transferred to a receiving device and the duration of time for this information transfer. includes a diagram of an exemplary WCD and how it may interact with various types of wireless technologies.

In the example pictured in user possesses WCD . This device may be anything from a basic cellular handset to a more complex device such as a wirelessly enabled palmtop or laptop computer. Close proximity communications may include various transponder type interactions wherein normally only the scanning device requires its own power source. WCD scans source via short range communication. A transponder in source may utilize the energy and or clock signal contained within the scanning signal as in the case of RFID communication to respond with data stored in the transponder. These types of technologies usually have an effective transmission range on the order of ten feet and may be able to deliver stored data in amounts from a bit to over a megabit or 125 Kbytes relatively quickly. These features make such technologies well suited for identification purposes such as to receive an account number for a public transportation provider a key code for an automatic electronic door lock an account number for a credit or debit transaction etc.

The transmission range between two devices may be extended if both devices are capable of performing powered communication. Short range active communication includes applications wherein the sending and receiving devices are both active. An exemplary situation would include user coming within effective transmission range of a Bluetooth WLAN UWB WUSB etc. access point. In the case of Bluetooth a network may automatically be established to transmit information to WCD possessed by user . The amount of information to be conveyed is unlimited except that it must all be transferred in the time when user is within effective transmission range of the access point. Due to the higher complexity of these wireless networks additional time is also required to establish the initial connection to WCD which may be increased if many devices are queued for service in the area proximate to the access point. The effective transmission range of these networks depends on the technology and may be from some 30 ft. to over 300 ft. with additional power boosting.

Long range networks are used to provide virtually uninterrupted communication coverage for WCD . Land based radio stations or satellites are used to relay various communication transactions worldwide. While these systems are extremely functional the use of these systems is often charged on a per minute basis to user not including additional charges for data transfer e.g. wireless Internet access . Further the regulations covering these systems may cause additional overhead for both the users and providers making the use of these systems more cumbersome.

As previously described various embodiments of the present invention may be implemented utilizing a multitude of wired and or wireless communication technology. Therefore it is important to understand the communication tools available to user before exploring these exemplary embodiments. For example in the case of a cellular telephone or other handheld wireless devices the integrated data handling capabilities of the device play an important role in facilitating transactions between the transmitting and receiving devices.

Control module may regulate operation of the device. Inputs may be received from various other modules included within WCD . For example interference sensing module may use various techniques known in the art to sense sources of environmental interference within the effective transmission range of the wireless communication device. Control module may interpret these data inputs and in response may issue control commands to the other modules in WCD .

Communications module incorporates all of the communication aspects of WCD . As shown in communications module may include for example long range communications module short range communications module and close proximity communications module . Communications module may utilize one or more of these sub modules to receive a multitude of different types of communication from both local and long distance sources and to transmit data to recipient devices within the transmission range of WCD . Communications module may be triggered by control module or by control resources local to the module responding to sensed messages environmental influences and or other devices in proximity to WCD .

User interface module includes visual audible and tactile elements which allow the user to receive data from and enter data into the device. The data entered by user may be interpreted by control module to affect the behavior of WCD . User inputted data may also be transmitted by communications module to other devices within effective transmission range. Other devices in transmission range may also send information to WCD via communications module and control module may cause this information to be transferred to user interface module for presentment to the user.

Applications module incorporates all other hardware and or software applications on WCD . These applications may include sensors interfaces utilities interpreters data applications etc. and may be invoked by control module to read information provided by the various modules and in turn supply information to requesting modules in WCD .

Memory may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and or flash memory and stores information in the form of data and software components also referred to herein as modules . The data stored by memory may be associated with particular software components. In addition this data may be associated with databases such as a bookmark database or a business database for scheduling email etc.

The software components stored by memory include instructions that can be executed by processor . Various types of software components may be stored in memory . For instance memory may store software components that control the operation of communication sections and . Memory may also store software components including a firewall a service guide manager a bookmark database user interface manager and any communication utilities modules required to support WCD .

Long range communications section performs functions related to the exchange of information over large geographic areas such as cellular networks via an antenna. These communication methods include technologies from the previously described 1 G to 3 G. In addition to basic voice communication e.g. via GSM long range communications section may operate to establish data communication sessions such as General Packet Radio Service GPRS sessions and or Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS sessions. Also long range communications section may operate to transmit and receive messages such as short messaging service SMS messages and or multimedia messaging service MMS messages. Various IP protocols may also be included in the long range communication network category.

As a subset of long range communications section or alternatively operating as an independent module separately connected to processor transmission receiver allows WCD to receive transmission messages via mediums such as Digital Video Broadcast for Handheld Devices DVB H . These transmissions may be encoded so that only certain designated receiving devices may access the transmission content and may contain text audio or video information. In at least one example WCD may receive these transmissions and use information contained within the transmission signal to determine if the device is permitted to view the received content.

Short range communications section is responsible for functions involving the exchange of information across short range wireless networks. As described above and depicted in examples of such short range communications section are not limited to Bluetooth. WLAN UWB and Wireless USB connections. Accordingly short range communications section performs functions related to the establishment of short range connections as well as processing related to the transmission and reception of information via such connections.

Close proximity communications section also depicted in may provide functionality related to the short range scanning of machine readable data. For example processor may control components in close proximity communications section to generate RF signals for activating an RFID transponder and may in turn control the reception of signals from an RFID transponder. Other examples of technologies for scanning machine readable data that may be implemented in close proximity communications section may include RFID functionality corresponding to Near field communication NFC IR communication linear and 2 D e.g. QR bar code readers including processes related to interpreting UPC labels and optical character recognition devices for reading magnetic UV conductive or other types of coded data that may be provided in a tag using suitable ink. In order for close proximity communications section to scan various types of machine readable data the input device may include optical detectors magnetic detectors CCDs or other sensors known in the art for interpreting machine readable information.

As further shown in user interface is also coupled to processor . User interface facilitates the exchange of information with a user. shows that user interface includes a user input and a user output . User input may include one or more components that allow a user to input information. Examples of such components include keypads touch screens and microphones. User output allows a user to receive information from the device. Thus user output portion may include various components such as a display light emitting diodes LED tactile emitters and one or more audio speakers. Exemplary displays include liquid crystal displays LCDs and other video displays.

WCD may also include one or more transponders . This is essentially a passive device that may be programmed by processor with information to be delivered in response to a scan from an outside source. For example at least one RFID scanner or in a more specific scenario at least one RFID scanner that may be configurable to communicate utilizing NFC may be mounted in an entryway may continuously emit radio frequency waves. When a person with a device containing transponder walks through the door the transponder is energized and may respond with information identifying the device the person etc.

Hardware corresponding to communications sections and provide for the transmission and reception of signals. Accordingly these portions may include components e.g. electronics that perform functions such as modulation demodulation amplification and filtering. These portions may be locally controlled or controlled by processor in accordance with software communication components stored in memory .

The elements shown in may be constituted and coupled according to various techniques in order to produce the functionality described in . One such technique may link separate hardware components corresponding to processor communications sections and memory user interface transponder etc. together via one or more wired or wireless bus interfaces. Alternatively any and or all of the individual components may be replaced by an integrated circuit in the form of a programmable logic device gate array ASIC multi chip module etc. programmed to replicate the functions of the stand alone devices. In addition each of these components is coupled to a power source such as a removable and or rechargeable battery not shown .

The user interface may interact with a communication utilities software component also contained in memory which provides for the establishment of service sessions using long range communications section and or short range communications section . The communication utilities component may include various routines that allow the reception of services from remote devices according to mediums such as the Wireless Application Medium WAP Hypertext Markup Language HTML variants like Compact HTML CHTML etc.

An exemplary scenario is shown in that will further be utilized to explain various embodiments of the present invention. Implementation of the present invention is not strictly limited to the various embodiments disclosed herein and may be established using a multitude of configurations. In particular various embodiments of the present invention may be implemented with various wireless enabled apparatuses communicating using different wireless communication mediums. Disclosed devices and or mediums are for explanation purposes only.

Various embodiments of the present invention may include at least a system for formulating composite information based on various data items. The elements of the system such as applications data items also identified herein as points of interest may reside on one or more apparatuses coupled via wired and or wireless communication. An exemplary apparatus arrangement usable in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention is disclosed in . Exemplary wireless apparatus may include any and or all of the modules components functionality etc. described with respect to exemplary WCD . Wireless apparatus may participate in various interactions with remote resource . Remote resource in this example may include one or more networked computing resources e.g. computers file servers routers modems etc. having an Internet webpage interface that is accessible via a wired or wireless link. These access methods may include for example a long range wireless data connection e.g. cellular communication which may be established directly with a service provider in order to access the Internet a short range connection established to an access point using a medium like Bluetooth. WLAN etc. a wired link via Ethernet Firewire etc.

Other apparatuses may also access remote resource via the aforementioned examples of wired and or wireless connection. For example a computing device e.g. a laptop computer is shown accessing remote resource via a web browser. The web browser is configurable to display the Internet webpage interface of remote resource so that a user of apparatus can interact with various resources residing in remote resource . Both wireless apparatus and other apparatus may send information to as well as receive information from remote resource . In this example a website www.ovi.com has been used to represent remote resource . This website created and supported by Nokia Corporation is a central repository via which users can share information pictures multimedia etc. or obtain information e.g. maps music games etc. that may be stored or formulated according to user configuration. While this particular website has been used for the sake of example in explaining the various embodiments of the present invention the invention is not specifically limited to the disclosed implementation.

Initially source collection may be named in accordance with the process that created it. In this example the source collection has been assigned the generic name XYZ. Further the title bar of source collection may also include additional information such as the number of POIs returned from the process that created source collection . In the particular example disclosed herein user may define a geographic area a type of food an estimated meal cost a rating level etc. that results in the POIs in source collection . POI may include for example an ordinal value a symbol identifying the type of POI. The ordinal value for POI may for example indicate the level of relevance the data item has with regard to the query parameters configured by user in order to create source collection . In source collection all POIs have a symbol indicating that they are dining establishments. However the various embodiments of the present invention are not limited only to this type of POI. More specifically examples of other POIs that may be queried according to the present example are shown in table . A user may also create custom POIs by inputting data like name location address type description etc. into a template. In various embodiments of the present invention a simple form of source collection may comprise a user viewable map format. With this configuration POIs may be displayed on the map for a user to select and drag to the basket. Further it may be possible to activate different kinds of POI layers for display which may present different POI categories like restaurants transportation shopping etc.

POI may also include identification and location information comprising data such as the name of the POI the address directions contact information such as telephone numbers email website information etc. It is important to note that not all of identification and location information may be readily available to a user. For example some location related data e.g. longitude latitude coordinates cell IDs etc. may exist within the POI data structure but would not be visible during normal user interaction. Identification and location information may further be accompanied by one or more signals . These signals may indicate for example that additional information is available in relation to the particular POI . In the disclosed example R may indicate that user review information is available for the particular POI . In addition both the source collection and each POI may include one or more controls typically associated with a window based software architecture. For example a close control X for removing a POI or for closing the entire source collection .

Now referring to an example of dragging a data item from source collection is disclosed. Dragged POI may be moved from source collection to route basket using a typical click hold drag and release action as generally known in the art of computer input devices. In at least one embodiment of the present invention simply moving cursor over a POI may cause descriptive information to be displayed to user . For example moving the cursor over e.g. mouse over POI may trigger a pop up box to become visible including a brief summary of available descriptive information pertaining to the data item. In at least one exemplary configuration only part of the descriptive information may be selectable and this selectable part may be available for drag and drop or would be desirable to drag and drop. Further selecting e.g. clicking on POI may display the entire body of information previously summarized with respect to the exemplary mouse over operation.

Initiating route processing may in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention prompt a choice of preferred output processing. discloses an exemplary display of output processing options. For example a user may simply display the resulting composite output e.g. the route by clicking on . However if a user wants to save the formulated route information and or the contents of route basket e.g. as a collection then clicking on may offer options for configuring saving functionality. Alternatively users may want to provide some or all of this information to other users. In situations where for example the other users to receive the information are specific clicking on may provide options for entering address information for transmitting route and or collection information via email SMS etc. Route and or collection information may also be configured for sharing by clicking so that other users e.g. registered with a remote resource may also access the information. An exemplary sharing architecture and configuration are described further below.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention now discloses examples of functional configurations that may be utilized in apparatus remote resource and other apparatus . Apparatus may include elements implemented in software and or hardware form. Map application MA is an example of an user configurable software interface for obtaining location and or map information from or for providing similar information to remote resource e.g. www.ovi.com . For example users may request information e.g. directions estimated time traffic conditions etc. pertaining to a desired travel route by configuring a request using MA . An exemplary request configuration may include a user setting parameters in a software interface in order to obtain a desired output. MA may then access map operating services application programming interface MOS API to compute maps location direction or other related informational tasks. While various embodiments of the present invention are discussed herein in terms of exemplary map and or location applications this particular usage has been selected for the sake of explanation only and is not intended to be limiting the disclosed embodiments to only being applied in this manner.

After a request has been configured by a user MA may utilize resources in apparatus to access internal information and or may request information from an external source in order to formulate a response to the request. The output information formulated in response to user configuration of MA may in some instances be beneficial or desirable to other users of remote resource . In accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention information may be shared using synchronization elements in apparatus .

Synchronization interface may provide access to applications residing on apparatus e.g. MOS API for sending information to or receiving information from the exemplary synchronization architecture disclosed in . As part of this functionality synchronization interface may interact with synchronization elements supporting specific operations like information storage and communication. For example shared data storage and database may incorporate software and or hardware components usable for the storage of information used in a data sharing process in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention. Database DB may contain for example search index data and or actual stored information that is being made available to shared with other users of remote resource . Synchronization communication may further provide access via messaging for the transmission and reception of synchronization requests commands and other information related to the synchronization system such as information regarding data that is being shared.

Remote resource may include exemplary elements configured to support synchronization messaging web browser access over an Internet connection and sharing information amongst the users of remote resource via wired and or wireless communication. Initially connection to remote resource may be controlled via authentication . This module may verify identification and or security information for apparatuses users applications etc. that attempt to connect to or request information from remote resource . Authentication may for example verify the identity of entities connecting to synchronization server via server synchronization or from the other apparatus connecting to web server using for example web browser . Web server aside from granting general access to remote resource may allow web browser to connect to search server . Web server and search server may for example utilize content access to make search inquiries with data manager in synchronization server regarding shared information. For example web browser may directly access shared information via web server while search server may provide the ability to search for shared information in accordance with search parameters set in web browser .

Data manager may also be accessed via server synchronization . This direct access may allow for synchronization of information in DB and DB e.g. via shared data storage interface . Synchronization may ensure that data manager has the most recent information regarding resources being shared by apparatuses enabled to access remote resource e.g. apparatus . Data stored in these apparatuses e.g. apparatus may also be accessed by querying global identifier information maintained in remote resource e.g. in DB and or data manager . For example search server may query data manager e.g. via content access in order to determine what information is available on remote resource as well as on apparatuses enabled to access remote resource e.g. apparatus . When desired information is located remote resource may respond with the desired information global identifier information etc. to the searching entity e.g. other apparatus . The global identifier information may allow the inquiring apparatus to access the desired information at the source request the transmission of the information etc.

After the application is activated activity in apparatus may result in the formulation of a data request at to remote resource . For example a user may configure the application to formulate composite data based on a plurality of POIs and in order to fulfill this request some or all of POI information may be requested from remote resource . At apparatus may send a data request to remote resource . The data request may trigger the accessing of databases in remote resource computation etc. in order to produce the resulting composite information which may be then sent back to apparatus for eventual presentation to the user. The information sent by remote resource may also include global identifier information e.g. Global ID .

A user may then decide to share some or all of the information resulting from the requested execution of the web integrated service application. When being used internally to an apparatus information need only be identified by a local identifier. A local identifier e.g. Local ID is an identifier known only to apparatus and therefore is not recognized by other apparatuses. However as set forth above remote resource may provide global identifier information with the information returned to apparatus . Apparatus may then modify identification information corresponding to the information to be shared based on the global identifier information. Identification information for the shared information may be modified for example by replacing the Local ID with a Global ID appending Global identification information to Local ID cross referencing the local ID to a Global ID in apparatus etc.

Other apparatus e.g. another device including computing capabilities such as a laptop computer coupled to the Internet via wired or wireless communication may desire to access previously created information at . Shared information may be attractive to a user due to for example the desire to obtain previously unknown information speed time and processing savings in avoiding reformulation of the same information descriptive material corresponding to the material etc. In terms of the previous exemplary scenario a user review of a mapped route may reside in remote resource along with related global identifier information. This review may state for example that shared information pertains to a route for a trip that was extremely enjoyable. As a result other users may want to access this information from apparatus .

Access to the previously created information may be requested in the transaction of . For example other apparatus may transmit a wireless message requesting access to apparatus . This request may include for example identification information confirming that other apparatus user application etc. is allowed to access shared information. Apparatus may then respond by granting access to other apparatus sending the shared information e.g. via wireless communication etc. The above transaction may assume that other apparatus knows the identification e.g. the Global ID and location of the desired information.

In accordance with the previously described exemplary sharing architecture discloses a scenario where information may be shared in terms of the example initially set forth in . Apparatus and other apparatus may compose data or configure collection information at and respectively that may later be shared. This data may include for example POIs saved during a routing session e.g. saved in the form of a data collection or the resulting composite data. Further both devices may search for and access previously compiled data at and . While apparatus may automatically obtain and deliver shared information via a synchronization process such as previously described other apparatus may access and request this information via for example a web browser linked to remote resource via an Internet connection.

In at the Vinoteca POI has now been added to the route basket. If this completes the list of POIs for the particular St. John Route collection then the user may press the show route details button. This action may in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention cause the Application to process the data items in the route basket. In at least one embodiment of the present invention routes may be shown on the map by illustrating a path of travel between POIs in the route basket. Further arrows in the route of display may indicate a destination and or direction of the movement of the user towards a POI .

A flow chart in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention is now disclosed with respect to . In step an application may be accessed. The exemplary application used only for the sake of explanation herein may be an application for map and or route creation. For example a route basket may serve as a receptacle into which POIs are placed e.g. via drag and drop interaction in order to formulate a route between all of the dragged POIs. Outputs from the application may include for example the formulation of various maps and or routes consolidating some or all of the dragged POI data. Further the POI information added to the route basket may be saved as a collection of data accessible by the user e.g. for revising or possibly for other users if a determination is made to share the collection.

In step a determination may then be made as to whether to start a new data collection. If a new data collection is desired e.g. in the case of starting a new travel plan then the process may move to step where a new route basket is created. However if the user does not want to create a new collection in step then in step a determination may be made as to whether there are any existing collections. If there are no existing collections then the process may not continue and it may reset by returning to step . However if at least one existing collection exists then in step a collection may be loaded and the process may move to step . If more than one collection exists the process may loop in step until the desired collection is loaded or no collection is loaded which returns the process to step to restart.

Given either a new collection or an existing collection in step POI information may be obtained or loaded. Obtaining POI information may include for example a user inputting a query which generates a source collection in accordance with the parameters configured by the user. In another instance a user s previous source collections may still exist and these may be loaded for example when the existing collection is loaded. In step a user may select a POI. If no POI is selected then a case may exist where additional searching must be done to obtain the desired POI and therefore the process returns to step . If a POI is selected then in step descriptive information for the selected POI may be displayed.

A user must then decide in step whether to drag the selected POI into the collection. If the user does not desire to include the selected POI then the process may return to step for another selection. However if the user desires to include the POI then it may be added. In step an inquiry is then made as to whether all of the desired POIs have been added. If not all the POIs have been added then on chart reference may return to on chart reference to obtain and or display new POI information. However if the route is complete then the user may trigger formulation of the composite result e.g. via clicking on a button to proceed and the results may be displayed stored transmitted shared etc. in step .

It is foreseeable that in some instances users may not be satisfied with the result outputted by the application or that a process parameter may have changed e.g. a mode of transportation a POI a time etc. and therefore that the application should be reconfigured and rerun. In step a determination may be made as to whether reconfiguration is necessary. If a decision to reconfigure is approved then in step the route basket for the active collection may be redisplayed and the process may continue on from this point as previously described. If no change is deemed to be required in step and no further formulation is required from the application then in step the process may end and return to step . Alternatively the process may return to step in order to edit a new collection or load an existing collection.

In at least one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the selection order of dragged POIs may be retained and preserved in route basket so that the data items appear in the order as selected by the user. In conjunction with the above or in accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the present invention when the map application is executing on an apparatus including a touch screen touching a POI may automatically copy it into route basket if for example an add to route basket mode is activated in the apparatus.

Accordingly it will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

