---

title: Remote control of computing device applications using mobile device
abstract: Embodiments described herein are directed to controlling an application on a computing device with a mobile device. The mobile device captures an image of the application (i.e., by taking a photograph of the computing device's screen). A request is made to the computing device for bitmap information and the available options of the application. Once received by the mobile device, the options are associated with the bitmap representation and hard and/or soft keys are assigned on the mobile device. The user can then view the image of the application and select any of the keys, which, in turn, initiates requests for action that are submitted to the computing device. The computing device associates the actions with the corresponding options in the application and processes the actions accordingly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08160564&OS=08160564&RS=08160564
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08160564
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080610
---
This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

One aspect of the invention is directed to capturing on a mobile device an image of an application executing on a computing device and enabling the mobile device to remotely issue commands to interact with the application on the computing device. The mobile device captures the image with a camera. Specification information about the application is requested from the computing device. The computing device provides a bitmap representation of the application along with one or more user manipulative options related to the bitmap representation. In alternative embodiments a JPEG or TIFF may be presented in lieu of the bitmap representation and in conjunction with the user manipulative options. The mobile device associates the user manipulative options with portions of the image corresponding to the various options. Keys can then be assigned to provide functionality to the user for using the options.

The mobile device includes picture processing software configured to request the specification information associated with the application and map the specification information to the captured image. The picture processing software also associates the options associated with the application to a portion of the image and assigns the keys so the user can remotely manipulate the application. Moreover the mobile device also includes command generator software to translate user selections of the keys into actions associated with the application. These actions are transmitted to the computing device for processing.

In another aspect of the invention a user s input on the mobile device is translated to fit the screen of the computing device. To do so a screen size or bitmap representation of the user computing device s screen is used to convert the user s input for processing on the computing device.

The subject matter described herein is presented with specificity to meet statutory requirements. The description herein however is not intended to limit the scope of this patent. Rather it is contemplated that the claimed subject matter might also be embodied in other ways to include different steps or combinations of steps similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Moreover although the term block may be used herein to connote different elements of methods employed the term should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed.

Further various technical terms are used throughout this description. A definition of such terms can be found in by H. Newton 23Edition 2007 . These definitions are intended to provide a clearer understanding of the ideas disclosed herein but are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. The definitions and terms should be interpreted broadly and liberally to the extent allowed the meaning of the words offered in the above cited reference.

As one skilled in the art will appreciate embodiments of the present invention may be embodied as among other things a method system or computer program product that is embodied on one or more tangible computer readable media. Accordingly the embodiments may take the form of a hardware embodiment a software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware. In one embodiment the present invention takes the form of a computer program product that includes computer useable instructions embodied on one or more computer readable media. Computer readable media include both volatile and nonvolatile media as well as removable and nonremovable media.

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise computer storage media. Computer storage media or machine readable media include media implemented in any method or technology for storing information. Examples of stored information include computer useable instructions data structures program modules and other data representations. Computer storage media include but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory used independently from or in conjunction with different storage media such as for example compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile discs DVD holographic media or other optical disc storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices. These memory components can store data momentarily temporarily or permanently.

The invention can generally be described as systems for methods to and computer storage media storing instructions for allowing a mobile device to capture an image on the screen of a computing device interpret the options within the image and create renditions of the options on the mobile device so that a user can interact with the options on the mobile device. For example as illustrated in and discussed in more detail below a user can take a picture of a displayed media player on a computing device using a mobile phone. Various options may be pictured in the image for example play fast forward rewind zoom etc. Once an image is captured the mobile device identifies the options in the image and presents renditions of the options on the mobile device. When a user interacts with the rendition of the options the mobile device can communicate commands to the computing device accordingly. This allows a user to use his or her mobile device as somewhat of a remote option for applications on the computing device.

In one embodiment the mobile device identifies options by examining the captured image and comparing portions thereof with known images of options previously stored on the mobile device. For example a single triangle pointing to the right may indicate play or two triangles to the right may indicate fast forward. Various graphics and or text may also be used to identify options such as an open folder to signify opening a file or text such as File Edit or the like to identify menus. Other logos text or objects are also possible and will be evident to one of skill in the art.

In another embodiment the mobile device does not associate options with the captured image. Rather the mobile device receives inputs from the user and passes the inputs to the computing device. The images are translated either on the mobile device before transmission or on the computing device afterward from the screen of the mobile device t the screen of the computing device. For example a user maneuvering a mouse two inches from the top of a four inch screen on the mobile device may be translated to a mouse movement seven inches from the top of a fourteen inch screen on the computing device. Translation between screens may be effectuated using screen size information or bitmap representations from the computing device.

Having briefly described a general overview of the embodiments described herein an exemplary computing device is described below. Referring initially to in particular an exemplary operating environment for implementing the present invention is shown and designated generally as computing device . Computing device is but one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Neither should computing device be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated. In one embodiment computing device is a conventional computer e.g. a personal computer or laptop .

One embodiment of the invention may be described in the general context of computer code or machine useable instructions including computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer or other machine. Generally program modules including routines programs objects components data structures and the like refer to code that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Embodiments described herein may be practiced in a variety of system configurations including handheld devices consumer electronics general purpose computers more specialty computing devices etc. Embodiments described herein may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network.

With continued reference to computing device includes a bus that directly or indirectly couples the following devices memory one or more processors one or more presentation components input output ports input output components and an illustrative power supply . Bus represents what may be one or more busses such as an address bus data bus or combination thereof . Although the various blocks of are shown with lines for the sake of clarity in reality delineating various components is not so clear and metaphorically the lines would more accurately be gray and fuzzy. For example one may consider a presentation component such as a display device to be an I O component. Also processors have memory. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that such is the nature of the art and as previously mentioned the diagram of is merely illustrative of an exemplary computing device that can be used in connection with one or more embodiments of the present invention. Distinction is not made between such categories as workstation server laptop handheld device etc. as all are contemplated within the scope of and reference to computing device. 

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technologies CDROM DVD or other optical or holographic media magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or similar tangible media that are configurable to store data and or instructions relevant to the embodiments described herein.

Memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory. The memory may be removable nonremovable or a combination thereof. Exemplary hardware devices include solid state memory hard drives cache optical disc drives etc. Computing device includes one or more processors that read data from various entities such as memory or I O components . Presentation component s present data indications to a user or other device. Exemplary presentation components include a display device speaker printing component vibrating component etc.

I O ports allow computing device to be logically coupled to other devices including I O components some of which may be built in. Illustrative components include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner printer wireless device etc.

The components described above in relation to computing device may also be included in a mobile device. A mobile device as described herein refers to any type of mobile phone handheld device personal digital assistant PDA BlackBerry smartphone digital camera or other mobile devices aside from a laptop capable of communicating wirelessly. One skilled in the art will appreciate that mobile devices will also include a processor and computer storage media to perform various functions. Embodiments described herein mention to both a computing device and a mobile device. In embodiments computing devices merely refer to devices that are running applications of which images are captured by the camera in a mobile device.

Once a user selects an option the mobile device communicates the selected option e.g. fast forward to the computing device for processing. The selected option may be sent to the communication device using low powered RF signals e.g. Bluetooth free space optical communication e.g. infrared IR signals Near Field Communications NFC or other methods well known to those ordinarily skilled in the art. Such communication methods may create a personal area network PAN in which the mobile device can communicate with the computing device . For example a user with a Bluetooth enabled phone may communicate with the computing device as long as the user is within 10 15 meters of the computing device .

Various communications protocols may also be used to communicate options to the computing device . For example IR communications may be sent using an IR data association IrDA protocol specification. Examples of IrDA protocol specifications include without limitation Infrared Physical Layer Specification IrPHY Infrared Link Access Protocol IrLAP Infrared Link Management Protocol IrLMP Tiny Transport Protocol Tiny TP Infrared Communications Protocol IrCOMM Infrared Object Exchange IrOBEX Infrared LAN IrLAN or the like. One skilled in the art will appreciate that various other specifications or protocols may be used.

Alternatively the selected option may be communicated to the computing device through a networked environment such as the Internet a land area network LAN wide area network WAN Wireless LAN WLAN RF network wireless network or combination thereof. The RF network may separate spectrums for access by employing code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA or the like. Similarly the network may in fact be an integrated digital enhanced network iDEN . The mobile device and the computing device may be enabled to communicate across such networks. Furthermore one skilled in the art will appreciate that various protocols be used with such networks. For example the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP Internet protocol suite TCP IP or the like. Also various wireless standards may be used as well such as WiFi WiMAX or the like.

The mobile device may capture an image of nearly any type of application on the computing device . Embodiments described herein generally apply in the same manner regardless of the type of application captured. illustrates a mobile device after having captured an image of a GUI display from the computing device . The captured GUI display illustrates a GUI of an operating system OS on the computing device . The OS may have a plethora of options a user could interact with such as initiating an application by selecting an icon pulling up a START menu e.g. in a version of Microsoft Windows developed by the Microsoft Corporation dragging a line of text or an application to a recycle bin etc. Numerous other options are also possible.

The mobile device in is configured to identify the options within the image captured by a camera of the mobile device . In one embodiment the mobile device presents the image of the GUI display identifies options marked in as identified options within the image and configures keys on the mobile device allowing the user to interact with the identified options . For example a key may be set for pressing Play left or right clicking a mouse moving a mouse cursor opening an application other similar actions.

Keys may be either hard keys soft keys or a combination thereof. A hard key is any physical button wheel ball or scrolling device that may be pressed or manipulated by the user. For example an option to fast forward a video may be assigned to the Send button on the mobile device . Or in another example a volume option may be assigned to the volume buttons on the mobile device .

Soft keys as described herein refer to either unmarked buttons or touch screen buttons that change based on whatever application is currently active on the mobile device . In one embodiment the assigned soft key s functionality is illustrated on the screen either by color text or graphic. For example a touch screen mobile phone may present a button that is green or contains an arrow pointing to the right on the touch screen interface in order to designate a play option. Additionally the soft key may be represented on the screen and assigned to a hard key e.g. an actual button or scroll wheel . For example an option to fast forward may be illustrated directly above an unmarked button by the letters FF. Moreover soft keys may also represent various input devices that can be used in the GUI on a touch screen display for example a mouse keyboard representation microphone display or other device. One skilled in the art will appreciate that other soft keys may also be incorporated into various embodiments described herein.

The software illustrated in and referenced herein may be implemented programmatically using any number of source code programming languages e.g. C C C Java etc. assembly language shader language application programming interfaces APIs or the like. Shader languages may be processed in some embodiments in parallel threads by a graphical programming unit GPU .

The mobile device communicates with the computing device via transceivers and . The transceivers and may communicate using any of the previously described networks e.g. Internet LAN WAN WLAN RF . Or in some embodiments transceivers and communicate using low powered RF signals e.g. via Bluetooth IR signals NFC or the like.

For Bluetooth communication the transceivers and may transmit data via low power radio waves with specific frequencies e.g. between 2.40 GHz and 2.480 GHz . Operationally the transceivers and when operating as Bluetooth transceivers communicate information using a Bluetooth protocol. Bluetooth protocols may include for example but without limitation Bluetooth version 1.0 1.1 or 2.0. As one skilled in the art will understand a Bluetooth enabled device creates wireless personal area networks PANs or piconets. Once another Bluetooth enabled device enters the PAN the two can communicate. For example the mobile device may be able to communicate with the computing device when the mobile device enters the PAN of the computing device .

Camera captures still images or videos through lens . In operation a user points the camera toward the display of the computing device and snaps a photograph or records a video of the display. In alternative embodiments images or videos may be downloaded from a network e.g. the Internet and stored on the mobile device . Digital cameras are generally well known and need not be discussed at length herein. For the sake of clarity embodiments for capturing and processing images are only described even though videos may easily be captured by the camera and processed by software described below.

Picture processing software receives the image captured by the camera and logically maps the image to the screen of the mobile device . Once captured and processed the picture processing software in one embodiment initiates a request for the screen specifications SSReq which is transmitted to the computing device via transceivers and . The computing device upon receipt of the SSReq sends the request to the command execution component which uses an API in one embodiment to interpret the request into a form that can be processed by computing device . The computing device retrieves the requested specification information and returns the requested specification information to the mobile device .

The SSReq may request a slew of information from the computing device and the computing device may respond with a response SSResp containing the requested information. Examples of the information that may be requested by the SSReq and included in an SSResp include without limitation information associated with bitmap representations of applications on the computing device frame sizes of the computing device or an application on the computing device ASCII values for keys on the computing device options for applications on the computing device media capabilities of applications on the computing device a user agent profile UAProf headers of an X WAP PROFILE communication X.19 certificates or the like. Media capabilities as referred to herein the multimedia supported by an application on the computing device. For example the SSResp may specify that the application supports particular types of multimedia e.g. audio video image multimedia application e.g. Windows Media Player iTunes etc. file formats e.g. MP3 MP4 JPEG TIFF PICT WMP etc. or other information identifying the capabilities of the computing device .

Instead of using options returned by the computing device the mobile device in one embodiment maps the application on the computing device to the image captured by the mobile device using the frame size or the bitmap representation returned in the SSResp. In this embodiment the mobile device receives an SSResp with either the frame size or the bitmap representation of the computing device . The mobile device then associates the received frame size or bitmap representation with an image of the screen of computing device . This association results in an translational representation of the screen displayed on the computing device with the captured image of that screen. An user can interact with the image on the mobile device using various keys and the user interactions can then be sent to the computing device and the user s input on the mobile device can be translated to the equivalent position of such an input on the computing device . This translation may be performed by the mobile device before indications of the user s input are sent or on the computing device along with representations of the user s input.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that a UAProf may refer to an extensible markup language XML document that contains information about the features and capabilities of the computing device . The XML document of the UAProf may be found in an X WAP PROFILE header a profile header or an HTTP header. An exemplary X WAP PROFILE header for the Nokia 6230i mobile device may look like http nds1.nds.nokia.com uaprof N6230ir200.xml. An exemplary X WAP PROFILE header for the Nokia 6230 mobile device may look like http nds1.nds.nokia.com uaprof N6230r200.xml. Other examples are also possible.

In one embodiment specification information is returned in an SSResp and designates the options of a particular application in addition to the screen or bitmap representation associated with each option. In one embodiment the bitmap or screen size for each option is retrieved from a video card onboard the computing device . Furthermore the response SSResp from the computing device also contains instructions for the performance of each option. For example the SSResp would contain the ASCII value assigned to a particular option upon its activation. Or the SSResp would include the initiation of software e.g. which subroutine to call and parameters to pass within an application on the computing device for the selection of a Play button. In another example the SSResp could also identify other web services e.g. an online map service or stock ticker or other applications operating on remote computing devices as well as the software calls for accessing such web services or applications.

It should be noted however that options may not be communicated by the computing device or used by the mobile device in some embodiments. In these embodiments as previously discussed only screen size or bitmap parameters may be communicated to and may be used by the mobile device to map a captured image on the mobile device to the screen of the computing device . When a user interacts with the captured image on the mobile device e.g. using various keys the user inputs may be passed to the computing device for execution. Before or after transmission user inputs may be translated based on the screen size or bitmap representation to the appropriate screen size of the computing device . For example a user s mouse click on a four inch screen of the mobile device can be translated to a corresponding spatial location on a fifteen inch screen of the computing device . The computing device may then apply the translated user input to an application accordingly. Thus in this embodiment the computing device maintains options for executing software and simply executes translated user inputs from the mobile device .

The command generator software receives the SSResp stores the contents of the SSResp and parses options commands bitmaps screen sizes or other information in the SSResp. An API to translate the commands into a format that can be understood by the command generator software . Further the command generator software in one embodiment assigns keys hard soft or both on the mobile device to the identified options. The keys may be presented to the user e.g. soft keys or key functionality may be switched e.g. changing a track ball to move a mouse cursor .

In alternative embodiments the command generator software does not assign keys to options rather the command generator software translates user inputs into the inputs spatial equivalents on the screen of the computing device . For example the command generator software may translate the spatial position where a user initiates a mouse left click on a four inch screen of the mobile device into the equivalent spatial position on a twenty inch screen of the computing device . In yet another embodiment such a translation is performed on the computing device not by the command generator software .

In one embodiment the command generator software creates a bitmap of the image on the mobile device . This created bitmap identifies among other things the location of each option in the captured image. Then the options specified in the SSResp can be translated if needed by the API of the mobile device and assigned to various portions within the created bitmap in which the SSResp identifies options.

The SSResp is created by the picture processing software on the computing device . The screen interpretation software receives the SSReq and identifies the application running or in focus on the computing device . To identify the running application the SSReq may include requests for the time the image was captured and the screen interpretation software may compare a log file to identify the application. Also the SSReq may additionally request the frame size of the computing device software executing on the computing device software bitmap representations character set support information e.g. ASCII values input output device commands etc. media capabilities e.g. types of supported multimedia multimedia software multimedia device or file formats supported communication protocols e.g. SOAP HTTPS FTP ActiveSync etc. UAProf X WAP PROFILE header information X.19 certificate information or the like. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the above list is not exhaustive as additional information may also be requested in an SSReq and returned in and SSResp.

After the keys have been assigned the user in one embodiment can use the mobile device as a remote control for interacting with the application pictured in the image. Commands initiated by the user are transmitted to the mobile device and for processing by the command execution component . The command execution component may include software and or hardware to effectuate commands by the user. For example the command execution component may trigger though a driver speakers on the computing device . Taking another example the command execution component may initiate a software application that records audio and stores an audio file sent from the mobile device . Various other options are also possible.

Some applications on the computing device may require users to authenticate themselves before enabling access. The user authentication component handles authentication and regulates access to the private applications. The user authentication component may employ various cryptographic methods such as a public key infracstruction PKI public private key pairs digital rights management DRM X.509 certificates tokens cookies or other well known techniques. In one embodiment the user authentication component verifies a username and or password. In another embodiment the user authentication component interacts with the telecommunications provider to ascertain the location of the user before granting access which may be particularly helpful for applications requiring a user to be within a particular building or room. Other authentication requirements are also possible and will be well known to those of skill in the art.

As illustrated in the mobile device captures an image of the screen of the computing device as indicated at step A. A copy of the image is forwarded to the picture processing software which stores the image and submits an SSReq to the transceiver step B which transmits the SSReq to the transceiver of the computing device step C . Once received the SSReq is passed to the screen interpretation software which identifies the options and controls of the application in the image indicated at step E. The options may include for example ASCII representations input output device commands e.g. a mouse left or right click executable software or the like all of which may be incorporated into an SSResp.

The SSResp is returned sent to transceiver step F which transmits the SSResp to transceiver step G in . The mobile device passes the SSResp to the command generator software indicated at H which parses the SSResp i.e. applies an API to uncover the returned bitmap options and controls i.e. their primitive parameters . Keys on the mobile device are assigned based on the various actions the user can take as indicated at I. For example a hard key with an upward arrow that is typically reserved for increasing volume on the mobile device may be reassigned to function as a fast forward feature for a media player in the image. Other key configurations are also possible.

The user can interact with the image through using the assigned keys. User actions hard or soft key press are passed to the picture processing software as indicated at step J. In one embodiment the picture processing software abstracts the user s actions into their primitive parameters indicated at K. For example a user pressing a soft key for a particular letter may be translated into a specific ASCII value or a mouse left click on the mobile device may be translated for the screen of the computing device . In one embodiment the command generator software creates a an action request indicated at L using an API to translate the primitives into actions understandable by the computing device . In another embodiment the primitives are sent to and translated by an API on the computing device . Or in another embodiment user inputs are translated either by the mobile device or the computing device for equivalent representation between differently sized screens of the mobile and computing devices.

The actions whether translated or not are transmitted to the transceiver as indicated at M and passed to the screen interpretation software as indicated at N. The screen interpretation software interprets the actions and associates them with commands for the application as indicated at O. Then the associated commands are executed by the computing device as indicated at P.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. For example sampling rates and sampling periods other than those described herein may also be captured by the breadth of the claims.

