---

title: Aquaculture raceway with waste removal section
abstract: Waste removal from raceways for raising aquatic animals is improved by providing a waste removal section at the downstream end of the raceways whereby the waste removal section is separated from the rest of the raceway by a vertical or near vertical screen. The mesh size of the screen is sufficient for the waste to pass through but not allow the aquatic animals to pass through. The natural flow of water through the raceway carries the waste material downstream within the raceway. A perforated pipe in the bottom of the waste removal section provides the outlet for the waste removal. A waste control valve connected to the perforated pipe controls the flow of the waste out of the waste removal section. Optional freeze protection for the waste control valve is provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07690330&OS=07690330&RS=07690330
owner: 
number: 07690330
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080124
---
This patent application claims priority to provisional patent application 60 897 078 filed on Jan. 24 2007 which is incorporated by reference herein.

This invention has been made with U.S. Government support under federal grant number USDA 2002 38500 12056. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Raceways are common configurations used in conventional aquaculture industries. While providing a continuously flowing stream of naturally oxygenated water for the aquatic animals certain raceways configurations are not without problems. For example in concrete raceways having rectangular cross sections the solid waste produced by the animals is labor intensive to remove. The concrete walls are also abrasive to the extremities of fish which are often grown in the raceways. Flexible liners used to provide a buffer against the concrete walls often meet with their own design difficulties such as degradation due to exposure to atmospheric elements such as sunlight. Also the moving water stream in the raceway can lift the liner and effectively reduce the volume available within the raceway.

Aquaculture systems using raceways having a U shaped or semi circular cross section benefit from reduced labor in waste removal from the raceway since the shape facilitates both natural and manual sweeping of the waste from the walls of the raceway towards a center drain pipe running longitudinally along the bottom of the raceway.

The invention described herein facilitates waste removal from U shaped or semi circular cross section raceways by providing a waste removal section at the downstream end of the raceways whereby the waste removal section is separated from the rest of the raceway by a vertical or near vertical screen. The mesh size of the screen is sufficient for the waste to pass through but not allow the aquatic animals to pass through. The natural flow of water through the raceway carries the waste material downstream within the raceway. The screen segregates a waste removal section from the rest of the raceway as mentioned above. A perforated pipe positioned in the bottom of the waste removal section running along the same longitudinal axis of the raceway provides the outlet for the waste removal. A waste control valve connected to the perforated pipe controls the flow of the waste out of the waste removal section due to hydrostatic pressure of the water level in the raceway. In one embodiment the valve remains closed until the waste is desired to be removed. The segregation of the waste removal section and the aquatic animals helps to minimize disease in the animals. Also since the labor required to clean the waste from the raceways is reduced in the semi circular or U shaped cross section raceways personnel are more likely to remove the waste from the raceways thereby further increasing the health potential of the animals. The semi circular or U shaped cross sectional shape also facilitates the accumulation of waste in close proximity to the pipe at the bottom of the raceway for enhanced efficiency in removing waste from the raceway through gravity induced hydrostatic pressure when the valve connected to pipe is opened. In such a cross section raceway the waste products tend to naturally slide from the walls of the raceway towards the low point in the raceway where the perforated pipe is positioned parallel to the longitudinal axis of the raceway.

Another advantage of the current invention over other raceway configurations is the ease of installation and flexibility in length. One embodiment of the current invention uses a plastic half pipe to form the semi circular shaped cross section. The plastic half pipe is relatively light weight compared to concrete structure raceways and is much less labor intensive to install and maintain. In one embodiment the half pipe is one half of a commercially available large plastic drain pipe that has been cut along is longitudinal axis to form two half pipes which greatly improves manufacturability and economics of the product compared to conventional raceway construction. One non limiting illustrative example of such a drainage pipe is Advanced Drainage Systems Inc. N12 smooth interior pipe. The half pipe is easily cut to the desired length needed for a particular installation. The half pipe may be constructed using double wall material whereby the inner surface is smooth and the outer surface is corrugated. This design has the advantages of increased leak protection due to the double wall increased strength due to the corrugations and enhanced thermal insulation provided by an air filled gap between the inner and outer walls. In at least one embodiment the raceway is a single piece construction of a plastic half pipe with semi circular end plates plastic welded in place on each end of the half pipe. Thermal insulation material such as but not limited to a foam based insulation may be positioned between the inner and outer walls to protect the water in the raceway from the ambient temperature.

In another embodiment of the invention the downstream end plate weir plate is designed to include a weir to provide overflow from the raceway often into another raceway at a lower level. The weir not only controls the water flow but also helps to re oxygenate the water as it exits one raceway and enters the next.

An optional feature of one embodiment of the invention is a pipe to provide a steady flow of raceway water over the waste control valve to provide antifreeze protection in cold weather. This device drains a small volume flow of water from the raceway downstream end plate through a pipe which directs the water onto the external surface of the waste control valve. The pipe may be thermally insulated to help prevent freezing of the water within the pipe.

Another optional feature of one embodiment is to position a valve in series with the perforated pipe such that the valve is located inside the raceway submerged beneath the water surface. An elongated handle extends from the valve to above the water surface whereby an operator may open or close the valve to clean the waste from the waste removal section without having to reach into the water within the raceway. Such a positioned valve provides freeze protection for the valve in cold weather.

One embodiment of the aquaculture raceway having a U shaped or semi circular cross section with a waste removal section is illustrated in . The aquaculture raceway is formed with an outer wall having longitudinally spaced corrugations and a smooth inner wall . Typically there is a gap or space between the inner wall and outer wall whereby the space is filled with air or other material such as foam to provide thermal insulation between the inner wall and outer wall . A screen is positioned upstream of the weir plate to provide a waste removal section whereby the waste produced by the aquatic animals and uneaten food will accumulate within the waste removal section due to the natural flow of water within the aquaculture raceway . Depending on the aquatic animals being raised in the raceway the screen mesh is of the proper size to permit the waste to pass through but not the aquatic animals . Typical mesh size openings of the screen are but not limited to 0.125 0.25 0.50 0.75 and 1 .

Entering water flows into the aquaculture raceway and exiting water flows out of the raceway at opposite ends of the raceway . The exiting water flows over a weir upon exiting which helps to guide the water into a downstream raceway as is shown in . As shown in a plurality of raceways may be configured with the water flowing from one to the next each successive raceway at a slightly lower elevation than the previous raceway. As the exiting water flows past the weir and becomes the entering water to a downstream raceway the water is naturally oxygenated providing a suitable habitat for the aquatic animals within the raceways . Opposite of the weir plate of the raceway is an end plate to compete the raceway wall structure.

The typical water level within a raceway is shown in . Along the bottom of the raceway within the waste removal section is positioned a pipe with a plurality of perforations . The perforated pipe is positioned so that the longitudinal axis of the pipe is parallel to the longitudinal axis of the raceway to facilitate waste collection near the pipe . The perforated pipe is connected to a solid walled pipe which is further connected to a valve . Opening of the valve hydrostatically forces the waste accumulated in the bottom of the raceway in the waste removal section to flow into the perforated pipe through the solid walled pipe and out of the system through the valve . In at least one embodiment the valve is positioned inside the raceway and submerged below the water level to protect the water in valve from freezing. In one embodiment of the invention the inner wall of the waste removal section may be manually swept towards the bottom to further assist in effective waste removal. As an optional feature to help avoid freezing of the water in the valve during cold weather a trickle pipe may be installed to provide a small flow rate of water to flow over the valve. The trickle pipe is installed through the weir plate a few inches below the water surface . The trickle pipe may be thermally insulated to help prevent the water flow from freezing.

Another optional feature is to position a valve in series with the perforated pipe such that the valve is located inside the raceway submerged beneath the water surface . An elongated handle extends from the valve to above the water surface whereby an operator may open or close the valve to clean the waste from the waste removal section without having to reach into the water within the raceway. Such a positioned valve provides freeze protection for the valve in cold weather.

The various embodiments described herein are merely descriptive of the present invention and are in no way intended to limit the scope of the invention. Modifications of the present invention will become obvious to those having skill in the art in light of the detailed description herein and such modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

