---

title: Passive personalization of buddy lists
abstract: Personalizing communications for a first communication platform includes accessing status information for communication sessions by a communication identity that leverage a first communication platform other than an instant messaging platform. A participant list associated with the communication identity and the first communication platform is passively configured to persistently reflect a list of participant identities from communication sessions in which the communication identity recently participated using the communication platform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09083661&OS=09083661&RS=09083661
owner: FACEBOOK, INC.
number: 09083661
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081217
---
This application claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 184 002 filed Jun. 28 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 512 652 and entitled Passive Personalization of Buddy Lists which claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 134 437 filed Apr. 30 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 765 484 and entitled Passive Personalization of Buddy Lists which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 325 084 filed Sep. 28 2001 and entitled Passive Personalization of Buddy List all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The following description relates generally to passively personalizing a user interface such as an instant messaging user interface.

Online service providers offer new services and upgrade existing services to enhance their subscribers online experience. Subscribers have on demand access to news weather financial sports and entertainment services and have the ability to transmit electronic messages and to participate in online discussion groups. For example subscribers of online service providers such as America Online or CompuServe may view and retrieve proprietary or third party content on a wide variety of topics from servers located throughout the world.

One such service is instant messaging. Members of an instant messaging service can communicate virtually in real time with other instant messaging members. Members may manually create a list of screen names for other members and may establish instant messaging sessions with those other members using a list of screen names which also may be referred to as a buddy list.

In one general aspect personalizing communications for a first communication platform such as instant messaging includes accessing status information for communication sessions by a communication identity that leverage a first communication platform other than an instant messaging platform. A participant list associated with the communication identity and the first communication platform is passively configured to persistently reflect a list of participant identities from communication sessions in which the communication identity recently participated using the communication platform.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the participant list may be configured without action from the communication identity. The list of participant identities from communication in which the communication identity recently participated may be maintained persistently beyond logout of the communication identity. The participant identities may be maintained on the list after a communication session between the participant identity and the communication identity is terminated.

The first communication platform may include electronic mail platform an electronic chat platform a voice over IP telephony platform and or a telephony platform. An electronic mail participant list an electronic chat participant list a voice over IP participant list and or a telephony participant list may be passively configured. The participant list associated with the communication identity and the communication platform may be passively configured. A buddy group may be passively configured.

The participant list may include contact information for at least one of the participant identities that may be used to enable a communication session with at least one participant identity using the first communication platform and or a second communication platform. The second communication platform may include an instant message platform. In one implementation the first communication platform may include on of an electronic mail platform an electronic chat platform a voice over IP telephony platform and a telephony platform and the second communication platform may include a different one of the electronic mail platform the electronic chat platform the voice over IP telephony platform and the telephony platform.

In one implementation the participant identities may be maintained on the list independent of a device or devices used for the communication sessions during which the list was created such that the participant list is accessible from one or more different devices. The participant list may be stored on a remote device accessible to one or more different devices.

In one implementation a participant identity may be added to the participant list only when a communication session with the participant identity is closed. Additionally or alternatively a participant identity may be added to the participant list only when a communication session with the participant identity is closed and the participant identity is not already included in the participant list. The participant identity may be listed as the most recently closed on the list.

In another implementation participant identity may be added to the participant list when a communication session with the participant identity is established. Additionally or alternatively a participant identity may be added to the participant list when a communication session with the participant identity is established and the participant identity is not already included in the participant list.

The participant list of communication sessions in which the communication identity recently participated may be limited to participant identities not otherwise included on any other list for the communication identity. The participant list may be configured to exclude participant identities from which a communication is received but not accepted. The participant list may include participant identities that are included on at least one other list for the communication identity.

The size of the participant list may be limited. A size of the participant list may be established based on a selection by the communication identity and may be initially established based on a default value. The participant list may be sequenced using a least recently used methodology. Additionally or alternatively the participant list may be sequenced using a first in first out methodology.

Participant identities may be arranged on the participant list such that a most recent participant identity is listed first. Participant identities may be arranged on the participant list such that a least recently used screen name is omitted whether or not the least recently used screen name was first in on the list of participant identities.

The passively configured participant list may be displayed. An online status may be displayed for each participant identity in the participant list.

A log associated with the communication identity may be updated. The log may include a chronological record of communication activity. In one implementation the participant list may be based on the updated log. Updating the log may include deriving and recording a screen name of a participant identity. Updating the log also may include recording a time when a communication session is established.

These general and specific aspects may be implemented using a system a method or a computer program or any combination of systems methods and computer programs.

For illustrative purposes show an example of a communications system for implementing techniques for transferring electronic data. For brevity several elements in the figures described below are represented as monolithic entities. However as would be understood by one skilled in the art these elements each may include numerous interconnected computers and components designed to perform a set of specified operations and or may be dedicated to a particular geographical region.

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging data between a client system and a host system through a communications link . The client system typically includes one or more client devices and or client controllers and the host system typically includes one or more host devices and or host controllers . For example the client system or the host system may include one or more general purpose computers e.g. personal computers one or more special purpose computers e.g. devices specifically programmed to communicate with each other and or the client system or the host system or a combination of one or more general purpose computers and one or more special purpose computers. The client system and the host system may be arranged to operate within or in concert with one or more other systems such as for example one or more LANs Local Area Networks and or one or more WANs Wide Area Networks .

The client device or the host device is generally capable of executing instructions under the command of a client controller or a host controller . The client device or the host device is connected to the client controller or the host controller by a wired or wireless data pathway or capable of delivering data.

The client device the client controller the host device and the host controller each typically include one or more hardware components and or software components. An example of a client device or a host device is a general purpose computer e.g. a personal computer capable of responding to and executing instructions in a defined manner. Other examples include a special purpose computer a workstation a server a device a component other physical or virtual equipment or some combination thereof capable of responding to and executing instructions. The client device and the host device may include devices that are capable of peer to peer communications.

An example of a client controller or a host controller is a software application loaded on the client device or the host device for commanding and directing communications enabled by the client device or the host device . Other examples include a program a piece of code an instruction a device a computer a computer system or a combination thereof for independently or collectively instructing the client device or the host device to interact and operate as described. The client controller and the host controller may be embodied permanently or temporarily in any type of machine component physical or virtual equipment storage medium or propagated signal capable of providing instructions to the client device or the host device .

The communications link typically includes a delivery network making a direct or indirect communication between the client system and the host system irrespective of physical separation. Examples of a delivery network include the Internet the World Wide Web WANs LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. PSTN ISDN and xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery mechanism for carrying data. The communications link may include communication pathways and that enable communications through the one or more delivery networks described above. Each of the communication pathways and may include for example a wired wireless cable or satellite communication pathway.

Examples of each element within the communications system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the host system and communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to the host system and the communications link of . Likewise the client system of typically has attributes comparable to and illustrates one possible implementation of the client system of .

The client device typically includes a general purpose computer having an internal or external storage for storing data and programs such as an operating system e.g. DOS Windows Windows 95 Windows 98 Windows 2000 Windows Me Windows XP Windows NT OS 2 or Linux and one or more application programs. Examples of application programs include authoring applications e.g. word processing programs database programs spreadsheet programs or graphics programs capable of generating documents or other electronic content client applications e.g. AOL client CompuServe client AIM client AOL TV client or ISP client capable of communicating with other computer users accessing various computer resources and viewing creating or otherwise manipulating electronic content and browser applications e.g. Netscape s Navigator or Microsoft s Internet Explorer capable of rendering standard Internet content.

The general purpose computer also includes a central processing unit CPU for executing instructions in response to commands from the client controller . In one implementation the client controller includes one or more of the application programs installed on the internal or external storage of the general purpose computer . In another implementation the client controller includes application programs externally stored in and performed by one or more device s external to the general purpose computer .

The general purpose computer typically will include a communication device for sending and receiving data. One example of the communication device is a modem. Other examples include a transceiver a set top box a communication card a satellite dish an antenna or another network adapter capable of transmitting and receiving data over the communications link through a wired or wireless data pathway . The general purpose computer also may include a TV tuner for receiving television programming in the form of broadcast satellite and or cable TV signals. As a result the client device can selectively and or simultaneously display network content received by communications device and television programming content received by the TV tuner .

The general purpose computer typically will include an input output interface for wired or wireless connection to various peripheral devices . Examples of peripheral devices include but are not limited to a mouse a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA an MP3 player not shown a keyboard a display monitor with or without a touch screen input a TV remote control for receiving information from and rendering information to subscribers and an audiovisual input device .

Although illustrates devices such as a mobile telephone a PDA an MP3 player not shown and a TV remote control as being peripheral with respect to the general purpose computer in another implementation such devices may themselves include the functionality of the general purpose computer and operate as the client device . For example the mobile phone or the PDA may include computing and networking capabilities and function as a client device by accessing the delivery network and communicating with the host system . Furthermore the client system may include one some or all of the components and devices described above.

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways and that enable communications through the one or more delivery networks .

Examples of each element within the communications system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of . Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and illustrates one possible implementation of the host systems and shown in .

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on the host device . In other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host device includes a login server for enabling access by subscribers and for routing communications between the client system and other elements of the host device . The host device also includes various host complexes such as the depicted OSP Online Service Provider host complex and IM Instant Messaging host complex . To enable access to these host complexes by subscribers the client system includes communication software for example an OSP client application and an IM client application. The OSP and IM communication software applications are designed to facilitate the subscriber s interactions with the respective services and in particular may provide access to all the services available within the respective host complexes.

Typically the OSP host complex supports different services such as e mail discussion groups chat news services and Internet access. The OSP host complex is generally designed with an architecture that enables the machines within the OSP host complex to communicate with each other and employs certain protocols i.e. standards formats conventions rules and structures to transfer data. The OSP host complex ordinarily employs one or more OSP protocols and custom dialing engines to enable access by selected client applications. The OSP host complex may define one or more specific protocols for each service based on a common underlying proprietary protocol.

The IM host complex is generally independent of the OSP host complex and supports instant messaging services irrespective of a subscriber s network or Internet access. Thus the IM host complex allows subscribers to send and receive instant messages whether or not they have access to any particular ISP. The IM host complex may support associated services such as administrative matters advertising directory services chat and interest groups related to instant messaging. The IM host complex has an architecture that enables all of the machines within the IM host complex to communicate with each other. To transfer data the IM host complex employs one or more standard or exclusive IM protocols.

The host device may include one or more gateways that connect and therefore link complexes such as the OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway . The OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway may directly or indirectly link the OSP host complex with the IM host complex through a wired or wireless pathway. Ordinarily when used to facilitate a link between complexes the OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway are privy to information regarding the protocol type anticipated by a destination complex which enables any necessary protocol conversion to be performed incident to the transfer of data from one complex to another. For instance the OSP host complex and IM host complex generally use different protocols such that transferring data between the complexes requires protocol conversion by or at the request of the OSP host complex gateway and or the IM host complex gateway .

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways and that enable communications through the one or more delivery networks . As shown the client system may access the Internet through the host system .

Examples of each element within the communications system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of . Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and illustrates one possible implementation of the host systems and shown in . describes an aspect of the host system focusing primarily on one particular implementation of OSP host complex .

The client system includes a client device and a client controller . The client controller is generally capable of establishing a connection to the host system including the OSP host complex the IM host complex and or the Internet . In one implementation the client controller includes an OSP application for communicating with servers in the OSP host complex using exclusive OSP protocols. The client controller also may include applications such as an IM client application and or an Internet browser application for communicating with the IM host complex and the Internet .

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on one or more elements of the host device . In other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host system includes a login server capable of enabling communications with and authorizing access by client systems to various elements of the host system including an OSP host complex and an IM host complex . The login server may implement one or more authorization procedures to enable simultaneous access to the OSP host complex and the IM host complex . The OSP host complex and the IM host complex are connected through one or more OSP host complex gateways and one or more IM host complex gateways . Each OSP host complex gateway and IM host complex gateway may perform any protocol conversions necessary to enable communications between the OSP host complex the IM host complex and the Internet .

The OSP host complex supports a set of services from one or more servers located internal to and external from the OSP host complex . Servers external to the OSP host complex generally may be viewed as existing on the Internet . Servers internal to the OSP complex may be arranged in one or more configurations. For example servers may be arranged in centralized or localized clusters in order to distribute servers and subscribers within the OSP host complex .

In one implementation of the OSP host complex includes a routing processor . In general the routing processor will examine an address field of a data request use a mapping table to determine the appropriate destination for the data request and direct the data request to the appropriate destination. In a packet based implementation the client system may generate information requests convert the requests into data packets sequence the data packets perform error checking and other packet switching techniques and transmit the data packets to the routing processor . Upon receiving data packets from the client system the routing processor may directly or indirectly route the data packets to a specified destination within or outside of the OSP host complex . For example in the event that a data request from the client system can be satisfied locally the routing processor may direct the data request to a local server . In the event that the data request cannot be satisfied locally the routing processor may direct the data request externally to the Internet or the IM host complex through the gateway .

The OSP host complex also includes a proxy server for directing data requests and or otherwise facilitating communication between the client system and the Internet . The proxy server may include an IP Internet Protocol tunnel for converting data from OSP protocol into standard Internet protocol and transmitting the data to the Internet . The IP tunnel also converts data received from the Internet in the standard Internet protocol back into the OSP protocol and sends the converted data to the routing processor for delivery back to the client system .

The proxy server also may allow the client system to use standard Internet protocols and formatting to access the OSP host complex and the Internet . For example the subscriber may use an OSP TV client application having an embedded browser application installed on the client system to generate a request in standard Internet protocol such as HTTP HyperText Transport Protocol . In a packet based implementation data packets may be encapsulated inside a standard Internet tunneling protocol such as for example UDP User Datagram Protocol and routed to the proxy server . The proxy server may include an L2TP Layer Two Tunneling Protocol tunnel capable of establishing a point to point protocol PPP session with the client system .

The proxy server also may act as a buffer between the client system and the Internet and may implement content filtering and time saving techniques. For example the proxy server can check parental controls settings of the client system and request and transmit content from the Internet according to the parental control settings. In addition the proxy server may include one or more caches for storing frequently accessed information. If requested data is determined to be stored in the caches the proxy server may send the information to the client system from the caches and avoid the need to access the Internet .

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging in formation between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways enabling communications through the one or more delivery networks . As shown the client system may access the Internet through the host system .

Examples of each element within the communications system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of . Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and illustrates one possible implementation of the host systems and shown in . describes an aspect of the host system focusing primarily on one particular implementation of IM host complex .

The client system includes a client device and a client controller . The client controller is generally capable of establishing a connection to the host system including the OSP host complex the IM host complex and or the Internet . In one implementation the client controller includes an IM application for communicating with servers in the IM host complex using exclusive IM protocols. The client controller also may include applications such as an OSP client application and or an Internet browser application for communicating with the DSP host complex and the Internet respectively.

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on one or more elements of the host device . However in other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host system includes a login server capable of enabling communications with and authorizing access by client systems to various elements of the host system including an OSP host complex and an IM host complex . The login server may implement one or more authorization procedures to enable simultaneous access to the OSP host complex and the IM host complex . The OSP host complex and the IM host complex are connected through one or more OSP host complex gateways and one or more IM host complex gateways . Each OSP host complex gateway and IM host complex gateway may perform any protocol conversions necessary to enable communication between the OSP host complex the IM host complex and the Internet .

To access the IM host complex and begin an IM session the client system establishes a connection to the login server . The login server typically determines whether the particular subscriber is authorized to access the IM host complex by verifying a subscriber identification and password. If die subscriber is authorized to access the IM host complex the login server employs a hashing technique on the subscriber s screen name to identify a particular IM server for use during the subscriber s session. The login server provides the client system with the IP address of the particular IM server gives the client system an encrypted key i.e. a cookie and breaks the connection. The client system then uses the IP address to establish a connection to the particular IM server through the communications link and obtains access to that IM server using the encrypted key. Typically the client system will be equipped with a Winsock API Application Programming Interface that enables the client system to establish an open TCP connection to the IM server .

Once a connection to the IM server has been established the client system may directly or indirectly transmit data to and access content from the IM server and one or more associated domain servers . The IM server supports the fundamental instant messaging services and the domain servers may support associated services such as for example administrative matters directory services chat and interest groups. In general the purpose of the domain servers is to lighten the load placed on the IM server by assuming responsibility for some of the services within the IM host complex . By accessing the IM server and or the domain server a subscriber can use the IM client application to view whether particular subscribers buddies are online exchange instant messages with particular subscribers participate in group chat rooms trade files such as pictures invitations or documents find other subscribers with similar interests get customized news and stock quotes and search the World Wide Web.

In the implementation of the IM server is directly or indirectly connected to a routing gateway . The routing gateway facilitates the connection between the IM server and one or more alert multiplexors for example by serving as a link minimization tool or hub to connect several IM servers to several alert multiplexors . In general an alert multiplexor maintains a record of alerts and subscribers registered to receive the alerts.

Once the client system is connected to the alert multiplexor a subscriber can register for and or receive one or more types of alerts. The connection pathway between the client system and the alert multiplexor is determined by employing another hashing technique at the IM server to identify the particular alert multiplexor to be used for the subscriber s session. Once the particular multiplexor has been identified the IM server provides the client system with the IP address of the particular alert multiplexor and gives the client system an encrypted key i.e. a cookie . The client system then uses the IP address to connect to the particular alert multiplexor through the communication link and obtains access to the alert multiplexor using the encrypted key.

The alert multiplexor is connected to an alert gate that like the IM host complex gateway is capable of performing the necessary protocol conversions to form a bridge to the OSP host complex . The alert gate is the interface between the IM host complex and the physical servers such as servers in the OSP host complex where state changes are occurring. In general the information regarding state changes will be gathered and used by the IM host complex . However the alert multiplexor also may communicate with the OSP host complex through the IM host complex gateway for example to provide the servers and subscribers of the OSP host complex with certain information gathered from the alert gate .

The alert gate can detect an alert feed corresponding to a particular type of alert. The alert gate may include a piece of code alert receive code capable of interacting with another piece of code alert broadcast code on the physical server where a state change occurs. In general the alert receive code installed on the alert gate instructs the alert broadcast code installed on the physical server to send an alert feed to the alert gate upon the occurrence of a particular state change. Upon detecting an alert feed the alert gate contacts the alert multiplexor which in turn informs the client system of the detected alert feed.

In the implementation of the IM host complex also includes a subscriber profile server connected to a database for storing large amounts of subscriber profile data. The subscriber profile server may be used to enter retrieve edit manipulate or otherwise process subscriber profile data. In one implementation a subscriber s profile data includes for example the subscriber s buddy list alert preferences designated stocks identified interests and geographic location. The subscriber may enter edit and or delete profile data using an installed IM client application on the client system to interact with the subscriber profile server .

Because the subscriber s data is stored in the IM host complex the subscriber does not have to reenter or update such information in the event that the subscriber accesses the IM host complex using a new or a different client system . Accordingly when a subscriber accesses the IM host complex the IM server can instruct the subscriber profile server to retrieve the subscriber s profile data from the database and to provide for example the subscriber s buddy list to the IM server and the subscriber s alert preferences to the alert multiplexor . The subscriber profile server also may communicate with other servers in the OSP host complex to share subscriber profile data with other services. Alternatively user profile data may be saved locally on the client device .

Referring to a sender a recipient and a host exchange communications according to a procedure . The procedure may be implemented by any suitable type of hardware e.g. device computer computer system equipment component software e.g. program application instructions code storage medium e.g. disk external memory internal memory propagated signal or combination thereof.

Examples of each element of are broadly described with respect to above. In particular the sender and the recipient may have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client devices and and or client controllers and . The host may have attributes comparable to those described with respect to host devices and and or host controllers and . The sender the recipient and or the host may be directly or indirectly interconnected through a known or described delivery network such as delivery networks and .

In one implementation the sender is associated with a first subscriber the recipient is associated with a second subscriber and each of the sender and the recipient includes an application for accessing the host . A subscriber s transfer preferences may be maintained locally at the application or remotely at the host . Each subscriber may use the application to set individual preferences for allowing messages and or files to be transferred to and from other subscribers. Typically a graphical user interface UI is displayed to allow each subscriber to select among various levels of security and or to grant or deny access to others subscribers. For example transfer preferences may be set to allow all users or only certain users e.g. users included in the subscriber s buddy list to contact the recipient . If the transfer preferences of the recipient have been set to block a subscriber attempting contact the sender may display a UI indicating that instant messaging with the recipient is unavailable.

More specifically the sender is a subscriber and or a client e.g. client system and the host includes one or more host complexes e.g. OSP host complex and or IM host complex for providing instant messaging capability and coordinating the transfer of electronic data between subscribers. The sender may access the host using any available device and or controller.

An example of a device is a general purpose computer capable of responding to and executing instructions in a defined manner. Other examples include a special purpose computer a personal computer PC a workstation a server a laptop a Web enabled telephone a Web enabled personal digital assistant PDA an interactive television set a settop box a video tape recorder VTR a DVD player an on board i.e. vehicle mounted computer or any other component machine tool equipment or some combination thereof capable of responding to and executing instructions.

An example of a controller is a software application e.g. operating system browser application microbrowser application server application proxy application gateway application tunneling application e mail application IM client online service provider client application interactive television client application and or ISP client loaded on a device to command and direct communications enabled by the device. Other examples include a computer program a piece of code an instruction another device or some combination thereof for independently or collectively instructing the device to interact and operate as desired. The controller may be embodied permanently or temporarily in any type of machine component physical or virtual equipment storage medium or propagated signal capable of providing instructions to a device. In particular the controller e.g. software application computer program may be stored on a storage media or device e.g. ROM magnetic diskette or propagated signal readable by a general or special purpose programmable computer such that if the storage media or device is read by a computer system the functions described herein are performed.

In the following example it is assumed that the transfer preferences are set to allow messages and files to be transferred between the sender and the recipient . To communicate using instant messaging the sender and the recipient access the host concurrently. In order to access the host the sender and the recipient each separately request authentication or recognition by the host . The request identifies the associated subscriber to the host for subsequent identification to other subscribers using a unique screen name. The sender and the recipient each may include a Winsock API for opening and establishing a TCP connection to the host .

The host verifies a subscriber s information e.g. screen name and password against data stored in a subscriber database. If the subscriber s information is verified the host authorizes access and or acknowledges the subscriber. If the subscriber s information is not verified the host denies access and sends an error message.

After being authorized a direct i.e. socket connection may be established through the host to allow the sender and the recipient to communicate. The sender and the recipient use this connection to communicate with the host and with each other. This connection remains available during the time that the sender and the recipient are accessing the host or until either party decides to terminate.

Upon accessing the host a buddy list is displayed to the subscriber. In general a subscriber s buddy list is maintained with or accessible as part of a subscriber s user profile and may be made accessible using a user interface UI that provides the online status and capabilities of certain screen names i.e. buddies identified by the subscriber. In particular the host informs the sender whether identified buddies are online i.e. currently accessing the host . The host also informs any subscriber who has identified the sender as a buddy that the sender is currently online.

A buddy list may be used to facilitate IM communications between subscribers. For example a subscriber can activate an IM user interface that is pre addressed to a buddy simply by selecting the screen name of an online buddy from the buddy list.

Alternatively by way of example if a recipient is not a buddy the first subscriber generally initiates IM communications by activating a blank IM user interface and then addressing that interface to the screen name of the intended recipient. When necessary a subscriber can look up the screen name of an intended recipient using the intended recipiient s e mail address.

In the implementation of a sender a recipient and a host interact according to a procedure that extends the functionality of instant messaging by passively personalizing the buddy list of at least one of the sender and the recipient

Initially the sender accesses the host step . The sender designates at least one recipient to receive an instant message step . The instant message may be for example a text or non text e.g. audio video instant message created by the sender

More specifically in one implementation of this process in which the sender has previously designated a screen name associated with the intended recipient as a buddy a UI e.g. buddy list indicating the online status and capabilities of the recipient is displayed to the sender . Thus the sender can confirm that the recipient is able to communicate i.e. is online and then designate the recipient for receipt of an instant message by selecting e.g. clicking the screen name associated with the recipient to open an IM interface step .

After an IM recipient is selected step the host detects the capabilities of the recipient step and reports the capabilities of the recipient to the sender step . In one implementation a network of servers e.g. IM servers on the host monitors and updates the online status client version and device type of connected subscribers and reports or enables access to this information by other subscribers in real time or substantially in real time. Yet the accuracy and timeliness of information reported using an instant messaging interface may depend on factors such as a subscriber s hardware e.g. device type software e.g. client version and or transfer preferences e.g. blocked screen names .

Next the sender receives the report from the host step and displays a UI corresponding to the capabilities of the sender and or the recipient step . In general if the sender e.g. client system is not voice enabled and or video enabled the sender displays a standard instant messaging UI. If the sender is voice enabled and or video enabled then the sender may be configured to display a voice enabled and or video enabled UI.

The sender then composes a message in the IM interface step and transmits the instant message to the host step . In general the sender transmits the message by selecting a send button.

The host receives the instant message from the sender step and then optionally authenticates the instant message step . In one implementation the instant message includes header information identifying the message type the screen name and or IP address of the sender and the recipient and a randomly generated security number. A server e.g. IM server on the host may authenticate the instant message by matching the screen names and or IP addresses with those of valid subscribers stored in a reverse look up table. In the event that either the sender or the recipient is not associated with a valid subscriber the host reports an error message. The host then sends the instant message to the recipient step .

The recipient receives the instant message from the host step and then accepts the instant message step . Accepting the instant message may occur automatically if the subscriber that sent the instant message has been preauthorized according to the transfer preferences of the recipient

For example acceptance may occur automatically if the sender is included on a buddy list maintained by the recipient . Alternatively accepting the instant message may include displaying a warning UI based on the transfer preferences of the recipient . For example the preferences of the recipient may be set to present an accept message dialog before displaying messages from any users or certain users e.g. users not included in the subscriber s buddy list .

After the instant message is accepted step the host establishes an IM session step that enables the sender and the recipient to communicate substantially in real time. Establishing an IM session generally involves connecting one or more communication channels for transferring data between the sender and the recipient . The communication channels may allow the sender and the recipient to transfer data directly with each other e.g. over a peer to peer connection or may require the data to pass through an intermediary e.g. host .

An active IM session may use one or more communication channels such as for example a generic signaling interface GSI channel a control channel and a data channel. The GSI channel may be used to establish the initial connection. During this connection the local IP addresses are exchanged. After the initial connection phase is done the GSI channel is no longer used. By using the GSI channel the exchange of local IP addresses is done only when both subscribers authorize such an exchange. Thus using the GSI channel protects subscribers from having their local IP addresses automatically obtained without their consent.

The control channel is typically a TCP IP socket for which the IP address and port number of the remote side are obtained through the GSI channel. The control channel may be used to send receive control attributes of an active session. For example because some firewalls will not allow a connection to be initiated by an external device with a socket on the inside of the firewall a connection is attempted from both sides of the session.

The data channel also is typically a TCP IP socket and is used to transport data packets using various protocols such as UDP and TCP. In general UDP is used since it minimizes latency. However because some firewalls will not allow UDP packets to pass through the data channel may use a different protocol such as TCP. The client may indicate a particular mode i.e. TCP UDP or alternatively an auto mode where it attempts a UDP test and upon failure resorts to a secondary protocol e.g. TCP .

When an IM session has been established successfully step the sender and the recipient may exchange communications substantially in real time. In one implementation the recipient displays an instant message received from the sender step . Referring to for example a UI that may be displayed by the sender and or the recipient includes an IM window for displaying a running transcript of an IM session and a text message area for entering the text of an instant message. In this example the IM session includes a first instant message from a first subscriber having a first screen name ProductRep and second instant message from a second subscriber having a second screen name Subscriber . Although the first and second subscribers of this example have each sent and received instant messages the following description is provided with reference to the first subscriber as being associated with the sender and the second subscriber as being associated with the recipient

The UI also includes an IM toolbar for changing text or background colors changing text size emphasizing text e.g. bold italic or underlining and inserting objects e.g. emoticons hyperlinks images . In addition the UI includes IM buttons for performing IM functions such as notifying the OSP of offending conduct blocking a subscriber adding an IM contact e.g. buddy initiating an audio or video IM session getting the profile of a sender and sending instant messages.

When an IM session is closed the sender and the recipient may not exchange communications until a new IM session is established between the sender and the recipient . An IM session may be closed when the participants close the IM window when either the sender or the recipient disconnects from the host or when a configurable period of time has passed during which no communications are exchanged between the sender and the recipient

During an active IM session the host may moderate the IM session. In one implementation a server e.g. IM server domain server on the host is configured to moderate an IM session between at least one sender and at least one recipient . Moderating an IM session may include managing load conditions of the host by compressing decompressing caching and or allocating resources to efficiently store and forward instant messages.

Moderating the IM session also may include updating an IM log step . In general an IM log includes a chronological record of IM activity e.g. the existence or status of separate and or successful IM sessions the opening or closing of an IM session the communication of instant messages during each separate and or successful IM session the request or receipt of alerts or the connection or disconnection with the host . The IM log may be stored and maintained on the host e.g. by database of IM host the sender e.g. by memory of the client device and or the recipient e.g. by memory of the client device . Entries in the IM log may be ordered deleted edited and or otherwise managed by the host the sender and or the recipient . For example the host may queue order and arrange entries in the IM log based on time subscribers e.g. screen names topic relevance and or any other ranking criteria.

Typically each subscriber will have a corresponding IM log for recording IM activity of the subscriber. However an IM log may be associated with a group of subscribers or may simply be used to chronologically log activities of all subscribers communicating over or with the device used to maintain or store the log.

Updating the IM log may include recording the screen names of participants of an IM session. The sender the recipient and or the host may be configured to detect at least one identity e.g. the screen names associated with an instant message during an IM session for example by parsing the header information of an instant message. Typically the screen names recorded in the IM log of a particular subscriber will be supplemented with information including the time the IM session was established and the screen names of other subscribers that participated in the IM session where several subscribers communicate using group IM. Updating the IM log also may include tracking the instant messages sent during an IM session and recording the time that each instant message was sent and received recording the time the IM session was closed and or recording the time the sender or the recipient disconnected from the host .

A list of screen names for the most recent IM communications may be derived from the IM log automatically step . The sender the recipient and or the host may be configured to derive such a list. For example at any time the last N different screen names with whom a particular subscriber has had an IM session may be determined from an updated IM log. The number N may be any predetermined number set according to preferences of the sender the recipient and or the host or it may be user selectable.

In one implementation the host e.g. profile server or IM server accesses an IM log associated with a particular subscriber that is stored on the host e.g. database . The host examines the IM log and creates a list of N different screen names based on an associated time or a relative position of each screen name. The associated time may be a time that an IM session was established a time that an instant message was sent or received a time that an IM session was completed a time that the sender or the recipient connected to or disconnected from the host or some other time. Typically the list of N screen names will be ordered with the most recent screen name being listed first.

The IM log and or the list of most recent IM contacts may be configured to store only the last N different screen names with which a particular subscriber has had an IM session. The IM log may be maintained using a least recently used methodology. For example when a new IM session is established the screen name of each participant may be compared to the list of most recent IM contacts. If the screen name does not already appear in the list the screen name is added and the least recent IM contact i.e. oldest IM contact is reduced in order or altogether removed from the list so that the list includes only N different screen names. If the screen name already appears in the list the list is reordered so that the screen name appears at the top of the list. In either case the updated list includes N different screen names listed in order of most recently used IM session. In some implementations the list may be filtered to include only screen names that do not already appear on the subscriber s buddy list.

In another example when an IM session is completed or when either the sender or the recipient disconnects from the host the screen name of each participant may be compared to the list of most recent IM contacts. If the screen name does already appear in the list the screen name is added and the least recent IM contact i.e. oldest IM contact is removed from the list if necessary to maintain only N different screen names on the list otherwise the least recent IM contact may be merely demoted. If the screen name already appears in the list the list is reordered so that the screen name appears at the top of the list. In either case the final list includes N different screen names listed in order of most recent IM session. In one implementation the screen name of each participant may be compared to the list of most recent IM contacts only when an IM session is completed or only when either the sender or the recipient disconnects from the host such that the list includes only the most recent IM contacts of the most recent closed IM sessions.

In another example the IM log may be maintained using other methodologies such as for example a first in first out FIFO methodology. For example when an new IM session is established the screen name of each participant may be added to the list and the screen name first added to the list may be reduced in order or altogether removed from the list whether or not it was the screen name least recently used actively in a conversation thus maintaining the threshold number of different screen names. In some implementations the list may be filtered to include only the screen names that do not already appear on the subscriber s list.

After a list of N different screen names is compiled a user profile is accessed step . In general a user profile corresponds to a particular subscriber and may include for example the subscriber s buddy list alert preferences identified interests geographic location and user contact information e.g. phone numbers e mail addresses screen names and mailing address . The user profile of a subscriber may be stored and maintained on the host e.g. IM host database the sender e.g. client device memory and or the recipient e.g. client device memory . In one implementation portions of the user profile may be stored and maintained in several remote locations. Typically a subscriber actively enters edits and or deletes the content of the user profile for example by using an installed IM client application to fill out an electronic form. In this case however access of the user profile may occur transparently to the subscriber. That is the user profile is accessed without requiring any user action e.g. selection or configuration by the subscriber . In one implementation the host e.g. profile server IM server accesses the user profile. In other implementations an installed IM client application is configured to transparently access a local user profile.

Then the user profile is passively configured step . That is configuration occurs transparently to the subscriber and requires no subscriber action e.g. selection by the subscriber . Configuration of the user profile may include the creating and or modifying of a subscriber s user preferences such as for example a buddy list address book calendar notification settings e.g. alerts or any other personalized attributes associated with the subscriber.

In one implementation a buddy list included in a subscriber s user profile is configured based on the updated IM log. In particular a buddy list associated with at least one of the sender and the recipient may be passively configured to include a list of most recent contacts step .

Referring to a UI that may be passively configured includes a Buddy List Window having a List Setup box step of . The List Setup box includes one or more IM groups for example a Recent Contacts group a Buddies group a Co Workers group and a Family group . Each IM group includes one or more IM group members identified by screen name for example Recent Contacts group members Buddies group members Co Workers group members and Family group members . The List Setup box also includes List Setup buttons for performing IM functions such as adding a screen name adding a group deleting a screen name or group and finding a screen name of a subscriber. The Buddy List Window further includes Buddy List buttons for performing IM functions such as linking to an IM related web page entering an away message and setting IM related user preferences.

In one implementation the size of the IM groups may be limited to a threshold number of screen names which may be independent of a size limit established for the entirety of the Buddy List in which it is included. Furthermore specific IM groups may have different size limitations. For example the Recent Contacts group may be subject to the threshold number limitation on screen names and the Buddies group may be subject to a different threshold number limitation of screen names each of which may be different from a size limit of the Buddy List.

The IM groups may be actively or passively created as discussed below. The Buddies group may be a standard or default group provided with every installation of an IM client. In general when a subscriber opens an IM account the Buddies group is created automatically. Initially the Buddies group is empty. To populate the Buddies group a subscriber must actively enter a screen name for each person with whom the subscriber desires to communicate. For example using the List Setup Buttons a subscriber actively entered the screen name for each of the Buddies group members e.g. Buddy Friend Pal . In one implementation the host e.g. IM host provides a reverse lookup function that allows subscribers to search for screen names using various criteria of subscribers e.g. name location c mail address interests .

The Co Workers group and the Family group may be personalized groups actively created by the subscriber. In general subscribers may personalize their buddy lists by creating different group and categorizing screen names. For example using the List Setup Buttons a subscriber can actively create the Co Workers group and the Family group . After the Co Workers group and the Family group are created the subscriber has conventionally been required to actively enter a screen name for each of the Co Workers group members e.g. Boss Employee Supervisor and to actively enter a screen name for each of the Family group members e.g. Brother Dad Mom Sister . A screen name may occupy more than one personalized group.

Like the Buddies Group the Recent Contacts group may be a standard or default group provided with every installation of an IM client. In general when a subscriber opens an IM account the Recent Contacts group is created automatically. Initially the Recent Contacts group is empty. However unlike the Buddies group a subscriber does not have to actively enter screen names to populate the Recent Contacts group . That is the Recent Contacts group may be created populated and or modified without user action e.g. clicks data entry . For example screen names are added to and removed from the Recent Contacts group as IM sessions are opened and closed and or as membership limits are imposed on the Recent Contacts group. As such in one implementation screen names are added to the Recent Contacts group passively as successful IM sessions are established used for communication or closed with the subscriber and these screen names may be removed from that group as maximum group size is reached. In another example the screen name of each of the Recent Contacts group members e.g. Boss ProductRep Supervisor SalesRep Employee is passively added to the Recent Contacts group as successful IM session are closed with the subscriber or when either the sender or the recipient disconnects from the host .

In one implementation the subscriber participates in an IM session with each of the Recent Contacts group members in the following order Employee SalesRep Supervisor ProductRep and Boss. As each IM session is established a screen name for each of the Recent Contacts group members is added in sequence to the Recent Contacts group resulting in the most recent contact being listed first. In this example the order is implied from the visual hierarchy however numeric or other explicit visual indicators also may be used to make clear the relative order of recent IM sessions. Furthermore in this example it does not matter which subscriber initiates the IM session i.e. who sent the initial instant message or whether a response to the initial instant message is sent. However the screen names may be ordered separated into different groups or otherwise differentiated to reflect this information. A screen name of a particular person may be added whenever a successful IM session is established used for communication or closed between the subscriber and the particular person. Screen names included in the Recent Contacts group also may occupy other groups e.g. Co Workers group or alternatively the Recent Contacts group may include only the screen name of persons not included in select or all other groups.

In another implementation as each IM session is completed or when one or both of the sender or the recipient disconnects from the host a screen name for the participant is added in sequence to the Recent Contacts group resulting in the most recently closed discontinued contact being listed first. Moreover in this implementation a screen name of a particular person is added whenever a successful IM session is closed between the subscriber and the particular person or when either subscriber disconnects from the host. In this example it does not matter which subscriber closed the IM session e.g. who closed the IM window who disconnected from the host or which subscriber disconnected from the host. However the screen names may be ordered separated into different groups or otherwise so differentiated to reflect this information.

Referring to a UI that may be passively configured includes a Buddy List Window having an Online box step of . In general the Online box displays the online status and capabilities of certain screen names identified by the subscriber in the List Setup box for example List Setup box of . In one implementation the host e.g. IM host IM server informs the sender e.g. client device IM client application whether the subscribers associated with the screen names are online i.e. currently accessing the host .

The Online box includes one or more online lists with each list corresponding to an IM group. For example the Online box includes a Recent Contacts list a Buddies list a Co Workers list and a Family list . Several of these online lists e.g. and include one or more screen names corresponding to IM group members that currently are online. In the implementation of the Recent Contacts list identifies certain online Recent Contacts members the Buddies list identifies a certain online Buddies member the Co Workers list identifies certain online Co Workers members and the Family list identifies a certain online Family member . The Online box also includes an Offline list identifying offline members from one or more of the IM groups separately not shown or collectively. The Online box further includes Online buttons for performing IM functions such as displaying an IM window sending an invitation to enter a chat room and finding profile information associated with a screen name.

The Online box facilitates IM communication between subscribers. For example a subscriber can activate a pre addressed IM window simply by clicking the screen name of an online group member.

Referring to a UI that may be invoked using the buddy list and displayed to the sender and or the recipient includes an IM window including a running transcript of some or all of an IM session and a text message area for entering the text of an instant message an IM toolbar and IM buttons . In this example the IM session includes a first instant message from a first subscriber having a first screen name Subscriber and second instant message from a second subscriber having a second screen name ProductRep . The first subscriber may be associated with the sender and the second subscriber may be associated with the recipient

Referring to in one implementation the UI is displayed to a first subscriber associated with a sender as follows step . First the first subscriber participates in an IM session with each of the Recent Contacts group members in the following order Employee SalesRep Supervisor ProductRep and Boss step . As each IM session is established a screen name for each of the Recent Contacts group members is added in sequence to the Recent Contacts group resulting in the most recent contact being listed first step . Additionally and or alternatively as each IM session is closed step or when either the sender or the recipient disconnect from the host step a screen name for each of the Recent Contacts group members is added in sequence to the Recent Contacts group resulting in the most recently closed discontinued contact being listed first. Screen names included in the Recent Contacts group also may occupy other groups e.g. Co Workers group .

Still further the order of screen names within the Recent Contacts group may be rearranged based on the relative time of session closure or disconnection. For instance assume that a first IM session with Employee X is opened and closed a second IM session with Employee Y is subsequently opened and closed and a third IM session with Employee X is later opened and closed. In this case before the third IM session is initiated the Recent Contacts group may order Employee Y ahead of Employee X since the second IM session opened and or closed before the first IM session. However after the third IM session their order may be reversed to reflect the opening and or closing of an IM session the third with Employee X which occurred more recently than with Employee Y.

In any of these implementations the Recent Contacts group only may include the screen name of a particular person that is not included in any other group.

Next the first subscriber views a UI indicating the online status of an intended recipient of an instant message. In this example the first subscriber intends to send an instant message to the second subscriber. Here the screen name of the second subscriber ProductRep was not actively added to the UI by the first subscriber. Rather the screen name ProductRep was added passively to the Recent Contacts group when the first subscriber and second subscriber established used closed or disconnected a prior successful IM session. By viewing the UI and in particular the Recent Contacts list the first subscriber is notified that the second subscriber is online. Namely the screen name of the second subscriber ProductRep appears as one of the online Recent Contact members .

The first subscriber then sends an instant message intended for the second subscriber by interacting with the UI . For example the first subscriber can invoke display of an IM UI pre addressed to the second subscriber by clicking the screen name of the second subscriber ProductRep in the Recent Contacts list . The first subscriber enters the first instant message into the text message area and clicks one of the IM buttons namely the send button. Finally the first subscriber displays the second instant message i.e. the reply from the second subscriber in the IM window .

Passively configuring a user profile and hence a passively configured subscriber buddy list benefits subscribers by facilitating IM communication. For example a subscriber can view the online status of and create pre addressed instant messages to recent IM contacts. This feature is particularly helpful to new IM users who would otherwise have to spend time and effort setting user preferences and entering data. Additionally it is helpful to subscribers who accidentally or intentionally close sessions with IM contacts for whom they have no other record of their screen name only to need that screen name for later IM contact. The persistent state of the recent IM contacts list enables the list to persist through log outs and power downs.

Additionally a passively configured user profile and hence a passively configured subscriber buddy list may be made accessible through any of several different devices independent of the device that was being used at the time of the IM session that resulted in the passive addition of or status change with respect to the IM contact in the Recent Contacts group. For example in a client host model the profile may be stored at the host or some other location centrally accessible to various client devices operable by the subscriber. As a result a first subscriber may participate in an instant messaging session with a second subscriber using a personal computer. At the end of the instant messaging session the screen name of the second subscriber may be passively added to the first subscriber s Recent Contacts group. When the first subscriber later uses a PDA to access the IM service the first subscriber s Recent Contacts group may be presented on the PDA. In this instance the Recent Contacts group includes the screen name of the second subscriber that was added to the group based on the IM session that the first subscriber participated in using the personal computer. This enables the first subscriber to initiate another IM session with the second subscriber by selecting the second subscriber s screen name from the Recent Contacts group presented on the PDA. Thus the passively configured buddy list specifically the Recent Contact Group persists across different devices.

In one implementation a passively configured user profile and or a passively configured buddy list may include information from communication sessions other than IM sessions. Referring to a sender a recipient and a host exchange communications according to a procedure . The procedure may be implemented by any suitable type of hardware e.g. device computer computer system equipment component software e.g. program application instructions code storage medium e.g. disk external memory internal memory progated signal or combination thereof.

Examples of each element of are broadly described with respect to above. In particular the sender and the recipient may have attributes comparable to those described above with respect to client devices and and or client controllers and . The host may have attributes comparable to those described above with respect to host devices and and or host controllers and . The sender the recipient and or the host may be directly or indirectly interconnected through a known or described delivery network such as delivery networks and .

More specifically the sender may include a subscriber and or a client e.g. client system and the host may include one or more host complexes e.g. OSP host complex and or IM host complex for providing communications capabilities and coordinating the transfer of electronic and or voice data between subscribers. The sender may access the host using any available device and or controller. In the implementation of a sender a recipient and a host interact according to a procedure that extends the functionality of IM by passively personalizing the buddy list of at least one of the senders and the recipient based on IM communication sessions and other types of communication sessions involving the sender and the recipient . Communication sessions other than IM sessions may include an e mail communication session a phone communication session e.g. a wired or wireless phone communication session a voice over IP VoIP communication session and other types of communication sessions. Hence the sender and or recipient may include devices capable of enabling such alternative communication sessions e.g. phone VoIP e mail .

Initially the sender accesses the host step . The sender designates at least one recipient with which to communicate for example by means other than IM step . The communication may be for example an e mail a phone conversation or a voice over IP conversation initiated by the sender . In one implementation when the communication is an e mail message the e mail message may include header information identifying the message the screen name and or IP addresses of the sender and the recipient

The sender then communicates with the recipient by transmitting a communication to the host step . The host receives the communication from the sender step and then optionally authenticates the communication step . A server on the host may authenticate the communication by matching the screen names and or IP addresses with those of valid subscribers stored in a look up table e.g. a reverse look up table . In the event that either the sender or the recipient is not associated with a valid subscriber the host reports an error message. The host then sends the communication to the recipient step and the recipient receives the communication from the host step .

During a communication session the host may moderate the communication session step . In one implementation a server on the host is configured to moderate a communication session between at least one sender and at least one recipient . Moderating the communication session may include managing load conditions of the host by compressing decompressing caching and or allocating resources to store and forward communications.

Moderating the communication session step also may include updating a communication log. In general a communication log includes an organized e.g. chronological and or categorized record of communication activity e.g. the existence or status of separate and or successful e mail communications phone communication sessions voice over IP sessions or the connection or disconnection with the host . The communication log may be stored and maintained on the host e.g. by database of IM host the sender e.g. by memory of the sender client device and or the recipient e.g. by memory of the recipient client device . Entries in the communication log may be ordered deleted edited and or otherwise managed by the host the sender and or the recipient . For example the host may queue order and arrange entries in the communication log based on time subscribers e.g. screen names topic relevance phone number IP address and or other ranking criteria.

Typically each subscriber will have a corresponding communication log for recording communication activity of the subscriber. However the communication log may be associated with a group of subscribers or may simply be used to chronologically log activities of all subscribers communicating over or with the device used to maintain or store the log.

Updating the communication log step may include deriving and or recording identifiers e.g. screen names aliases or names of participants of the communication session whether an IM session or session type other than an IM. The sender the recipient and or the host may be configured to detect at least one identity e.g. the screen name associated with a communication during a communication session for example by parsing the header information of an e mail. For a phone communication a phone number of the sender and or the recipient may be detected e.g. from ANI information accompanying communication packets or otherwise associated with the communication session and or reported to the host. The phone number may be used to derive the screen names of the participants of the phone conversation.

A list of screen names for the most recent communications including communications other than instant messages may be derived from the communication log automatically step . The sender the recipient and or the host may be configured to derive such a list which may be limited by various preselection criteria such as a number N of communications of a selected type or of all types collectively aggregated or a proximity in the time of the communication to the time of the display or example at any time the last N different screen names with whom a particular subscriber has had a communication session may be determined from an updated communication log. The number N may be any predetermined number set according to preferences of the sender the recipient and or the host or it may be user selectable. The manner for storing and ordering the communication log may be as described above with respect to the IM log of .

After a list of N different screen names is compiled the user profile is accessed step and passively configured step . That is the configuration or reconfiguration of the user profile may occur transparently to the subscriber and may require no overt action by the subscriber e.g. selection by the subscriber . Configuration of the user profile may include the creating and or modifying of a subscriber s user preferences such as for example one or more buddy lists address book calendar notification settings e.g. alerts or any other personalized attributes associated with the subscriber.

In one implementation a buddy list included in a subscriber s user profile is configured based on the updated communication log. In particular a buddy list associated with at least one of the sender and the recipient may be configured to include a list of most recent contacts from communication sessions other than IM sessions step . The passively configured list of most recent contacts may be displayed in a user interface step .

As described above with respect to UI of and UI of the user interfaces may be passively configured to include a Recent Contacts group for communication sessions. The Recent Contacts group may reflect communication sessions having a type other than an IM session. For instance a Recent Contacts group for communication sessions other than IM sessions may be included as an integrated and or distinct subset of the Recent Contacts group that also includes recent contacts from M sessions it may be a separate group unto itself or it may be further split into one or more groups based on the type of communication session with which the recent contact occurred. For example there may be a Recent Contacts E mail group a Recent Contacts Phone group and or a Recent Contacts for Voice Over IP group which may be displayed as subsets of or which may be substituted for the Recent Contacts group shown by .

Additionally UI of and UI of may be configured e.g. passively configured to display other types of information to a user in addition to or in substitution of that described above. In one implementation for example UI and UI may include information for group members other than or in addition to the screen names for group members such as for example contact information e.g. phone numbers e mail addresses and mailing addresses . The contact information may be obtained from a user profile that may be stored and maintained on the host of e.g. IM host database the sender of e.g. client device memory and or the recipient of e.g. client device memory .

The information displayed under each group may be based on the type of recent communication session that caused the information to be displayed. For example with respect to an identity with whom communications were recently conducted or closed whether by IM or otherwise the Recent IM Contacts group may be passively configured to display an identifier e.g. a screen name alias or name reflecting information useful in establishing communications with entities with whom IM sessions were recently established or closed discontinued. This information may include a screen name of the entity e.g. if they are available online or it may include other information reflecting contact information for session types other than IM e.g. VoIP e mail etc .

Similarly for example with respect to an identity with whom communications were recently conducted or closed whether by e mail or otherwise the Recent E mail Contacts group may be passively configured to display an identifier e.g. screen name alias or name useful in establishing communications with entities with whom e mail sessions were recently established or closed discontinued. This information may include an e mail address of the entity or it may include other information reflecting contact information for session types other than e mail e.g. IM VoIP e mail etc .

Similarly for example with respect to an identity with whom communications were recently conducted or closed whether by VoIP or otherwise the Recent Voice over IP Contacts group may be passively configured to display an identifier e.g. screen name alias or name useful in establishing communications with entities with whom VoIP sessions were recently established or closed discontinued. This information may include information for establishing a VoIP session or it may include other information reflecting contact information for session types other than VoIP e.g. IM VoIP e mail etc .

Similarly for example with respect to an identity with whom communications were recently conducted or closed whether by telephony or otherwise the Recent Phone Contacts group may be passively configured to display an identifier e.g. screen name alias or name useful in establishing communications with entities with whom telephony sessions were recently established or closed discontinued. This information may include a telephone number of the identity or it may include other information reflecting contact information for session types other than telephony e.g. IM VoIP e mail etc .

The information displayed within each Contacts group may be used to initiate a communication session using one or more particular types of communications. For example selecting e.g. clicking an identifier listed in the Recent IM Contacts group may invoke a pre addressed IM window UI of to enable an IM session. Selecting an identifier and or an e mail address listed in the Recent E mail Contacts group may invoke a pre addressed interface to send an e mail to the recent e mail contact and or may invoke a pre addressed IM window to enable an IM session. The user may be able to select the type of communication to be used or a default communication type may be selected for the user when more than one type of communication is available for an entity identified by the Recent Contacts group or one or more of the Recent Contact subgroups or substitutes.

For example if the recent e mail contact is detected to be online an IM communication may be selected as the default. If the IM communication is not available for instance because the recent e mail contact is not online then another communication type may be used e.g. an e mail communication or a phone communication . Selecting an identifier and or the displayed Voice over IP information listed in the Recent Voice over IP Contacts group may invoke a voice over IP interface and or initiate a voice over IP communication session with the recent voice over IP contact and also may invoke a pre addressed IM window to enable an IM session. Selecting an identifier and or a phone number listed in the Recent Phone Contacts group may invoke a phone interface and or initiate a phone communication session with the recent phone contact and also may invoke a pre addressed IM window to enable an IM session. Presence information may be useful in discerning which of several alternative communication schemes is available or most appropriate and even to chose between several non IM communication types.

The contact information e.g. screen name e mail address phone number or VoIP contact information within each group may be hidden may be explicitly displayed or may be revealed by moving a pointing device over the information that is displayed to reveal additional information. For example when default contact information is displayed irrespective of entity availability the cursor may be moved over information displayed in the Recent Contacts group to reveal additional contact information such as for example an e mail address or a phone number to supplement a display that is limited to screen name. Revealing the additional information is useful when a particular communication type is not available for example where a screen name is displayed for an entity that is not online. When this occurs a communication session over an alternate communication type may be established using the additional information that is explicitly displayed or revealed.

In one implementation a passively configured user profile and thus a passively configured subscriber buddy list including one or more types of recent contact groups may be made accessible through any of several different devices independent of the device that was being used at the time of the communication session that resulted in the passive addition of or status change with respect to the recent contact in one or more of the Recent Contact group types. For example in a client host model the user profile and communication log may be stored at the host or at some other location centrally accessible to various client devices operable by the subscriber. Thus the passively configured subscriber buddy list may be maintained at the host and may be made accessible to multiple different devices. Alternatively the passively configured subscriber buddy list may be made accessible to one device and then pushed and or pulled from device to device.

As a result a subscriber may participate in an e mail session with an e mail contact using a personal computer. An identifier and or e mail address of the recent e mail contact may be passively added to the subscriber Recent E mail Contacts group. Concurrently an identifier and or e mail address for that recent e mail contact also may be reflected within the subscriber s Recent Contact group e.g. Recent E mail Contacts group presented on another device e.g. a PDA . The subscriber may select the identifier and or e mail address to initiate a communication session e.g. an e mail session or an IM session with the recent e mail contact from either device. Similarly other recent contacts from all of the communication types may be presented to the user across multiple devices to enable different types of communication sessions to be initiated from one or more of the devices.

In one implementation the sender may not need to transmit the communication to the host step and instead may transmit the communication directly to the recipient without sending the communication through the host . In this case steps and may be optional. In this instance the host may be notified by the sender by the recipient and or by a third party that a communication session other than an IM session occurred between the sender and the recipient . Upon such notification the host updates a communication log for the sender and the recipient step derives identifiers for the sender and the recipient step accesses the user profile for the sender and the recipient e.g. buddy list step and passively configures the user profile step based upon the received notification. Additionally or alternatively the sender or the recipient may update a communication log for the sender and the recipient step derive identifiers for the sender and the recipient step access the user profile for the sender and the recipient e.g. buddy list step and passively configure the user profile step .

More specifically a phone communication may take place between the sender and the recipient without communicating the phone conversation through the host . In this case the host may be notified by the sender by the recipient or by a third party e.g. a telephone carrier that a communication session occurred between the sender and the recipient . The host then may update a communication log for the sender and the recipient step derive screen names for the sender and the recipient step access the user profile for the sender and the recipient e.g. buddy list step and passively configure the user profile step based upon the received notification.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. In other implementations for example other groups e.g. Frequent Contacts Popular Contacts may be passively created and maintained in a persistent state in order to facilitate instant messaging. In yet other implementations for example other groups and lists may be passively created and maintained in a persistent state in order to facilitate instant messaging. These other groups and lists may include instant messages received knock knocks received i.e. instant messages received from unknown identities but accepted and or declined instant messages sent without receiving a response instant messages sent to Buddies instant messages sent to non Buddies IM sessions where at least a threshold number of messages have been exchanged and instant messages received to the exclusion of knock knocks.

