---

title: Treatment for cement composite articles
abstract: A cement fiberboard substrate is treated on at least one edge of the substrate with an aqueous solution containing at least one phosphorus acid or salt of a phosphorus acid. The treated edge is overcoated with a sealer, primer or topcoat. The resulting prefinished fiber cement siding product has improved coating adhesion, especially near burnished regions and near edges and corners proximate the burnished regions. A phosphorus acid or salt of a phosphorus acid also may be added to the sealer to provide further improvement in coating adhesion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08202581&OS=08202581&RS=08202581
owner: Valspar Sourcing, Inc.
number: 08202581
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080215
---
This application claims priority from U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 890 450 filed Feb. 16 2007 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Fiber cement composite siding is a high quality building material having many advantages over vinyl aluminum or wood siding. One major advantage is the significantly better durability of fiber cement siding. Fiber cement siding typically includes a substrate made from wood pulp or synthetic fiber mixed with a binder that includes silica hydraulic cement and water. The mixture is pressed cast molded roll formed extruded or otherwise formed into a green board form and dried. One or both major surfaces of the siding may be profiled or embossed to look like a grained or roughsawn wood or other building product or scalloped or cut to resemble shingles. A variety of styles or shapes are available including lap siding vertical siding soffit panels trim boards shaped edge shingle replicas and stone or stucco replicas in a variety of sizes and thicknesses. Fiber cement siding may be prefinished e.g. primed or painted at the factory where it is made and delivered to a job site ready for installation viz. attachment on a building. The resulting prefinished siding product has a primed or painted appearance immediately upon attachment.

Unfortunately some finishes adhere poorly to fiber cement siding products especially near edges and corners. An applied finish may initially appear to be properly adhered but may later delaminate or otherwise prematurely fail once the product has been stored stacked or transported during product installation or even after the product has been installed. While builders and homeowners desire the beauty and convenience of fiber cement siding premature finish failure can defeat the purpose of manufacturing boards with a preapplied finish.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that what is needed in the art is a pre finished fiber cement siding product with improved coating adhesion and a reduced tendency to exhibit premature finish failure especially near edges and corners. Such siding products and methods for preparing the same are disclosed and claimed herein.

The above described finish adhesion problems may be aggravated for sawn fiber cement products especially if the sawing process has burnished the product. For example some conventional sealers which normally adhere well to the face of a cement board product may exhibit complete or nearly complete coating failure when applied to a burnished region of some cement board products especially at edges and corners proximate the burnished region.

The invention provides in one aspect a method for preparing a coated article which method comprises providing a cement fiberboard substrate having an outer surface treating at least a portion of the outer surface with an aqueous solution comprising at least one phosphorus acid or salt of a phosphorus acid and applying atop at least the treated outer surface one or more of a sealer primer or topcoat.

The invention provides in another aspect a method for preparing a coated article which method comprises providing a cement fiberboard substrate having at least one edge treating one or more such edges with an aqueous solution comprising at least one phosphorus acid or salt of a phosphorus acid and applying atop at least the treated edge s one or more of a sealer primer or topcoat.

The invention provides in another aspect a method for preparing a coated article which method comprises providing a cement fiberboard substrate having an outer surface and treating at least a portion of the outer surface with a sealer primer or topcoat comprising at least one phosphorus acid or salt of a phosphorus acid.

The invention provides in another aspect a method for preparing a coated article which method comprises providing a cement fiberboard substrate having at least one edge treating one or more such edges with one or more of a sealer primer or topcoat comprising at least one phosphorus acid or salt of a phosphorus acid.

The invention provides in another aspect a coated article comprising a cement fiberboard substrate having at least one edge treated with at least one phosphorus acid or salt of a phosphorus acid and coated with one or more of a sealer primer or topcoat or treating one or more such edges with one or more of a sealer primer or topcoat comprising at least one phosphorus acid or salt of a phosphorus acid.

The above summary of the present invention is not intended to describe each disclosed embodiment or every implementation of the present invention. The description that follows exemplifies several illustrative embodiments. In various places throughout the application guidance is provided through lists of examples which examples can be used in various combinations. In each instance the recited list serves only as a representative group and should not be interpreted as an exclusive list.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawing and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawing and from the claims.

Like reference symbols in the various figures of the drawing indicate like elements. The elements in the drawing are not to scale.

The recitation of a numerical range using endpoints includes all numbers subsumed within that range e.g. 1 to 5 includes 1 1.5 2 2.75 3 3.80 4 5 etc. .

The terms a an the at least one and one or more are used interchangeably. Thus for example a coating composition that contains an additive means that the coating composition includes one or more additives.

The burnishing e.g. of the edge can be caused by any abrasive treatment that will cause surface heating such as sawing sanding grinding and the like.

Terms of orientation such as atop on uppermost and the like refer to the relative position of various treatments layers or coatings in the disclosed articles with respect to a horizontal cement fiberboard substrate but do not require that the disclosed articles should have any particular orientation in space during or after their manufacture. A coating atop a cement fiberboard substrate may be adjacent to the substrate or separated from the substrate by one or more intervening treatments layers or coatings. A treatment or coating on a cement fiberboard substrate will unless the context indicates otherwise be adjacent to the substrate.

The term board refers to a generally planar component suitable for attachment to a building exterior surface including lap siding vertical siding soffit panels trim boards shingle replicas stone replicas and stucco replicas.

The term burnish and burnishing refer to making a surface smooth or glossy. Burnishing can be caused by any treatment that leaves the surface with a smooth or glossy appearance such as sawing sanding grinding polishing and the like.

The phrase chalk resistant when used with respect to a coating composition means that if the coating composition is applied to and dried or otherwise hardened on a fiber cement board substrate the coating composition will have a chalk rating not less than 5 viz. a rating of 5 to 10 more preferably not less than 6 viz. a rating of 6 to 10 and most preferably not less than 8 viz. a rating of 8 to 10 when evaluated according to ASTM D 4214 Test Method A using a 5 year vertical exterior exposure in Florida.

The phrase color change resistant when used with respect to a coating composition means that if the coating composition is applied to and dried or otherwise hardened on a fiber cement board substrate the coating composition will change less than 15 Macadam units more preferably will change less than 10 Macadam units and most preferably will change less than 8 Macadam units following a 5 year vertical exterior exposure in Florida.

The term comprises and variations thereof does not have a limiting meaning where such term appears in the description or claims. Thus for example a composition comprising a wax compound means that the composition includes one or more wax compounds.

The phrase crack resistant when used with respect to a coating composition means that if the coating composition is applied to and dried or otherwise hardened on a fiber cement board substrate the coating composition will have a crack rating not less than 5 viz. a rating of 5 to 10 more preferably not less than 6 viz. a rating of 6 to 10 and most preferably not less than 8 viz. a rating of 8 to 10 when evaluated according to ASTM D 661 using a 5 year vertical exterior exposure in Florida.

The phrase flake resistant when used with respect to a coating composition means that if the coating composition is applied to and dried or otherwise hardened on a fiber cement board substrate the coating composition will maintain a flake rating not less than 5 viz. a rating of 5 to 10 more preferably not less than 6 viz. a rating of 6 to 10 and most preferably not less than 8 viz. a rating of 8 to 10 when evaluated according to ASTM 772 using a 5 year vertical exterior exposure in Florida.

The term functionalized when used with respect to a latex polymer means the polymer contains additional pendant reactive chemical moieties other than carboxylic acid groups and linear branched or ring structures containing CH groups where x is 0 1 2 or 3.

The term gloss when used with respect to a coating composition means the 60 measurement obtained when evaluating a smooth region of a fiber cement board major surface according to ASTM D 523.

The term latex when used with respect to a polymer means a dispersion or emulsion of polymer particles in water containing one or more secondary dispersing or emulsifying agents e.g. a surfactant alkali soluble polymer or mixtures thereof whose presence is required to form the dispersion or emulsion. The secondary dispersing or emulsifying agent is typically separate from the polymer after polymer formation. In some embodiments a reactive dispersing or emulsifying agent may become part of the polymer particles as they are formed.

The phrase low VOC when used with respect to a liquid coating composition means that the coating composition contains less than about 10 wt. volatile organic compounds more preferably less than about 7 volatile organic compounds and most preferably less than about 4 volatile organic compounds based upon the total liquid coating composition weight.

The term meth acrylic acid includes either or both of acrylic acid and methacrylic acid and the term meth acrylate includes either or both of an acrylate and a methacrylate.

The term multistage when used with respect to a latex polymer means the polymer was made using discrete charges of two or more monomers or was made using a continuously varied charge of two or more monomers. Usually a multistage latex will not exhibit a single Tg inflection point as measured using DSC. For example a DSC curve for a multistage latex made using discrete charges of two or more monomers may exhibit two or more Tg inflection points. Also a DSC curve for a multistage latex made using a continuously varied charge of two or more monomers may exhibit no Tg inflection points. By way of further explanation a DSC curve for a single stage latex made using a single monomer charge or a non varying charge of two monomers may exhibit only a single Tg inflection point. Occasionally when only one Tg inflection point is observed it may be difficult to determine whether the latex represents a multistage latex. In such cases a lower Tg inflection point may sometimes be detected on closer inspection or the synthetic scheme used to make the latex may be examined to determine whether or not a multistage latex would be expected to be produced.

The terms preferred and preferably refer to embodiments of the invention that may afford certain benefits under certain circumstances. However other embodiments may also be preferred under the same or other circumstances. Furthermore the recitation of one or more preferred embodiments does not imply that other embodiments are not useful and is not intended to exclude other embodiments from the scope of the invention.

The coating systems described herein may be used in place of or in addition to coatings that may previously have been characterized as sealers primers or topcoats. However the disclosed coating systems may not fit neatly into any category per se and such terms should not be limiting. With that caveat in mind the term sealer refers to a composition which may be applied on a bare viz. uncoated cement fiberboard substrate and dried or otherwise hardened to provide a coated surface having reduced porosity the term primer refers to a composition which may be applied atop a cement fiberboard substrate and dried or otherwise hardened to provide a coated surface having improved ability to retain a subsequently applied dried or hardened topcoat and the term topcoat refers to a composition which when dried or otherwise hardened provides a decorative or protective outermost finish layer atop a fiber cement board which is or will be attached to a building exterior. By way of further explanation such topcoats include paints stains or sealers capable of withstanding extended outdoor exposure e.g. exposure equivalent to one year of vertical south facing Florida sunlight without visually objectionable deterioration but do not include sealers or primers that would not withstand extended outdoor exposure if left uncoated with a topcoat.

The terms treating and treated refer to the application of an acid or salt solution to an edge or surface of a cement fiberboard substrate such that after the solution has dried a locally elevated concentration of the acid salt or reaction byproduct thereof with the cement fiberboard substrate may be detected at the treated edge or surface. The thus treated edge or surface may accordingly be distinguished from a cement fiberboard substrate that may contain nominal amounts of an acid or salt distributed evenly throughout the fiberboard binder and from a cement fiberboard substrate bearing a coating that may contain nominal amounts of an acid or salt distributed evenly throughout the coating.

The term unattached when used with respect to a board means that the board has not been fastened e.g. nailed screwed or glued to a building.

The term water dispersible when used with respect to a polymer means a polymer which is capable of being combined by itself with water without requiring the use of a secondary dispersing or emulsifying agent to obtain an aqueous dispersion or emulsion of polymer particles having at least a one month shelf stability at normal storage temperatures.

The phase weather resistant when used with respect to a coating composition means that the coating composition is at least one or more of and more preferably at least two or more of yet more preferably at least three or more of and most preferably all of chalk resistant color change resistant crack resistant or flake resistant when exposed outdoors.

Referring to a coated article of the present invention is shown in schematic cross sectional view. Article includes a cement fiberboard substrate . The first major surface of substrate may be embossed with small peaks or ridges and valleys e.g. so as to resemble roughsawn wood. Major surface may have a variety of other surface configurations and may resemble a variety of building materials other than roughsawn wood. A sealer layer or layers of the disclosed coating system lies atop and partially penetrates surface and desirably is applied to article at the location where article is manufactured. Sealer provides a firmly adhered base layer upon which one or more layers of topcoat may be formed and helps to reduce the amount of topcoat that might otherwise be absorbed into substrate . Topcoat desirably is both decorative and weather resistant and may be applied to article at the location where article is manufactured or after article has been attached to a building or other surface. Article also includes at least one edge such as edge between first major surface and a side surface of article such as side surface . It will be understood by persons having ordinary skill in the art that edge may have a sharp or somewhat rounded configuration but will in any event represent a transition region of relatively high curvature between major surface and side surface . Persons having ordinary skill in the art will understand that article may have elongated and generally parallel side surfaces intersected by shorter end surfaces and that these side and end surfaces may be largely hidden when article is installed e.g. on a building. Persons having ordinary skill in the art will also understand that article may have fewer or other layers than are shown in and that in the interest of brevity these and other variations need not be separately shown in the Drawing. For example in one exemplary embodiment the substrate is coated with a sealer layer and one or more topcoat layers. In another exemplary embodiment the substrate is coated with a primer layer and one or more topcoat layers. In yet another exemplary embodiment the substrate is coated with a sealer layer a primer layer and one or more topcoat layers. In yet another embodiment the substrate is coated with a single layer of sealer primer or topcoat. Preferably the various layers are selected to provide a coating system that has good adhesion to the substrate and between adjacent layers of the system.

It can be difficult to obtain adequate adhesion of coatings such as sealer or topcoat to edge or to corners not shown in where two edges such as edge meet. This difficulty can be aggravated when applying coatings to sawn fiber cement products especially if the sawing process has burnished the product. The disclosed process can appreciably improve coating adhesion at such burnished regions and at edges and corners proximate the burnished regions. In another embodiment the disclosed process can also improve coating adhesion on the major surface or sides of a cement fiberboard substrate. In the disclosed process at least one edge such as edge and desirably all such edges any corners where such edges meet and yet more desirably the sides and one or both major faces of the cement fiberboard substrate such as substrate is or are treated with an aqueous solution containing a phosphorus acid a salt of a phosphorus acid or mixture thereof. The applied solution preferably is at least partially dried and more preferably is dried sufficiently so that substrate no longer has a wet appearance. One or more of a sealer primer or topcoat is applied atop at least the treated region and desirably atop the sides and one or both major faces of substrate . The treatment may conveniently be applied to substrate at the location where article is manufactured or may be applied after article has been attached to a building or other surface. When applied at a manufacturing location the treatment may also be applied before or after or both before and after the article is subjected to drying e.g. oven drying to remove water from the binder. Normally it will be most convenient to apply the treatment after a board has been formed and before it is dried to remove water from the binder as the drying step will also remove water from the treatment solution. The treatment may be applied using any convenient method including brushing e.g. using a brush coater direct roll coating reverse roll coating flood coating vacuum coating curtain coating and spraying. The various techniques each offer a unique set of advantages and disadvantages depending upon the substrate profile morphology and tolerable application efficiencies. The treatment may be applied only to burnished regions and at least one edge proximate the burnished region e.g. over the burnished region and about 100 50 or 25 mm beyond that region past an edge and into an unburnished area to all edges sides and ends of the substrate or to all edges sides and ends and to at least one and if desired both major face s of the substrate. The concentration of acid or salt in the treatment solution may vary depending on the chosen acid or salt and may be determined or adjusted empirically using the tape adhesion test described below. There may be an optimal concentration range below and above which reduced topcoat adhesion may be observed. For example concentrations of about 1 to about 86 about 2 to about 75 about 5 to about 60 about 8 to about 40 or about 10 to about 30 wt. acid or salt in water may be employed based on the total weight of the solution. In one embodiment the amount of acid or salt in the treatment solution is from about 1 to about 30 weight based on the total weight of the solution.

A variety of cement fiberboard substrates may be employed in the present invention. Such substrates will usually include a composite of fibers e.g. wood pulp glass or polymeric fibers and a binder that includes water silica and hydraulic cement e.g. Portland cement . The substrates can be made using methods such as extrusion the Hatschek method or other methods known in the art. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 219 467 3 781 396 6 030 447 6 346 146 6 506 248 6 635 735 6 893 751 and 6 941 720 U.S. Patent Application Nos. 2005 0208285 A1 and 2006 0288909 A1 Australian Patent Application Nos. 198060655 A1 and 2005100347 and International Patent Application Nos. WO 98 45222 A1 and WO 01 68547 A1. The uncoated substrate surface typically contains a plurality of pores with micron or submicron scale cross sectional dimensions. A variety of suitable fiber cement substrates are commercially available. For example several preferred fiber cement siding products are available from James Hardie Building Products Inc. of Mission Viejo Calif. including those sold as HARDIEHOME siding HARDIPANEL vertical siding HARDIPLANK lap siding HARDIESOFFIT panels HARDITRIM planks and HARDISHINGLE siding. These products are available with an extended warranty and are said to resist moisture damage to require only low maintenance to not crack rot or delaminate to resist damage from extended exposure to humidity rain snow salt air and termites to be non combustible and to offer the warmth of wood and the durability of fiber cement. Other suitable fiber cement siding substrates include AQUAPANEL cement board products from Knauf USG Systems GmbH Co. KG of Iserlohn Germany CEMPLANK CEMPANEL and CEMTRIM cement board products from Cemplank of Mission Viejo Calif. WEATHERBOARDS cement board products from CertainTeed Corporation of Valley Forge Pa. MAXITLE MAXISHAKE AND MAXISLATE cement board products from MaxiTile Inc. of Carson Calif. BRESTONE CINDERSTONE LEDGESTONE NEWPORT BRICK SIERRA PREMIUM and VINTAGE BRICK cement board products from Nichiha U.S.A. Inc. of Norcross Ga. EVERNICE cement board products from Zhangjiagang Evernice Building Materials Co. Ltd. of China and E BOARD cement board products from Everest Industries Ltd. of India.

A variety of phosphorus acids and salts of phosphorus acids may be employed in the present invention. Representative phosphorus acids include phosphoric acid HPO CAS RN 7664 38 2 phosphonic acid HPO CAS RN 13598 36 2 phosphinic acid HPO CAS RN 6303 21 5 and hypophosphoric acid HPO CAS RN 7803 60 3 . Representative phosphorus acid salts include ammonium dihydrogen phosphate NHHPO CAS RN 7722 76 1 diammonium hydrogen phosphate NH HPO CAS RN 7783 28 0 calcium dihydrogen phosphate Ca HPO CAS RN 7758 23 8 calcium monohydrogen phosphate dihydrate CaHPO.2HO CAS RN 7789 77 7 calcium phosphate tribasic Ca PO .HO CAS RN 7758 87 4 ferric phosphate FePO CAS RN 10045 86 0 lithium orthophosphate LiPO CAS RN 10377 52 3 magnesium ammonium phosphate hydrate NH MgPO CAS RN 7785 21 9 magnesium hydrogen phosphate trihydrate MgHPO.3HO CAS RN 7757 86 0 potassium dihydrogen phosphate KHPO CAS RN 7778 77 0 dipotassium hydrogen phosphate KHPO CAS RN 7758 11 4 dipotassium hydrogen phosphate trihydrate KHPO.3HO CAS RN 16788 57 1 potassium orthophosphate KPO CAS RN 7778 53 2 potassium diphosphate KPO CAS RN 7320 34 5 sodium dihydrogen phosphate NaHPO CAS RN 7558 80 7 sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate NaHPO.HO CAS RN 10049 21 5 disodium hydrogen phosphate NaHPO CAS RN 7558 79 4 disodium phosphate dibasic dodecahydrate NaHPO.12HO CAS RN 10039 32 4 disodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate NaHPO.7HO CAS RN 7782 85 6 trisodium phosphate NaPO CAS RN 7601 54 9 sodium phosphate tribasic dodecahydrate NaPO.12HO CAS RN 10101 89 0 sodium metaphosphate NaPO CAS RN 10361 03 2 disodium pytophosphate NaHPO CAS RN 7758 16 9 tetrasodium pyrophosphate NaOP CAS RN 7722 88 5 sodium trimetaphosphate NaPO CAS RN 7785 84 4 sodium tripolyphosphate NaOP CAS RN 13573 18 7 hexasodium tetraphosphate NaOP CAS RN 14986 84 6 and sodium polymetaphosphate CAS RN 50813 16 6 . Mixtures of acids salts or salts and acids may be employed. Acids and salts having appreciable water solubility e.g. at least 5 wt. at least 10 wt. at least 20 wt. at least 50 wt. or complete water miscibility are preferred as are acids and salts having low toxicity and low or moderate tendency to irritate the skin.

A variety of sealers may be employed in the present invention. Representative sealers typically will be aqueous compositions and include acrylic latex materials for example unpigmented or low pigment level latex solutions containing between about 2 and 50 wt. solids and water dispersible materials for example unpigmented or low pigment level water dispersible polyurethane solutions containing between about 2 and 50 wt. solids . The sealer may for example provide one or more features such as improved adhesion efflorescence blocking water resistance or block resistance. An example of a commercially available sealer is OLYMPIC FC sealer available from PPG . Other sealers include those described in U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 60 737 442 filed Nov. 15 2005 60 764 044 60 764 103 60 764 131 and 60 764 242 each of which was filed Jan. 31 2006 60 802 185 and 60 802 186 both filed May 19 2006 60 810 739 filed Jun. 2 2006 and 60 819 505 filed Jul. 7 2006 those described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 560 329 filed Nov. 15 2006 and published as U.S. 2007 0110981 A1 Ser. No. 11 669 131 filed Jan. 30 2007 and published as U.S. 2007 0259166 A1 Ser. No. 11 669 134 filed Jan. 30 2007 and published as U.S. 2007 0259188 A1 Ser. No. 11 751 459 filed May 21 2007 and published as U.S. 2007 0269660 A1 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 133 588 Ser. No. 11 757 916 filed Jun. 4 2007 and published as U.S. 2007 0282046 A1 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 834 086 and Ser. No. 11 775 080 filed Jul. 7 2007 and published as U.S. 2008 0008895 A1 and those described in PCT Application Nos. PCT US06 60943 filed Nov. 15 2006 and published as WO 2007 059516 also PCT US07 02587 published as WO 2007 089807 PCT US07 61326 published as WO 2007 090131 PCT US07 61327 published as WO 2007 090132 and PCT US2007 002802 published as WO 2007 089913 each of which was filed Jan. 30 2007 . The sealer also preferably contains an adhesion enhancing amount of a phosphorus acid or salt of a phosphorus acid with salts of phosphorus acids being preferred and sodium or ammonium salts of phosphorus acids being especially preferred. For example concentrations of about 0.1 to about 20 about 0.2 to about 15 about 0.3 to about 10 wt. acid or salt may be employed based on the total sealer weight. Addition of such an acid or salt to the sealer may provide a substantial improvement in topcoat adhesion. A recommended thickness for the sealer after it is dried or otherwise hardened is about 0.001 to about 0.3 mm.

A variety of primers may be employed in the present invention. Representative primers include acrylic latex or vinyl primers. The primer may include color pigments if desired. Preferred primers have a measured 60 gloss value less than 15 gloss units more preferably less than 10 gloss units and most preferably less than 5 gloss units and a pigment volume concentration PVC of at least 5 . Preferred primers also provide blocking resistance. A recommended thickness for the primer after it is dried or otherwise hardened is about 2 to 50 micrometers and more preferably about 5 to about 30 micrometers.

A variety of final topcoat compositions may be employed in the present invention. Representative topcoats are described in the above mentioned U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 60 737 442 60 764 044 60 764 103 60 764 131 60 764 242 60 802 185 60 802 186 60 810 739 and 60 819 505 in the above mentioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 560 329 published as U.S. 2007 0110981 A1 Ser. No. 11 669 131 published as U.S. 2007 0259166 A1 Ser. No. 11 669 134 published as U.S. 2007 0259188 A1 Ser. No. 11 751 459 published as U.S. 2007 0269660 A1 Ser. No. 11 757 916 published as U.S. 2007 0282046 and Ser. No. 11 775 080 published as U.S. 2008 0008895 A1 and those described in the above mentioned PCT Application Nos. PCT US06 60943 published as WO 2007 059516 and PCT US07 02587 published as WO 2007 089807 PCT US07 61326 published as WO 2007 090131 PCT US07 61327 published as WO 2007 090132 and PCT US2007 002802 published as WO 2007 089913. The topcoat preferably includes a multistage latex polymer as described in the above mentioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 560 329 and PCT Application No. PCT US06 60943. The topcoat typically will include a carrier e.g. water or one or more organic solvents may include other ingredients such as color pigments if desired and in some embodiments could be characterized as a paint. Preferred final topcoat compositions have a measured 60 gloss value greater than 1 gloss unit and more preferably between 5 and 30 gloss units.

A Wet Adhesion Test may be carried out as follows to evaluate adhesion of the coating system after a coated cement fiberboard substrate has been saturated with water. According to this test procedure coated substrates e.g. fiber cement boards are soaked in room temperature water for at least 24 hours. After soaking the boards are removed from the water and dried at room temperature for about 3 hours. A six inch 15.24 cm length of 3M HD 250 tape is applied to the surface of the board with the long axis of the tape in the direction of any embossing patterns that may be present. The tape is firmly pressed onto the board ensuring full contact. The tape is then removed by quickly pulling it off at a 90 degree angle to the board. Wet Adhesion performance is rated based on the percent of coating removed from the cement board. Performance is further assessed by noting where any failure occurs. For example failure may occur between interfacial coating layers between the coating and the surface of the board or within the board itself. Preferred coating systems or coating compositions typically have less than 25 coating removal preferably less than 15 coating removal more preferably less than 10 coating removal and yet more preferably less than 5 coating removal. In addition the failure preferably is within the board as indicated by a significant amount of fiber from the board adhering to the removed coating.

For use in extreme climates the disclosed coated articles preferably will withstand at least 30 freeze thaw cycles when tested according to ASTM D6944 03 Test Method A. As written this ASTM test method recites a 30 cycle sequence. However rather than simply grade a specimen as a pass at the end of 30 cycles the test desirably is lengthened to include additional cycles. More preferably the coated articles can withstand at least 75 freeze thaw cycles most preferably at least 125 freeze thaw cycles and optimally at least 175 freeze thaw cycles.

The disclosed coating systems or coating compositions preferably have improved viz. lower volatile organic content VOC . The coating systems or coating compositions desirably have a VOC of less than about 5 based on the total weight of the coating system preferably a VOC of less than about 2 more preferably a VOC of less than about 0.5 .

Other optional components for use in the coating systems herein are described in Koleske et al. Paint and Coatings Industry April 2003 pages 12 86. Typical performance enhancing additives that may be employed include surface active agents pigments colorants dyes surfactants dispersants defoamers thickeners initiators e.g. photoinitiators heat stabilizers leveling agents coalescents biocides mildewcides anti cratering agents curing indicators plasticizers fillers sedimentation inhibitors ultraviolet light absorbers optical brighteners and the like to modify properties.

The coating systems may also contain an optional coalescent and many coalescents are known in the art. The optional coalescent is preferably a low VOC coalescent such as is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 762 230.

The coating systems may be applied by any number of application techniques including but not limited to brushing e.g. using a brush coater direct roll coating reverse roll coating flood coating vacuum coating curtain coating and spraying. The various techniques each offer a unique set of advantages and disadvantages depending upon the substrate profile morphology and tolerable application efficiencies. Lower viscosities facilitate uniform film control. The applied film thickness may be controlled for example by varying the application rate. The disclosed coating systems may for example be applied to a cement fiberboard substrate by roll coating. An overall dry film thickness DFT of the coating system on the cement fiberboard substrate may for example be in the range of but not limited to about 0.04 to about 12 mil about 0.001 to about 0.3 mm about 0.08 to about 8 mil about 0.002 to about 0.2 mm more preferably about 0.16 to about 4 mil about 0.004 to about 0.1 mm .

The invention will be described by the following non limiting example in which all parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise indicated.

A multistage latex polymer may be prepared from a first monomer mixture containing methyl methacrylate butyl acrylate dodecylmercaptan and 3 mercaptopropionic acid and a second monomer mixture containing methyl methacrylate butyl acrylate 2 acetoacetoxyethylmethacrylate styrene and hydroxyethyl acrylate. The polymer will exhibit two distinct Tg values namely a hard stage Tg believed to be at about 100 110 C. and a soft stage Tg believed to be at about 0 10 C. and the latex may contain about 39 solids. The resulting latex may be used as is as a sealer for cement fiberboard substrates. However if applied directly to the substrate poor adhesion may be observed near burnished regions and especially near edges proximate the burnished regions. This may be demonstrated using HARDITRIM trim pieces from James Hardie Building Products Inc. of Mission Viejo Calif. which have been cut with a saw and exhibit a burnished appearance. In a control run the sealer may be applied directly to the trim piece dried then overcoated with a topcoat e.g. a multistage latex topcoat like that described in Example 10 of the above mentioned published U.S. Patent Application No. 2007 0110981 A1 . In additional runs the trim piece may be treated before application of the sealer using various aqueous solutions of phosphoric acid HPO ammonium dihydrogen phosphate NHHPO or sodium dihydrogen phosphate NaHPO . The thus treated trim pieces may then be sealed with the above described sealer or with a sealer modified by the addition of a 30 NHHPOor NaHPOsolution dried and overcoated with the multistage latex topcoat used for the control trim piece. When evaluated using the above described Wet Adhesion Test the major face of the control trim piece may exhibit only about 0 to 1 adhesion loss. However the burnished portions of the control trim piece may exhibit about 65 adhesion loss. The other pretreated coated trim pieces may exhibit finish adhesion losses at the burnished portions as shown below in Tables 1 and 2. In samples having ammonium dihydrogen phosphate or sodium dihydrogen phosphate added to the sealer the Tables also include a corresponding salt amount based on latex solids. Run Nos. 1 10 and 1 11 employ trim pieces with a greater degree of burnishing than in the other trim pieces.

All patents patent applications and literature cited in the specification are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. In the case of any inconsistencies the present disclosure including any definitions therein will prevail. The invention has been described with reference to various specific and preferred embodiments and techniques. However it should be understood that many variations and modifications may be made while remaining within the invention.

