---

title: Prioritizing client engagements at accounting practices
abstract: Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to software for prioritizing client engagements at accounting practices. The disclosure describes various data inputs, a business objectives preference module, an optimization engine, user schedule(s), and, in an embodiment, a database or data warehouse. The optimization engine receives requests for new clients, requests for new projects for existing clients, or the like, receives business objectives, receives a current client engagement schedule and receives various additional input data, preferences, or user settings. The engine outputs an updated client engagement schedule, including, for example, whether undertaking the new client or project is advisable based on some or all of the input data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08255257&OS=08255257&RS=08255257
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 08255257
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080430
---
Accountants perform service engagements for clients throughout the year. Determining when to perform the service engagements can be a challenge. Tax season for example is a significant revenue generation opportunity for most public accounting practices. It is also a period of steep challenges including balancing clients priorities revenue expectations minimization of audit risks and a wide range of other factors that may significantly impact future and current business. Accountants often find it difficult to strike the right balance between work clients and deadlines.

Many accountants serve clients on a first come first served basis. Others may prioritize based on revenue potential per client. Choosing to prioritize client engagements in this fashion can result in accountants missing deadlines taking unnecessary extensions on filings and perhaps can contribute to an increased turnover or at least increased dissatisfaction among clients.

The complexities faced by accountants in scheduling their client engagements depend on a number of factors. Clients may submit their accounting information in random sequence and with varying degrees of completeness. Accountants may not be able to accurately predict how long each client engagement is likely to take and whether or not a particular tax return for example will be completed before the filing deadlines. Engagements completed without attention to detail could result in audits by the IRS a loss of clientele or increasing malpractice insurance rates. Other systematic factors such as the economy changes in technology regulations by IRS and new tax laws can all impact the scheduling of client engagements. These factors can contribute to the difficulty in scheduling client engagements. Moreover all the foregoing factors are exacerbated when scaled from individual accounting practices to accounting businesses potentially employing many accountants.

The present disclosure describes systems and methods for managing accounting engagement scheduling. The systems and methods described herein can allow accountants or accounting firms or businesses to be better informed and to make better decisions when scheduling their engagement assignments. In an embodiment the systems and methods implement an optimization engine that accounts for various business objectives preferences and uses this data to generate a work plan for the outcome that the firm desires.

The input data for the optimization engine can include for example client information estimated values systematic values and subjective parameters. This input data can represent various factors that influence scheduling decisions. The client information can include client type such as for example individual or business business type industry classification non profit status or other suitable client information. The client information can also include a client profile such as for example aggregate gross income revenues income number of employees or other suitable profile information. The estimated values can include for example the value of the client time for engagement preparation number of schedules required or other suitable estimated values. The systematic values can include for example the state of the economy the number of tax regulations the likelihood of audit or other suitable values. The subjective parameters can include values that might not be easily measured but can be subjectively known by the user such as for example the organization responsiveness and or communication level of the client or other suitable subjective information. This input data provides information that when combined with other features disclosed herein can allow for prioritization of client engagements at accounting practices.

The foregoing and other objective parameters allow a user such as an accounting firm to specify how the optimization engine should weigh what may be conflicting scheduling concerns faced by an accounting practice. The preference parameters can include for example factors such as maximization of cash flow minimization of audit risk maximization of customer satisfaction minimization of lead time for engagements minimizing refund duration minimizing the number of extensions or other suitable factors. The optimization engine interprets these user preferences to generate an optimized client engagement schedule.

In an embodiment the optimization engine accesses a database or data warehouse. The database can update the optimization engine for example the optimization engine may advantageously update its process algorithms variables constants functions or the like based on information gained by executing against data in the database. Also results provided by the database may update any of the foregoing parameters. Moreover the optimization engine can also update the database. Through this bi directional communication the optimization engine can provide enhanced results for example by refining the optimization engine based on data accumulated from a number of accountants or accounting practices.

These and other features will now be described with reference to the drawings summarized below. These drawings and the associated description are provided to illustrate an embodiment of the disclosure and not to limit the scope of the disclosure.

Accountants receive requests to perform new engagements from existing and potential clients. Client engagements can include activities such as for example tax preparation audits client consulting forensic accounting financial advising and other suitable activities. After receiving a request the accountant then decides whether to accept the engagement and then if the work is accepted when to perform the work. The decision about whether to accept and then when to perform the work can depend on a number of factors such as for example the deadline for completion the complexity of the work the client s profile the accountant s familiarity with the work the accountant s business objectives and other suitable factors. Systems and methods for prioritizing client engagements can help accountants make these decisions.

The accounting tax software can include the software the accountant uses for example to manage the finances for the accounting practice to manage the taxes for the accounting practice to prepare engagements for his or her clients or for other suitable accounting auditing or tax purposes now known or later developed. Accounting tax software can include applications such as for example Quickbooks Lacerte ProSeries TurboTax all commercially available from Intuit Inc of Menlo Park Calif. or other suitable applications now known or later developed. In an embodiment the accountant uses accounting tax software to manage the finances for the accounting practice. In an embodiment the accounting tax software include QuickBooks . In an embodiment the accounting tax software include Lacerte . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize from the present disclosure that any number of accounting tax can be used by an accountant . The accountant can for example install several different accounting tax software applications.

The accounting tax software can exchange data through an interface agent . The interface agent can provide communication with resources that might not be available on the accountant s computer or available within a particular application on the computer. The interface agent can communicate with other accountants clients potential clients or the data warehouse for example by exchanging information using a network. illustrates an embodiment where the interface agent communicates over the Internet . The interface agent can be one or more software services or products. There can be one or more interface agents for each accounting tax software application installed or a single interface agent for the system. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize from the present disclosure that the interface agent is not limited by the number of accounting tax software applications installed on a computer or group of computers. In an embodiment the interface agent provides communication with the data warehouse for the accounting tax software .

Each accountant can also have a client projects queue . In an embodiment the client projects queue include a list of the engagements that the accountant is to perform. The client projects queue can have information including when the particular engagement will be performed the particulars of the project or the like. In an embodiment other accountants share a common projects queue . In an embodiment the other accountants each have individual project queues . As used in the projects queue can also include one or more client projects schedules. Additional information about the client projects queue is described below.

The workflow optimization engine can interact with the accounting tax software the interface agent and the client projects queue to help optimize engagements at accounting practices. In the embodiment the optimization engine interacts with the projects queue of the accountant or of project queues of 2 or more of the accountants . In an embodiment the optimization engine comprises a prioritization engine. The workflow optimization is described in detail below.

Clients or potential clients can exchange information that can be used with the system through other means such as for example telephone calls email mail meetings faxes or other suitable communication now known or later developed. Users of the system can add this information for example through client profiles as described below. This data or information can be used to help the accountant make more informed decisions about for example whether to accept additional engagements and when to schedule the work.

The system can also integrate with clients and potential clients . The clients and potential clients can operate their own accounting and or tax software. This software can include applications such as for example Quickbooks Lacerte Quicken TurboTax or other suitable applications now known or later developed. The system can exchange information with these applications for example to help the accountant more efficiently prepare engagements to help the accountant determine the complexity of an engagement to update client information or profiles to provide information to the data warehouse to report results of the engagement back to the clients or potential clients or for other suitable information exchange purposes now known or later developed. In an embodiment a client operates accounting or tax software that communicates with the interface agent . In an embodiment a client operates accounting or tax software that communicates with the data warehouse . In an embodiment a client operates a computer with an interface agent that synchronizes with the data warehouse .

The interface agent and workflow optimization engine can also communicate with other accountants . For example in an accounting practice with multiple accountants the decision to perform a new engagement can depend on the client projects queue for the accountant the other accountants or both. The other accountants for example may have sufficient capacity or desire to perform additional agreements even when the accountant does not. By allowing the workflow optimization engine to communicate with one or more accountants the system can also service larger accounting practices.

The data warehouse can both provide information to and receive information from the system. The data warehouse for example can store data that allows for the calculation of correlations between client and tax profiles that allows updates to the system. The data warehouse may advantageously store logs of client activity accomplished through the clients accounting auditing tax or other software. The data warehouse can receive updates from a plurality of systems. As the data warehouse receives these updates it can perform data analysis that allows for enhanced system performance. In an embodiment the data warehouse performs statistical analysis on previously completed engagements. The results of this data analysis can in turn result in updates to the system. In an embodiment the data warehouse computes correlations between client profiles and engagement profiles. In an embodiment the data warehouse updates the workflow optimization engine . In an embodiment the data warehouse is continually updated to reflect the results of previously scheduled engagements. In an embodiment the data warehouse is synchronized to the system.

The workflow optimization engine for example can request data from the data warehouse to help determine correlations between data inputs and desired business objectives as described below. The data warehouse can provide software updates to the system. The data warehouse can also update the interface agent or optimization engine . Additional details about the client projects queue and workflow optimization engine are described below.

In an embodiment the workflow optimization engine computes an updated client projects queue and projects schedule . For example in an embodiment the accountant has an existing client projects queue and projects schedule . The engagements within the client projects queue are assigned to specific dates within the projects schedule or vice versa. An accountant involved with the preparation of tax engagements might have a large number of engagements to prepare as a tax deadline approaches. illustrates a situation where the tax engagements are due in mid April although any relevant tax dates or other suitable dates are appropriate. As show in the engagements in the client projects queue are placed on the projects schedule throughout the month of March and the first half of April. The workflow optimization engine can use this information as an input while the accountant can use this information as a guide to daily projects for completion or the like.

In an embodiment the accountant may be asked to perform a new engagement such as for example a new client or new project for existing client. The optimization engine can analyze the client projects queue the projects schedule along with its other inputs to provide a recommendation to the accountant or whether to take on the new engagement. If the accountant agrees to perform the new engagement the workflow optimization engine can update the client projects queue and the projects schedule to determine when the accountant should perform the engagement. Also the engine may advantageously include a direct assign that allows a user to in the short or long term override the assignment of dates by the optimization engine and allows the user to place the new engagement or other engagements in specific areas of the schedule . Additional information about the data inputs and the workflow optimization engine follows below.

Further the rules engine may generate project schedules and manage engagement in takes across many or at least 2 or more personnel who are to perform tasks from their individual schedules. For example the rules engine may advantageously accept business objectives for an entire accounting firm and output project schedules for each member or group of members in the firm. Moreover an artisan will recognize from the disclosure herein other inputs outputs and interactions all within the scope of the present disclosure.

The profile can include additional information about the client. Further detail about the profile can be found in and the associated description. The subjective factors can provide additional information about the client. Further detail about the subjective factors can also be found in and the associated description. The filing deadline can include information about when the engagement needs to be finished. In an embodiment the filing deadline includes the date of completion of some portion such as for example quarterly estimated taxes or completion of the entire engagement. In an embodiment the filing deadline includes information about whether the deadline can be extended. Although disclosed with reference to the items shown in an artisan will recognize from the disclosure therein other suitable client information useful for creating optimizations with the rules engine .

The value of the client can be an estimate of the client s value such as the adjusted gross income net worth aggregate gross income revenues income net profit number of employees number of actual or predicted engagements actual or predicted amount of business with the user or other suitable estimates. The value of the client can also include for example how quickly the client pays bills following completion of an engagement. In an embodiment the value of the client includes the adjusted gross income. In an embodiment the value of the client includes the aggregate gross income. Other indicators of the value of the client can include whether the client generates other business for the accountant. For example an executive might be a client with an increased value of client based upon the influence she exerts over her own or other businesses.

The time required can include an estimate of how long the accountant will need to prepare the engagement. In an embodiment the time required includes an estimate of how long the accountant will need to prepare the engagement. The number of forms documents schedules can include an estimate of the quality and quantity of the forms documents and schedules necessary to perform the engagement. For example the number of forms alone might not give an accurate picture of the estimated difficulty of the engagement. The length and complexity of the forms are other considerations that can be estimated and used by the optimization engine. If however the length and complexity are relatively similar the quantity of forms documents and schedules might provide useful information to the optimization engine. In an embodiment the number of forms documents schedules includes the quantity of forms documents or schedules necessary to complete the engagement. In an embodiment the number of forms documents schedules includes a qualitative indication of their complexity.

In an embodiment the number of contacts includes the number of people the accountant will need to contact to perform the engagement. For example in some situations a client that requires a large number of contacts can be less efficient than a client with fewer contacts. There can be however other situations where a large number of contacts might be more efficient. The optimization engine can examine the number of contacts in addition to its other inputs and outputs to help prioritize client engagements.

The subjective values can allow an accountant to specify to the optimization engine how certain subjective information might influence the client engagement. The subjective values can include data such as for example organization responsiveness communication behavioral factors and other suitable subjective information. In an embodiment the subjective values have a nominal value that can be increased or decreased. The organization can include an accountant s impression of the level of organization of the client. The organization can change from engagement to engagement. The organization can also change once the accountant has a better understanding of the client s engagement. For example the client might appear to be very organized but the accountant might later determine that while the information presented was well organized the client left out a great deal of information necessary to complete the engagement. The accountant might then update the organization estimated value.

The responsiveness can indicate for example how quickly or how thoroughly the client responds to inquiries from the accountant. For example a client that responds quickly might result in more efficient engagement preparation. A client that responds slowly might be of benefit when the accountant is too busy to quickly respond to the client. By using this estimated value the optimization engine can prioritize client engagements in a manner that leads to increased customer satisfaction by matching for example accountant workload with client reponsiveness . In an embodiment the responsiveness indicates how quickly the client responds to the accountant. Other behavior factors can also be used by the optimization engine.

The subjective value for communication can indicate for example how well the client communicates with the client. Examples of the subjective value for communication include values such as for example how well the client conveys information the preferred manner of communication the frequency of communication and other suitable values. In an embodiment the subjective value for communication indicates a qualitative evaluation of client s communication. In an embodiment the accountant updates the subjective values and the rules engine updates the prioritization of the client engagements.

In addition to the client information and client profile the rules engine can use systematic or systemic values as an input. illustrates exemplary types of systemic values usable by the optimization engine for prioritizing client engagements. The systemic values can include information such as for example state of the economy number of tax regulations likelihood of audit and other suitable values now known or later discovered. In an embodiment the user updates the systemic values . In an embodiment the data warehouse updates the systemic values . In an embodiment the systemic values are updated and the optimization engine computes a new prioritization for the client engagements.

The accountant can also specify business objectives to influence the prioritization computed by the optimization engine. illustrates exemplary types of business objectives parameters usable by the optimization engine of for prioritizing client engagements. The business objectives can include desired business goals such as for example maximizing cash flow minimizing audit risk maximizing customer satisfaction minimizing total lead time for engagements minimizing time to refund minimizing number of extensions or other suitable goals. These business objectives need not necessarily be mutually exclusive with one another. For example an accountant may want to both maximize cash flow and minimize audit risk . In an embodiment the accountant can specify relative levels of each business objective.

The system can also compare the business objectives with the engagement outcomes. In an embodiment the system compares entered business objectives with engagement outcomes and updates a data warehouse. In an embodiment the system receives updates from the data warehouse that refine correlations between specified business objectives and engagement outcomes. In an embodiment the user updates the business objectives and the optimization engine computes an updated prioritization for client engagements.

Although disclosed with reference to various parameters and parameter groupings an artisan will recognize from the disclosure herein that the parameters can be organized differently could include more or less parameters could include default settings or sets of default setting dependent upon one or more subsets of parameters designation e.g. designating client type may advantageously generate one set of defaults different from another file type could each include graphical adjustment interfaces such as those disclosed with reference to or other suitable alternative or combinations.

In an embodiment the workflow optimization engine computes prioritization for client engagements. The optimization engine can for example update prioritization information send and receive information to a data warehouse optimize an accountant s workflow or perform other suitable tasks.

Process also includes Block computing the optimized workflow. The workflow optimization engine can compute an optimized workflow based upon the inputs and outputs described herein. The engine can analyze the inputs and outputs to re prioritize client engagements. In an embodiment the workflow optimization engine computes an optimized workflow based upon inputs and outputs . The computation is further disclosed with reference to .

In Block process updates the client projects queue. Block can include updating the list of clients shown as the client projects queue in updating the client schedule or the other outputs shown in . In an embodiment Block informs the user that the engagement does or does not fit within the specified business objectives. In an embodiment Block updates the client queue to schedule the engagement. Block can update a single projects queue for an individual a single projects queue for multiple users or multiple projects queues.

The workflow optimization engine can also update the data warehouse based upon completed engagement information. illustrates an exemplary flowchart of a process for updating the data warehouse based on a completed engagement according to an embodiment of . Process includes block notification of a completed engagement. Block can be a user generated event or an automatic system notification. In an embodiment a user input indicates a completed engagement Block . In an embodiment the accounting tax software indicates a completed engagement Block .

Process also includes Block where the actual outcome is compared to the engine projected outcome. Block can allow the optimization engine to make more accurate estimations through refining the correlation between projected and actual outcomes. This information can be shared with other optimization engines such as for example through the ware house so that similar patterns of inputs and outputs can result in improved optimization engine computations.

In Block process updates the data warehouse . The update can include data such as for example the projected outcome the actual outcome the inputs the outputs or other suitable data. The data warehouse can then analyze the data it collects from a number of optimization engines. In an embodiment the data warehouse compares projected and actual outcomes across a number of rules engine performs correlations and updates the optimization engine .

An artisan will recognize from the disclosure herein that the processes and may advantageously be executed in another order may include more or less blocks or may include various alternative embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure.

Process continues with a Block removing the outlier input data. In an embodiment the optimization engine might not use each piece of input data to perform its optimization. Some input data can be insignificant or be determined to be insignificant to the optimization calculation. For example the number of tax regulations impacting individuals might have little bearing on the audit of a corporation. Some input data however might seem to have a more logical connection to the optimization calculation but statistically can be outlier input data for the optimization engine. A client profile for example might indicate that the accountant would likely perform the engagement. The optimization engine however might discard a portion of the client profile input data because its analysis indicates that the data is not significant to the optimization calculation. Alternatively some input data may be considered abnormal based on the remaining portion of the input data. In an embodiment Block removes outlier input data. In an embodiment Block removes mild outlier input data in other embodiment Block removes extreme outlier input data and in other embodiments Block varies the removal of outlier input data as a function of the data itself.

Process also includes Block performing analysis to find correlations. Statistical analysis can indicate correlations between a number of inputs and outputs to determine optimized results. The correlations can be performed based on mathematical techniques computational methods or combinations of the same or other suitable methods. Mathematical techniques can include for example analysis such as linear regression non linear regression uni variate regression multi variate regression linear programming non linear programming stochastic optimization non stochastic optimization or other analysis now known or later developed. Computational methods can include for example analysis such as Monte Carlo simulation neural networks data warehousing analytical processing or other suitable analysis now known or later developed. The analysis can be done in the optimization engine or provided to the optimization engine . The analysis can be performed for example in a third party library or application such as in Microsoft Excel Minitab or other suitable library. The analysis can also be perfomed at the data warehouse with results provided to the optimization engine . In an embodiment the optimization performs multi variate regression to correlate inputs and outputs. In an embodiment the data warehouse performs statistical analysis to correlate inputs and outputs. In an embodiment these calculated results are compared to actual outcomes.

Process also includes Block the calculation of an optimal engagement allocation. The optimal engagement allocation can include determining whether the engagement meets the business objectives specified by the user. In an embodiment the optimization engine analyzes the inputs and outputs to determine whether the engagement fits within the parameters specified by the user.

Process also includes Block a determination of whether or not there is sufficient space in the accountant s projects queue to accept the engagement. If there is sufficient space process includes Block creation of a new schedule. The new schedule can be associated with or relevant to single or multiple users personnel and or accountants. If there is not sufficient space in Block process includes Block .

In Block the user can update the business objectives or other inputs to change the likelihood that the optimization engine will fit the project into the accountant s schedule . The user for example can adjust the business objectives for example by changing the sliders shown in . If the user updates makes adjustments restarts. In an embodiment the optimization engine can provide the user with exemplary settings in the business objectives that will allow the engagement to fit on the schedule. If however the user decides not to alter the inputs or outputs in a step process includes Block by informing the accountant to decline the new or a previously scheduled engagement.

Although disclosed with reference to various activity blocks the process may reorder may advantageously be executed in another order may include more or less blocks or may include various alternative embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure.

All of the processes described above may be embodied in and fully automated via software code modules executed by one or more general purpose computers or processors. The code modules can be stored in any type of computer readable medium or other computer storage device. Some or all of the methods can alternatively be embodied in specialized computer hardware.

Those of skill in the art will further appreciate that the various steps in illustrative flow charts and other features disclosed herein can be implemented as computer software executing on one or more processors. For example portions of the method can operate on one processor accessible and provide intermediate results to a second processor either located within the same computing device or accessible over a network. Whether such functionality is implemented on one or more processors depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or other form of storage medium currently known or later developed. A storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The data structures disclosure herein can be stored either locally or remotely and accessed via a network on a hard drive flash drive optical drive solid state memory RAM ROM or other storage medium capable of storing electronic information now known or later developed. The processor and the storage medium can reside in an ASIC. The ASIC can reside in a user terminal. The processor and the storage medium can reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

Although disclosed generally one or more embodiments of the present disclosure may advantageously be accomplished using one or more individual or communicating computing devices including for example servers workstations computers portable computers portable computing devices PDA s cell phones video games portable music video systems memory storage systems or the like. The term internet includes its broad ordinary meaning known to an artisan and includes a straightforward communication medium between software and or hardware components of one or more computing devices. Moreover illustrates an exemplary block diagram of a hardware software system usable to execute the system for prioritizing client engagements. The system can include a standard computing device such as for example a personal computer whose listed component are familiar to an artisan. For example the system includes a processing unit that executes the workflow optimization engine . depicts the workflow optimization engine residing in random access memory RAM . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize from the present disclosure however that a computer like system can operate code from other locations such as system memory non volatile memory or other suitable storage locations. The system also includes a monitor keyboard mouse and user input interface . The user can interact with these devices to perform the functions disclosed herein. A remote computer can also communicate with system to achieve similar results.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable a person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein can be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein. Thus the invention is limited only by the claims.

