---

title: System and method for providing travel-related information associated with a calendar appointment
abstract: According to one embodiment of the present invention, a method for providing travel-related information associated with a calendar appointment is presented. The method comprises monitoring a calendar application for travel-related appointments. In response to identifying a travel-related appointment, the method retrieves travel-related information associated with a location of the travel-related appointment and provides the travel-related information to a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08457887&OS=08457887&RS=08457887
owner: CenturyLink Intellectual Property LLC
number: 08457887
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081013
---
The principles of the present invention relate to computers and more specifically to providing travel related information associated with a calendar appointment.

With the advent of computers many people have moved away from having physical calendars to using electronic calendars for keeping track of appointments and other important dates. Examples of electronic calendars include Microsoft Outlook Google Calendar and Yahoo Calendar . Most electronic calendars allow a user to schedule appointments by selecting a time and date. In addition some electronic calendars allow a user to specify a location associated with the appointment. Further some electronic calendars provide pop up reminders to a user of an upcoming appointment.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a method for providing travel related information associated with a calendar appointment is presented. The method includes monitoring a calendar application for travel related appointments. In response to identifying a travel related appointment the method retrieves travel related information associated with a location of the travel related appointment and provides the travel related information to a user.

The disclosed embodiments provide useful travel related information associated with travel related appointments of a calendar application. A travel related appointment is a calendar appointment that is identified as requiring a user to travel to a location that is different from a home and or a work location associated with the user. As will be further described a location of an appointment may be determined by examining a location data field associated with an appointment. In addition in some embodiments a location of an appointment may be determined by examining the subject matter and or any additional data associated with the calendar appointment.

Travel related information as references herein includes any information relating to a particular location that a user may find helpful in traveling to the location such as but not limited to directions to the location weather conditions at the location and traffic conditions and or flight information associated with traveling to the location.

With reference now to the figures and in particular with reference to exemplary diagrams of data processing environments are provided in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. It should be appreciated that are only exemplary and are not intended to assert or imply any limitation with regard to the environments in which different embodiments may be implemented. Many modifications to the depicted environments may be made.

Web servers application servers and database servers may include one or more servers such as but not limited to IBM System p servers. In addition computing device computing device computing device and computing device may be for example personal computers network computers personal digital assistants PDAs and or smart phones. In the depicted example web servers application servers and database servers provide data and or services such as but not limited to data files operating system images and applications to computing device computing device computing device and computing device . Network environment may include additional servers clients and other devices not shown.

In some embodiments network is the Internet. The Internet is a global system of interconnected computer networks that interchange data using the standardized Internet Protocol Suite TCP IP . The Internet includes millions of private and public networks that are linked by copper wires fiber optic cables wireless connections and other technologies. Of course network may also be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as but not limited to an intranet a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN .

In accordance with some embodiments a calendar monitor executing on computing device monitors calendar appointments of a calendar application for travel related appointments. In some embodiments calendar monitor may request and receive appointment related information from computing device . Alternatively in some embodiments computing device may routinely send appointment related information to calendar monitor . In response to identifying a travel related appointment calendar monitor determines a location associated with the travel related appointment. Calendar monitor retrieves travel related information associated with the location and provides the travel related information to a user.

As depicted in in some embodiments calendar monitor may reside on a computing device remote from calendar application . Of course calendar monitor may also reside on a server such as but not limited to application servers . is intended as an example and not as an architectural limitation for the different illustrative embodiments.

Further in some embodiments calendar monitor may reside on the same computing device as calendar application as depicted in . In some embodiments calendar monitor uses an application programming interface API to retrieve appointment related data from calendar application . In addition in some embodiments calendar monitor may be incorporated as a part of calendar application and or vice versa. Further in some embodiments a user may be required to register with calendar monitor the calendar appointments that the user desires to be monitored.

CPU executes instructions for software that may be loaded into memory . CPU may be a set of one or more processors or may be a multi processor core depending on the particular implementation. Further CPU may include one or more levels of cache memory such as but not limited to cache memory . Cache memory is used by CPU to store copies of the data from the most frequently used main memory locations to reduce the average time to access memory.

Memory is used to retain digital data used for processing. In some embodiments memory may be a random access memory RAM . RAM memory allows the stored data to be accessed in any order as opposed to storage mechanisms such as tapes and magnetic discs. In addition memory may include any other suitable volatile or non volatile storage device.

CPU loads computer executable instructions such as but not limited to calendar application into memory for execution. Calendar application may comprise one or more calendar appointments such as but not limited to calendar appointment and calendar appointment . In addition CPU may load computer executable instructions for calendar monitor into memory to monitor calendar application for travel related appointments.

Data storage device may take various forms depending on the particular implementation. For example data storage device may be a hard drive flash memory rewritable optical disk rewritable magnetic tape or some combination thereof The media used by data storage device also may be removable such as but not limited to a removable hard drive.

Input output unit may include one or more of the same and or different types of data ports used for connecting external devices to computing device . Input output unit may include a serial port a parallel port an accelerated graphics port and most commonly a universal serial bus USB port. For example input output unit may be used to connect computer peripherals such as mice keyboards PDAs gamepads and joysticks scanners digital cameras printers personal media players and flash drives.

Display adapter is used to generate and output images to a display. Display adapter may be a dedicated expansion card that is plugged into a slot on the motherboard of computing device or may a graphics controller integrated into the motherboard chipset. In addition display adapter may include dedicated memory and one or more processing units.

Network communications unit provides for communications with other data processing systems or devices. In these examples network communications unit is a network interface card. Modems cable modem Ethernet cards and wireless interface cards are just a few of the currently available types of network interface adapters. Network communications unit may provide communications through the use of physical and or wireless communications links.

Audio adapter facilitates the input and output of audio signals to and from computing device . For example audio adapter may provide the audio component for multimedia applications such as music composition editing video or audio presentation education and or entertainment such as video games. In some embodiments audio adapter may be an expansion card added to computing device to provide for audio capability.

Computer readable media device provides a mechanism for reading and writing to tangible forms of computer media such as but not limited to a floppy disc a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD and memory cards. For example CPU may use computer readable media device to read instructions stored on a computer media for executing the computer executable instructions of calendar monitor .

The different components illustrated for computing device are not meant to provide architectural limitations to the manner in which different embodiments may be implemented. For example the different illustrative embodiments may be implemented in a data processing system including components in addition to or in place of those illustrated for computing device .

In addition graphical user interface comprises a subject data entry field and a location data entry field . Subject data entry field may be used to specify a subject event associated with the calendar appointment. In addition location data entry field may be used to specify a location associated with calendar appointment. In some embodiments subject data entry field and or location data entry field may be left empty.

Graphical user interface also includes a start date data entry field and a start time data entry field for selecting a start date and time. In some embodiments a start date data entry field and a start time data entry field may be a pull down menu of dates and times to allow a user to select a desired date and start time. Similarly in some embodiments graphical user interface includes an end date data entry field and an end time data entry field .

Additionally in some embodiments graphical user interface may allow a user to select a reminder option for presenting the user with reminders of the created calendar appointment. For example a user may specify in reminder data entry field that a reminder be sent to the user 15 minutes prior to the specified start date and time.

In some embodiments graphical user interface may include a provide travel related information option to enable a user to specify a calendar appointment as a travel related appointment. Further in some embodiments responsive to a user selecting provide travel related information option graphical user interface may enable a flight option . In response to selecting flight option a user may select a departing airport in departing airport data field and may enter in a flight number in flight number data field . The flight information may be used by calendar monitor in providing travel related information. For example in some embodiments a calendar monitor may monitor the flight schedule associated with the entered flight information to provide the user with real time flight status information as part of the provided travel related information. Of course in some embodiments additional flight information may be collected such as but not limited to return flight information.

Additionally in some embodiments additional notes text may be included in with the calendar appointment in data entry field . For example a user may enter a reminder note such as Bring blue notebooks to meeting. 

Calendar API is a set of functions procedures or classes used for accessing and retrieving appointment related data from calendar application . In some embodiments calendar API may be implemented as part of calendar application . For example Google Calendar Data API may be used to create new calendar appointments edit or delete existing calendar appointments and query for calendar appointments that match particular criteria.

Appointment data examiner examines data retrieved from calendar application to identify travel related appointments. In some embodiments a travel related appointment is identified from a user specified location in location data entry field . For example if a user specifies a location in location data entry field that is different from a home and or a work address associated with the user then appointment data examiner identifies the calendar appointment as a travel related appointment. Alternatively in some embodiments a location of an appointment may be determined by examining the subject matter and or any additional data associated with the calendar appointment such as but not limited to data from data entry field . For example a user may enter lunch with Bob at Olive Garden in data entry field without specifying a location in location data entry field . In this case appointment data examiner may parse the data of data entry field to identify key terms such as but not limited to lunch and or Olive Garden as being associated with a travel related appointment. Of course in some embodiments a user may simply select an option e.g. provide travel related information option specifying a particular calendar appointment as a travel related appointment. Once a travel related appointment is identified appointment data examiner determines a location associated with the travel related appointment and passes that information on to travel related information retriever .

Travel related information retriever retrieves travel related information associated with the location of the travel related appointment. For example in some embodiments travel related information retriever may retrieve a map directions from a user location to the location of the travel related appointment. The user location as will be further described below may be determined in several ways including but not limited setting the user location to a work location for workday appointments a home location for weekend appointments a location of a prior calendar appointment an actual current location of a user and or to a user specified location for a particular calendar appointment. For example if a user knows that he will be out of town for a particular meeting the user may specify a hotel address as the user location.

In addition in some embodiments travel related information retriever may determine or identify flight information from a travel related appointment. In these embodiments travel related information retriever retrieves the specified airport and flight information. Travel related information retriever then retrieves a map directions from a user location to the specified airport.

Further in some embodiments travel related information retriever may retrieve other travel related information such as but not limited to weather information points of interests and traffic conditions associated with the calendar appointment location. The retrieved travel related information is automatically provided to the user.

Moreover in some embodiments travel related information retriever determines an estimated time of travel from a user location to a calendar appointment location and or airport associated with the calendar appointment. Based off of the estimated time of travel the disclosed embodiments provide smart reminders to a user of a calendar appointment. For example currently a user may be reminded of calendar appointment at a specified time prior to the appointment e.g. 15 minutes prior to the appointment time. However a 15 minute reminder is of little help if the user forgets about the calendar appointment and the estimated time to travel to the calendar appointment location takes 30 minutes. Thus a user may already be late to a calendar appointment before receiving a calendar appointment reminder notification. Accordingly in some embodiments calendar monitor provides smart reminders to a user of a calendar appointment by taking into account an estimated travel time. Further in some embodiments the estimated travel time may account for current traffic conditions.

In some embodiments appointment monitor monitors the retrieved information associated with the travel related appointment for any changes. For example appointment monitor may routinely retrieve the flight information associated with a calendar appointment and notify a user of any changes to the flight schedule. Other information including but not limited to traffic and or weather conditions may also be monitored.

User notifier provides the user with the retrieved travel related information. In some embodiments the user may specify a time period to be notified of the travel related information. For example the user may specify that any travel related information for the entire week be provided at the beginning of the week. Further in some embodiments the user may specify a time period for notifying the user of any changes to the travel related information. For example the user may specify that updated travel related information be provided as part of an appointment reminder and or that any changes to the travel related information be immediately notified to the user.

In addition in some embodiments calendar monitor may include an information requestor . Information requester may transmit a request to a user requesting additional information about a calendar appointment. For example in some embodiments information requestor may request a user to enter location information for a calendar appointment having an empty location data entry field . In addition in some embodiments information requestor may request a user to clarify location information. For example if a user specifies Olive Garden in location data entry field and more than one Olive Garden exist within the surrounding area then information requestor may request the user to provide additional information such as but not limited to the city and or zip code of the location associated with the calendar appointment.

In some embodiments information requestor passes the calendar appointment data that is requested to a requested information monitor . Requested information monitor monitors for receipt of the requested information. Once requested information monitor receives the requested information requested information monitor notifies calendar monitor to enable calendar monitor to process the specified calendar appointment.

In addition in some embodiments calendar monitor stores and retrieves data from a data store such as but not limited to data store . Data store may include one or more local or remote databases. For example in some embodiments data store may include personal data associated with the user such as but not limited to the user name home address work address email address and other user specified preferences.

With reference now to an embodiment of a process for providing travel related information associated with calendar appointments is presented. Process begins by monitoring a calendar application for travel related appointments at step . At step the process determines if a travel related appointment is identified. In response to identifying a travel related appointment the process at step retrieves travel related information associated with a location of the travel related appointment. At step the process provides the travel related information to a user with the process terminating thereafter.

However if an unprocessed calendar appointment exists the process retrieves the data associated with the earliest unprocessed calendar appointment at step . For example if an unprocessed calendar appointment is scheduled for tomorrow and another calendar appointment is scheduled for next week process retrieves the data associated with the unprocessed calendar appointment that is scheduled for tomorrow. Of course in some embodiments process may retrieve and process the data associated with two or more unprocessed calendar appointments in parallel.

At step the process examines the retrieved data of the unprocessed calendar appointment to determine if the calendar appointment is travel related. For example in some embodiments a user may specify a calendar appointment as travel related e.g. by selecting provide travel related information option as depicted in . Alternatively in some embodiments process may examine the subject matter location data field and or any additional data associated with the calendar appointment to determine whether the calendar appointment is travel related.

Based on examining the data at step the process at step determines whether any information is missing and or is needed to properly identify the calendar appointment as a travel related appointment. For example a user may simply enter dinner with Mary in subject data entry field without specifying a particular location. Thus without further information process cannot provide any travel related information. Therefore in some embodiments process may send a request for additional information to the user at step . The user request may be in the form of but is not limited to an email requesting the additional information from the user. Process as will be further described in monitors for the requested data at step . At step process marks the appointment as processed or with some other type of indicator to indicate that the calendar appointment is awaiting additional information to ensure that the same calendar appointment is not processed repeatedly.

If additional information is not needed at step the process determines a start time and a location associated with the calendar appointment at step . At step the process compares the location of the calendar appointment to a work and or home location of the user to determine if the calendar appointment requires the user to travel. If the calendar appointment does not require the user to travel the process marks the calendar appointment as processed at step and returns to step .

However if the calendar appointment does require the user to travel then in some embodiments the process determines the appropriate time period for retrieving the travel related information based on a user specified preference at step . For example a user may prefer to be notified of the travel related information only hours in advance of the calendar appointment. Thus if the calendar appointment is not for another three weeks the process at step places the appointment information into an appointment queue for retrieving the travel related information at the preferred time. At step the process executes an appointment queue scheduler to monitor and retrieve the travel related information at the appropriate time. An embodiment of a process performed by the appointment queue scheduler is further described in .

In some embodiments if process has not received the requested information from the user after a specified period of time the process may resubmit the request for additional information to the user. Further in some embodiments a user may specify that if a response to a request for additional information is not received within a specified period of time then the process should treat the associated calendar appointment as a non travel related appointment.

With reference now to an embodiment of a process for providing travel related information is presented. In addition process notifies a user of changes to the travel related information and also provides smart reminder notifications to a user. Further process monitors and retrieves the travel related information at a user specified time.

Process begins at step by monitoring the appointment queue for the next travel related information retrieval time associated with a calendar appointment. In some embodiments the appointment queue is ordered based on retrieval time. At step the process determines whether the next retrieval time of a calendar appointment matches a current time. If the process determines that the retrieval time of the next calendar appointment matches the current time the process retrieves a user location at step . An embodiment of a process for retrieving a user location will be further described in .

The process determines at step whether flight information is associated with a calendar appointment. For example a user may enter in flight information associated with calendar appointment as depicted in . Alternatively in some embodiments if the location of the calendar appointment is outside a specified travel range such as but not limited to miles from a work or home location the process may send a request to the user for any flight information associated with the calendar appointment. If flight information is associated with the calendar appointment at step the process retrieves the flight information at step . At step the process retrieves a map and or directions from the user location to an airport location associated with the retrieved flight information. In some embodiments the process may also retrieve a map and or directions from the arriving airport to a specified location such as but not limited to the calendar appointment location and or a hotel location. However if at step the process determines that flight information is not associated with the calendar appointment the process retrieves a map and or directions from a user location to the calendar appointment location at step . In some embodiments the process at step retrieves additional travel related information such as but not limited to traffic conditions weather conditions and or points of interest such as but not limited to landmarks associated with the location of the travel related appointment.

Further in some embodiments the process provides smart reminders to a user of a calendar appointment by calculating the estimated time from a user location to a calendar appointment location airport at step . At step the process calculates a remaining time and an available time. The remaining time is the difference between the calendar appointment time and the current time. The available time is the difference between the remaining time and the estimated travel time. For example if the current time is 11 a.m. and the calendar appointment time is 12 noon then the remaining time is one hour. If the estimated travel time from the user location to the calendar appointment location is 45 minutes then the available time is 15 minutes. At step the process determines if the available time is less than or equal to a specified time limit. If the available time is less than or equal to the specified time limit the process notifies the user at step . In some embodiments the user may turn off the smart reminders by acknowledging the notification. If the user does not acknowledge the smart reminder the process may send another smart reminder after a specified number of minutes. For instance in the above example a user may specify the time limit to 15 minutes because the user desires to be early to a calendar appointment or requires a few minutes to pack up and go. In such a case the user will be notified reminded at 11 a.m. to leave for the 12 noon calendar appointment.

At step the process determines if the travel related information is being monitored only for changes associated with a previously provided set of travel related information. In other words if the travel related information was previously provided to the user the process only provides updated travel related information to the user in response to a change in condition such as but not limited to changes to traffic weather conditions and or flight status. If the travel related information was not previously provided to the user the process provides the travel related information to the user at step . The process then marks the calendar appointment for monitoring at step i.e. monitor for changes to the travel related information associated with this calendar appointment. At step the process then increments the retrieval time by a set number of minutes such as but not limited to five minutes. Thus in this example the process monitors for changes to the travel related information every five minutes.

However if the travel related information was previously provided to the user the process determines at step whether any changes to the previously provided travel related information have occurred. If a change to the travel related information has occurred the user is notified of the change to the travel related information step . If the previously provided travel related information has not changed the process increments the retrieval time by a set number of minutes at step .

At step the process determines if the incremented retrieval time is greater than a start time associated with the retrieved calendar appointment time. If so the process removes the calendar appointment from the appointment queue at step . At step the process determines if more appointments exist in the appointment queue. If the appointment queue is empty the process terminates. However if the appointment queue is not empty the process returns to step and monitors the appointment queue for the next retrieval time.

However if at step the incremented retrieval time is not greater than the calendar appointment time the process places the calendar appointment back in the appointment queue at step . The process then returns to step and repeats process until the appointment queue is empty.

For example at step the user may specify that a current user location be determined i.e. a real time approximate location. In these embodiments the process at step retrieves geographical coordinates such as but not limited to GPS coordinates and or cellular triangulation points associated with an electronic device that is carried and or is known to be in the proximity of the user. For example in some embodiments the user may be located by determining the location of a cellular device associated with the user. Alternatively in some embodiments the user may be located by determining the location of a vehicle associated with the user. Of course other methods now known or later developed may be used to determine a current user location. At step the process determines the current position of the user using the received coordinates. The process sets the user location to the current position of the user at step with the process terminating thereafter.

In some embodiments a user at step may specify a pre established user location for a particular calendar appointment and or all calendar appointments. If a pre established user location is specified the process retrieves the pre established user location at step . The process then sets the user location to the user specified location at step with the process terminating thereafter.

Alternatively in some embodiments a user at step may specify that the process determines a user location based on a prior calendar appointment location. For example a user may specify that if a prior appointment is within a specified time limit of the next appointment then the user location should be the location of the prior appointment. If the next appointment is within the specified time limit then at step the process retrieves the location of the prior calendar appointment. The process sets the user location to the retrieved location of prior calendar appointment at step with the process terminating thereafter.

Further in some embodiments the process may also determine the user location based on the day of the week that the calendar appointment is on. For example a user may specify the user location as a work location for workday appointments and a home location for weekend appointments. Thus in these embodiments the process determines the day of the week associated with the calendar appointment at step . The process then retrieves the user specified location for the particular day of the week at step . The process sets the user location to the retrieved user specified location for the calendar appointment at step with the process terminating thereafter. In addition in some embodiments if a user location is not determinable the process may also set the user location to a default location at step with the process terminating thereafter.

Accordingly the disclosed embodiments present a system and method for providing travel related information associated with a calendar appointment. The method comprises monitoring a calendar application for travel related appointments. In response to identifying a travel related appointment the method retrieves travel related information associated with the location and provides the travel related information to a user.

Further the disclosed embodiments monitor for changes to the provided travel related information and notify the user of any changes in condition. Moreover the disclosed embodiments provide smart reminders to a user of a calendar appointment by accounting for the time necessary to travel to a location associated with a calendar appointment.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the disclosed embodiments may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly the disclosed embodiments may be implemented entirely with hardware or as a software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the disclosed embodiments may take the form of a computer program product embodied in any tangible medium of expression having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The disclosed embodiments described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams. Each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

In addition the flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

