---

title: System and method for providing search engine-based rewards
abstract: A system for enhancing search engine-based search results comprises an application programming interface configured to add value to selected search engine-based web search, a tag indicative of the value-added capacity that is appended to one or more links; a client that accepts a search request and enables an integrated view responsive to the request; and a web server for fetching the integrated web data upon receiving a request for selected search-engine-based web search. The enhanced search engine-based web search system further comprises a content manager that is configured to store and calculate the added value in a personal account of a web user. The added value is retrievable by the user. Search engine-based online search enhancing system and methods also are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07908262&OS=07908262&RS=07908262
owner: SurfJar, Inc.
number: 07908262
owner_city: Sherwood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080219
---
The invention relates generally to the field of on line Internet or World Wide Web searching. More particularly the invention relates to a reward system for web users who visit websites linked as a search engine s search results responsive to the web users requests.

The systems and tools of various embodiments of the present invention may include workstations network devices database systems and methods to assist merchants creating a novel consensual advertising technique while optimizing their advertisement resources. The systems and tools benefit the web users by allowing them to be more discriminating in their search engine based web search.

Merchants traditionally advertise their products or services online through websites. They sign up with search engine providers for a space in the latter s advertising networks. The merchant advertisers pay for their spaces in such adverting networks. Typically the merchant advertisers pay the search engine providers or the hosts of the advertising networks a fee based on the number of clicks on a particular link to their respective websites. This online advertising model is frequently referred as the Pay Per Click or PPC method. In general these paid advertising contents are referred to as sponsored ads or sponsored domain or sponsored links to information about the sponsor s services or products. This sponsored advertising model has become an increasingly important means in the commercial world nowadays for the merchant advertisers to reach potential consumers. Although relatively effective this online marketing means comes with an increasingly high cost for the merchants to advertise online and produces only a limited return on investment ROI .

When signing up with a search engine provider a merchant advertiser typically provides a keyword list and bids for the highest possible listing position in the search engine provider s advertising network. The keywords must efficiently represent the advertised services or products to ensure a high click through rate based upon matching with the search terms that are input by web users in search for information about such services or products.

In the PPC world paid or sponsored ads constitute an invitation to web users to visit the advertiser s website that contains information about a particular service or product. A web user may accept the invitation by a single interaction with a web browser or a graphic user interface GUI device i.e. a click on a link to the web data in the paid or sponsored domain. There is no consensual relationship between the advertiser and the web users because the web users exist as a group only incidental to the contract between the advertiser and the search engine provider. The web users thus receive no benefit in monetary or other tangible value from the online advertising contract.

When a web user who seeks information about a product enters a keyword phrase or product model number into a search bar of the web browser or GUI device a client system sends the request query to a server and fetches web pages that contain information about the product. Upon receiving such request query the server collects sorts and sends to the client system relevant search results which can be hyperlinks to web data in the natural as well as the paid sponsored domains. As a common practice a list of hyperlinks to the web data in the paid or advertiser sponsored domain for example on the right hand side of a browser window while those natural or non sponsored hyperlinks occupy the main central left section of the browser window. Psychologically normal web users may stay away from the paid hyperlinks for fear of being bombarded by highly commercialized information. Although the paid or sponsored hyperlinks invite visits the web users enjoy an absolute right to ignore their existence while devoting themselves to the natural search engine results. As a result the click through rate on the hyperlinks to web data in the paid sponsored domain typically is much lower than that for those in the natural non sponsored domain.

The present invention comprises systems and methods of implementing a SurfJar web programming application software. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a system for providing search engine based web data integration comprises an application programming interface that is configured to add value to selected search engine based web search. The application programming interface provides links that effectuate an instant navigation to a landing page that contains integrated web data resulting from the selected search engine based web search. The system comprises a tag indicative of the value added capacity of the selected search engine based web search that is appendable to one or more of the links. The search engine based web data integration system also comprises a web browser and a SurfJar web server. The web browser i.e. a client system is operable to accept a request from a web user and enables an integrated view responsive to the request the integrated view displaying the integrated web data. The SurfJar web server fetches the integrated web data upon receiving a request for selected search engine results. A content manager is configured into the SurfJar web server to store and calculate the added value in a personal account of a user the added value retrievable by the user.

The system further comprises a rewarding mechanism by which to enable one or more merchants to reward the web users based on their visits to the integrated web data available at freely accessible domains. The rewarding mechanism further enables web users to become system subscribers by way of subscription to the rewarding mechanism. In addition the system comprises a search engine that is integrated to assist in traversing metadata over the Internet for the selected search engine results.

The system is further configured to include a value indicator an iconographic symbol or a tag that can be appended to one or more links. The rewards include redeemable points with monetary value free merchandises or services and coupons that offer discount to purchase of certain merchandises or services provided by participating merchants. The rewards become available to subscribers upon their single interaction with a tagged link. In addition the redeemable reward points or their money value is directable by subscribers to designated destinations which comprises one or more of a family member a friend a charity and a not for profit organization.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a search engine based online search enhancing system comprises a reward server to store freely accessible web data a client to provide a user interface and a rewarding mechanism configured to add value to selected use of a search engine. The reward server provides the client with the freely accessible web data upon receiving a request for a selected search engine based online search. The client provides a user interface for receiving a request from a web user and displays one or more links responsive to the request. The rewarding mechanism establishes a platform that enables participating merchants to entice subscribers to visit their web pages and facilitates subscription to their web data. The enticement is realized by way of appending an iconographic symbol e.g. a distinctive tag indicative of value added capacity along with awardable rewards to a link that provides instant navigation to web data responsive to a particular search request.

The rewarding mechanism comprises tools and devices that make value rewarding ready and simple the added value becomes awardable to a subscriber based on a click on a tagged link or a visit to freely accessible web pages provided by a participating merchant.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention an enhancing search engine based search method comprises establishing with one or more merchants a rewarding mechanism for awarding subscribers who visit their web pages appending to selected search engine based search results a visible tag indicating to the subscribers a value added capacity and activating a reward server upon actuating a click on a tagged entry the reward server configured to offer rewards for subscription to the tagged entry. The method comprises enabling the merchants to reward subscribers to their web pages by way of tagged entries associated with the offering merchants. In addition the method comprises enticing the subscribers to select search engine based search results from the tagged entries for a reward and facilitating a reward account management to the subscribers for earned rewards. The method further comprises providing one or more portable compartments each having a categorical label indicating a destination of the earned rewards.

In another embodiment of the present invention a method for augmenting a web use of a search engine comprises contracting with a merchant to offer rewards to visitors of a website provided by a merchant subscribing a user to a reward service annotating a contracted link presented as a search result with an icon indicative of a reward offer detecting selection by a subscribing user of such an annotated link providing a reward server configured to fulfill a reward request from the user who selected the annotated link and providing a user interface configured to permit the user to designate one or more reward receivers to place a reward fulfilled by the reward server. The method further comprises providing a mechanism for integrating the reward service the user interface and the reward server operable to augment the use of a search engine.

The SurfJar search engine based web data search enhancing system is generally illustrated in which is simplified to avoid obscuring an understanding of the embodiments with excess detail and where persons of ordinary skill in this art can readily understand its structure and functionality by way of the drawing and disclosure.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention referencing a SurfJar rewarding mechanism is integrated into web programming application to provide incentive to web users for their selected use of a search engine when they look for information about a product or service online. The rewarding mechanism interacts over the Internet with two major components of web programming application i.e. SurfJar server system and client system . The client system comprises its identifier and web browser to provide the usual user interface by way of browser toolbar for purpose of being user friendly. The term browser toolbar is used for a ready understanding of the embodiment those skilled in the art understand that it may be interchangeable with any other graphic user interface GUI tools or devices that facilitate a system s usability and accessibility. Client identifier is a permanent client ID number assigned by server system to client when client first interacts with and makes itself known to the server. After acquiring client ID client includes its ID in all of its communication with server which further provides support to SurfJar rewarding mechanism which is further explained in the subsequent text.

Client system provides a support to SurfJar rewarding mechanism by including in its browser a SurfJar toolbar that is compatible and interactive with other tooling components of the client system. Upon subscription to SurfJar rewarding mechanism SurfJar toolbar is downloaded and further integrated into client system . Although it may be made to appear next to the usual browser toolbar in the browser window SurfJar toolbar is independently operable to implement subscriber interface with SurfJar rewarding mechanism .

Client system can be installed in a personal computer a workstation or a handheld computing device to interact with a probably remote server system by way of a network while client provides user interface by way of web browser . The server system includes four modules each of which provides a communication tool to interact with client system . In a particular embodiment module receives requests from client for search engine results in response to selected web uses. The term selected is used to distinguish a deliberately discriminative action from any other actions taken by a web user when selecting and clicking on a link to gain access to web pages of interest. Typically a search engine based web search may fetch both natural also known as organic or algorithmic search results and paid also known as advertiser sponsored search results. Although both types of search results are currently available to web users for free information without subjecting them to any commitment natural search results promote search engine optimization to increase web sites relevance.

Taking the deliberately discriminative action is motivated by an expectation of receiving rewards with monetary value. The expectation is well founded and realizable using SurfJar rewarding mechanism . Upon rewarding module automatically saves and stores rewarded value e.g. reward points in personal reward database and feeds back to client about the saved reward points. Module enables web users to redeem their earned and saved reward points for a monetary figure it receives requests from client for retrieval of reward data for redemption fetches earned reward points stored in personal reward database and sends the earned reward points along with calculated monetary value to client . Module enables web users to direct their earned rewards to designated destinations that comprises one or more of a family member a friend and a third party beneficiary such as a charity or a not for profit organization. Upon receiving requests from client for directing certain reward points or their monetary value module responds with specified data and updates personal reward database .

Continuing with reference to server system comprises four or more databases e.g. databases to support one or more related interfaces. The client ID database maintains client identifier and authentication information such as user name and password before allowing access to some or all resources supported or provided by server . The general web database handles static as well as dynamic contents associated with various data sources ranging from a local file system to an external program script or application programming interface. Database supports any client request for a Uniform Resource Locator URL in general. The selected web database provides virtual hosting to serve many websites that are associated with SurfJar rewarding mechanism . As referenced in the text above the personal reward database performs personalized reward management corresponding with the client data stored in databases and to determine particular rewards for each of web users who have subscribed to the SurfJar rewarding campaign.

The SurfJar rewarding mechanism assists merchants participating in a SurfJar online reward campaign reaching potential customers who are web users. When signing up an online campaign for their products or services with SurfJar rewarding mechanism the merchants offer monetary valuables to entice web users to visit their websites or web pages that contain information about their products or services by way of rewarding mechanism . The visit based monetary valuables may comprise a coupon for purchase of merchandise or service at a discounted price free merchandise or service and or reward points that are accumulatible retrievable and redeemable by a reward recipient i.e. a web user who visited the website or web pages of the offering merchant. The monetary valuables add value to what web users already and always do web surfing for information of interest freely accessible web data in particular.

The SurfJar rewarding mechanism also assists web users subscribing to a participating merchant s online reward promotion campaign. In one particular embodiment of the present invention referencing a web user may visit web pages provided by a participating merchant receive rewards offered thereby create a portable iconographic compartment having a categorical label indicating the merchant and deposit the earned reward in the labeled compartment. The portable compartment can be designed as an iconographic jar in a particular embodiment. Those skilled in the art understand that such portable compartment can be also designed as a logo a graphic object or a colored highlighter supportable by any graphical operating system. The web user completes the subscription process by way of interacting with SurfJar toolbar with the assistance of subscriber interface . The steps of downloading of SurfJar toolbar and associated interface software are further explained by reference to .

The SurfJar rewarding mechanism further comprise a reward account manager who assists the owner of a personal reward account managing assets in the account the assets being the earned reward points money values or other tangibles. The reward manager is configured to interact with both SurfJar server and client while assisting the account owner. The assistance provided by the reward manager may include collecting depositing accumulating redeeming and or directing of the reward assets in the account. In a preferred embodiment a particular example of desired assistance from the reward manager may include designating the reward assets for one or more causes and setting goals specified in a reward points amount for each cause. These features are further explained with reference to .

In a preferred embodiment continuing with reference to SurfJar rewarding mechanism may be symbolized as an iconographic element with indicated value added capacity. The iconographic element may be characterized to include a tab pot jar folder file avatar mascot cupboard drawer safe compartment or any container that is capable of collecting and storing valuables yet portable so that it is appendable to a link that provides instant navigation to web pages. A SurJar icon appendable to a link when displayed as one of search engine results on a graphic user interface window provides a visible distinction to the annotated link from other usual links. The link can be a hyperlink a data pointer an arrow icon a web navigator or any indicator capable of directing online navigation.

In accordance with a particular embodiment of the present invention referencing when server returns to client with search engine results web browser displays them on a browser sub window illustrated with dashed lines. Typically search engine results include hyperlinks in the paid or sponsored domain and hyperlinks in the natural or non sponsored domain. also illustrates an iconographic tag indicative of this value added capacity that is appended to a hyperlink to create a SurfJar link . A certain amount of reward points for example 5 points may appear along with tag to specify the value being added based on a click on SurfJar link . With functionality similar to other hyperlinks SurfJar link provides an instant navigation to a landing page containing integrated web contents of a participating merchant s website.

As illustrated in a SurfJar link is appended to a hyperlink in the natural domain which is intended only for a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Even when paid ads are bundled with interesting programs to solicit the largest possible coverage of audience human nature makes people tend to ignore those paid ads while searching for the content of interest. The same happens when the web links in the paid domain appear on the same browser window with those in the natural domain. Still pages after pages of hyperlinks in both domains and to web pages all responsive to a particular web search request may dilute a search for web data of interest. The annotation of tag and associated reward points to SurfJar link not only provides an eye catching distinction from for example other links in domain but also presents a welcoming invitation to web users who are enticed to click on the SurfJar link with an expectation to be rewarded.

When a web user is enticed to click on a SurfJar link the reward points instantly become collectible with assistance from SurfJar application programming interface as described with reference to . Referencing steps and of a client system e.g. client of is created upon a request from a web user to become a subscriber to the SurfJar rewarding system. As the web user inputs personal information to create a personal SurfJar account with the assistance of user interface provided by client system server system of generates an identifier for this particular client which client system receives from the SurfJar server as illustrated by step of . The server system then stores the identifier in Client ID database of as illustrated by step of . The subscription process completes when a SurfJar client program characterized by toolbar of is displayed to the subscriber s personal computer workstation or handheld computing device step of . In a particular embodiment client system may display the SurfJar toolbar next to the generic toolbar whenever a search engine is activated for web searching.

The SurfJar subscription process may be initiated by a web user as soon as a search engine is activated referencing step of without initiating a search engine based web search. The subscription may be enticed by an invitation from SurfJar however the invitation is optional which is illustrated by the dashed line around step of . Thus in an alternative embodiment of the present invention web users may initiate downloading of the SurfJar toolbar of by going to SurfJar website independent of a search engine based web search. The web users therefore configure their browsers or any other interface devices for incorporating a SurfJar subscriber interface and then become SurfJar subscribers known to the system by way of submission of certain basic personal information. Upon subscription a personal reward account with SurfJar is created and installed in a server system e.g. SurfJar server of as illustrated by step of . The features including configuration of a new subscriber s browser step and display of a SurfJar toolbar therein step are similar to those as described earlier with reference to . Again the term browser is interchangeable with any other interface devices for the same functionality as described here above.

Steps of further illustrate the embodiment characterized by effectuating the interface among the client system the server and the search engine which generates search engine based results responsive to a search request. For example client sends request query to server upon receiving a search request input by a web user and displays on a browser GUI window the data fetched by SurfJar server . The data comprise links to web pages of documents or files and linked objects such as graphics or images as provided by one or more merchants who introduce to the world their products or services and promote such online. For those merchants who have participated in SurfJar reward campaign their affiliation with SurfJar qualifies the links to their web pages to be SurfJar links. Each of the SurfJar links has a SurfJar icon and associated reward points annotated therewith which may be referred to as tagged links. The client system displays the SurfJar links along with non SurfJar links in the same browser GUI window as illustrated by step of with reference to . The SurfJar icon and associated reward points however attract subscribers and general web users to click on a SurfJar link that effectively expands to associated web pages.

A deliberated click or any actuating action on the SurfJar link instantly awards the indicated reward points to the user subscriber as illustrated by step of . A subscriber may be able to claim the instantly earned reward points while a non subscribing user may have to wait until the SurfJar subscription process is completed as explained above with reference to . Upon claiming the instantly earned reward points the reward points are directed to the active jar as illustrated by step . The subscribers have options for directing the reward points either to a general fund i.e. a general purpose jar or to a particularly designated jar refer briefly to . They may direct their reward points to certain active jars by default or create new active jars to further manage their rewards. The subscriber s web searching activities are fully supported by the SurfJar rewarding system that ensures and optimizes web searching activities as well as the benefits associated with such activities.

Steps of illustrate certain features of a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The features facilitate certain functionalities of the server system that supports a cached SurfJar reward management. When SurfJar reward points are earned the server system provides support to the personal reward manager for collecting counting and crediting to the corresponding personal reward account the earned reward points while the on the fly point earning continues. SurfJar subscribers are able to view update and manage their personal reward accounts by way of interacting with a web browser or a GUI device. At the end of a web searching activity the personal reward manager reports the total reward earned as illustrated by step of .

Performing of step may result in a transactional landing page that requests the subscriber to complete a transaction with the system for example to fill out a form or answer a few survey questions or interact with other objects. Additional reward points or other tangible value may be awarded to the subscriber for engaging in such transaction as illustrated by step . The subscriber may direct the claimed reward points to one or more designated destinations e.g. labeled jars as illustrated by step . While the subscribers continue their web searching activities they continue and extend their reward earning capacity with the assistance of SurfJar rewarding system.

Referencing back to SurfJar toolbar comprises paned windows each facilitating certain functionality of user interface for the SurfJar rewarding mechanism. For example shows a screen shot of a paned window labeled SurfJar that provides functionalities including login my account seeking help etc. Interaction with one of the tabs enables the subscribers to implement a desired functionality of the SurfJar rewarding mechanism. For example referencing a click on the My Account tab allows the subscribers to access their personal accounts for information about earned rewards. An entry at the Site tab enables navigation to the specified merchant s website. Whenever reward points are earned the Active Jar function is activated to display a logo or a jar indicated of the sponsoring merchant from whose website the reward points are earned. The value of the indicated Active Jar is increased with the earned reward points accordingly. The reward points in the Active Jar are directable to one or more destinations of choice. Only one Active Jar is activated at a time which associates the web searching activities with the reward point earning capacity. Interactions with the paned windows respectively labeled My Jars of and Friends of and associated tabs further assist the subscribers to manage their personal reward accounts.

Referencing the paned windows respectively labeled Site of and Offer of configured onto the SurfJar toolbar to memorize a SurfJar link that the subscribers have selected during their web searching. The tabs featured in these paned windows interact with the subscribers which facilitate a ready user interface for their web searching activities. Also to enhance a merchant s online promotion campaign both the paned window of and paned window of capture and display the selected SurfJar link that can be the merchant s logo or URL along with its offers and other promotional information. The selected SurfJar link remains on the SurfJar toolbar until the subscribers move onto another SurfJar link and associated URL. Again any description with reference to any of the figures specified above may be understood to be illustrative of one possible inventive aspect of the invention but not limiting in any way.

In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention referencing participating merchants receive multiple benefits from using the SurfJar reward system which can be measured in dollar amounts. The represents the multiple benefits receivable by merchants ranging from saved online advertising cost to increased revenue generated from their SurfJar links to web data in the natural domain that enjoy a substantially higher click through rate. The higher click through rate is compared with that for web pages in the sponsored domain as well as that for web pages associated with hyperlinks in the natural domain yet without a SurfJar icon appended. Currently merchants promote their products or services by utilizing online advertising models on search engines advertising networks or content websites and pay for such service. Because of sheer competition for available web real estate and increasingly higher cost this online advertising model has become no longer profitable for many merchants. Nevertheless promotional information in the paid or sponsored domain may provide the major online advertising means for merchants before a novel effective revenue generating system such as SurfJar rewarding system becomes available to them.

The sign represents money that can be earned by subscriber by way of clicking on SurfJar links after becoming a subscriber to the SurfJar rewarding campaign. An individual subscriber daily limit or other safeguard mechanisms may be imposed on the earnings of subscriber to prevent abuse or fraudulent activities. The third party beneficiaries including family members friends or charities of choice of the subscriber may also enjoy a derivative benefit from the SurfJar rewarding system when subscriber directs the redeemed reward points to them. The rewarding system host e.g. SurfJar receives a portion of the cake a small percentage of the revenue generated based on the number of visits by subscribers .

Further referencing a missing piece from cake suggests the existence of other game players cake eaters for example search engine providers who may participate in sharing the cake. The size of the missing piece may vary dependent upon current market for paid ads bargaining power for specific business arrangement and the emergence of new technology beyond the scope of the present invention.

It will be understood that the present invention is not limited to the method or detail of construction fabrication material application or use described and illustrated herein. Indeed any suitable variation of fabrication use or application is contemplated as an alternative embodiment and thus is within the spirit and scope of the invention.

It is further intended that any other embodiments of the present invention that result from any changes in application or method of use or operation configuration method of manufacture shape size or material which are not specified within the detailed written description or illustrations contained herein yet would be understood by one skilled in the art are within the scope of the present invention.

Finally those of skill in the art will appreciate that the invented method system and apparatus described and illustrated herein may be implemented in software firmware or hardware or any suitable combination thereof. Preferably the method system and apparatus are implemented in a combination of the three for purposes of low cost and flexibility. Thus those of skill in the art will appreciate that embodiments of the methods and system of the invention may be implemented by a computer or microprocessor process in which instructions are executed the instructions being stored for execution on a computer readable medium and being executed by any suitable instruction processor.

Accordingly while the present invention has been shown and described with reference to the foregoing embodiments of the invented apparatus it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that other changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

