---

title: Multi-tone driven high-power narrow-linewidth rare earth doped fiber amplifier
abstract: A method to increase the output power of narrow-linewidth rare earth-doped fiber amplifiers by suppressing simulated Brillouin scattering. The fiber amplifier is seeded with two or more lasers having frequencies and input powers that are sufficiently different. The seed signal with the highest emission cross section (e.g., signal ) initially experiences the greatest gain. If signal  is also given sufficiently greater input power than signal  it will be amplified to its maximum value before the seed signals have reached the midpoint of the gain fiber. Beyond that point, the signal having the lower emission and absorption cross sections (signal ) and significantly lower input power will continue to experience gain by power transfer from both signal  and the pump light, attaining a power output well beyond what the maximum output would have been had the amplifier been illuminated with a single frequency beam. This technique effectively reduces the Stokes light of signal  whereby higher power narrow-linewidth optical fiber amplifiers may be realized.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07764720&OS=07764720&RS=07764720
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 07764720
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080826
---
The conditions under which this invention was made are such as to entitle the Government of the United States under paragraph I a of Executive Order 10096 as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force to the entire right title and interest therein including foreign rights.

The present invention relates generally to optical fibers and in particular to narrow linewidth high power continuous wave or quasi continuous wave fiber lasers and amplifiers.

Stimulated Brillouin scattering SBS is a limiting factor in the evolution of fiber lasers and amplifiers towards higher power and is also harmful to optical communications signals. Fundamentally SBS is a nonlinear process that describes the scattering of laser light by a travelling hypersonic acoustic grating. As a by product Doppler shifted scattered light known as Stokes light is generated. The interaction of the Stokes light with the laser light induces electrostriction in the medium and thus tends to re enforce the acoustic wave. In an optical fiber momentum conservation requires the Stokes light to propagate in the opposite direction as the laser light. It is well known in the art that once a certain amount of optical power is coupled into or is generated in the fiber significant backscattered Stokes light is produced causing the performance of the fiber to degrade. The SBS process is characterized by a gain spectrum that determines the SBS response of the medium to the pump frequency. Measurements in silica fibers have established a Brillouin shift of approximately 16 GHz and a linewidth of approximately 40 MHz at a wavelength of 1064 nm. The effective SBS gain can be diminished through the use of a broad linewidth seed laser. However several important applications including coherent beam combination for directed energy purposes harmonic generation lidar and gravitational wave detection require the use of high power narrow linewidth optical fiber amplifiers and lasers. Therefore there is a need for techniques that mitigate the SBS process.

A commonly used approximate formula to calculate the SBS threshold in optical fibers was proposed in 1972 by R. G. Smith in Applied Optics 11 pp. 2489 2494 21 1 where Ais the optical effective area Lis the effective interaction length and where gis the peak value of the Brillouin gain. Therefore The SBS threshold can be increased by decreasing the effective length of the fiber increasing the effective area or somehow manipulating the Brillouin gain in the fiber. The increase in the SBS threshold through the decrease of length is limited by the gain requirements in the fiber. Moreover increased gain per unit length through the use of higher concentrations of rare earth elements is beset with problems associated with photodarkening and solubility limits. Much work has been done to increase the effective area of the fiber through the use of large mode area LMA fibers. While conventional LMA fiber designs have been successful in delivering single mode power outputs exceeding 100 watts there is general agreement that new approaches are required for further enhancement is of the power.

A variety of experimental efforts have been attempted or proposed to reduce the SBS threshold through the manipulation of the SBS gain via the fiber doping profile e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 130 514 and 7 167 621 . In U.S. Pat. No. 5 851 259 by Clayton et al. the SBS threshold is reduced by introducing a modulation in the tension applied to the fiber during the draw process. This idea was expanded on in U.S. Pat. No. 6 542 683 by Evans et al. as a permanent non uniform stress is imparted to the fiber core through non uniform thermal expansion and viscosity profiles. The latter inventor shows that a simple modulation of tension during the draw process leads to a marginal increase in the SBS threshold. The technique is limited by the fact that a change in the draw tension leads to a change in the fiber diameter. The latter inventor did not envision a fiber which could be manufactured with polarization maintaining properties.

In 2004 Wessels et al. reported in Optics Express 12 pp. 4443 4448 on a 72 m long fiber amplifier pumped with two seed lasers. The two seed signals were separated by twice the SBS shift. The Stokes generated light from one laser signal coupled into the second laser light allowing the first laser signal to grow to twice the power level of a single seed amplifier. One significant drawback of this technique is the requirement that the two seed signals have to be precisely tuned. Another significant drawback is that at such a small frequency separation a parasitic process known as four wave mixing FWM is prominent leading to the generation of several frequency sidebands. This broadening of the optical power spectrum precludes the application of this method to fiber laser applications that require well defined spectra such as coherent beam combining.

While some of the foregoing patents and applications may describe techniques that can lead to improvement in the power output of narrow linewidth amplifiers each can have limitations. Accordingly there remains a need in the art for new methods that address prior deficiencies.

The present invention for mitigating SBS effects is a novel technique that takes advantage of the emission and absorption properties of ytterbium Yb doped fibers as well as other rare earth doped amplifiers. If a fiber amplifier is constructed with two input seeds and these signals have a large enough frequency separation i.e. larger than twice the Brillouin shift the scientific literature teaches that each signal will reach its SBS threshold independently and effectively double the total power out of a single amplifier albeit in two colors. This effect is discussed Wessels et al. in 2004 Optics Express 12 pp. 4443 4448 and also in 1987 by Lichtman et al. Journal of the Optical Society of America B pp. 1397 1403 and it has been posited that such methods cannot amplify either input signal to powers higher than that of the single signal case. The present invention shows that this is indeed not the case as there are certain design conditions of input seed power ratios and wavelength frequency separation that if realized will allow enhancement of the power output at one of the input frequencies. if the two input signals have a large enough separation on the order of 10 nm then remarkable effects based on the physics of the absorption and emission cross sections of the dopant used can be taken advantage of to mitigate SBS. For the case of an Yb doped amplifier seeded simultaneously with a 1064 nm and a 1050 nm laser light for example the higher emission cross section of the 1050 nm light combined with a higher pump power and skewed input seed ensures that this signal will reach its maximum amplification at a distance roughly halfway along the fiber in question. Past that point power transfer occurs from the 1050 nm light and into the 1064 nm light while the SBS threshold is raised due to a reduction in the spatially integrated Stokes gain.

The present invention is a method of reducing the stimulated Brillouin scattering SBS effect in order to allow for the design of high power narrow linewidth lasers and amplifiers. The invention is applicable to various waveguide structures comprised of core and cladding regions in which most of the light power is contained in the core. The invention will also work in conjunction with other SBS suppressing schemes.

As an overview a fiber amplifier consists of a silica core doped with a rare earth element most notably erbium Er ytterbium Yb or thulium TM . The purpose of the rare earth dopant is to provide laser gain. The core is also injected with other dopants for other purposes. For example germanium is used to raise the effective index of refraction of the core and allow guiding via total internal reflection. Those practicing the art recognize that laser gain is achieved when a sufficient number of electrons are made to occupy the upper energy lasing level of a rare earth ion. This process is known as population inversion and can be achieved by injecting what is known in the art as pump light into the fiber. This process is typically facilitated by designing double clad fibers which allow significant portion of pump light to propagate in the inner cladding before being absorbed in the core. Simultaneously a laser beam called the signal is coupled into the core. As this signal travels along the length of the fiber it sees laser gain due to the population inversion and is amplified. As a result power is typically transferred from the low brightness multi mode pump light and into the high brightness single mode light making the amplifier suitable for a variety of applications. As discussed above SBS can limit this process and will thus impose an upper limit threshold on the amount of signal light that can be generated in a given amplifier. The present invention makes use of the simultaneous illumination of the fiber amplifier by two or more seed signals possessing different frequencies in order to raise the power output of one of the signals to levels well beyond what the maximum output would have been had the amplifier been illuminated with just a single frequency beam.

Regardless of the particular experimental implementation of this invention there are two parameters which are key components of the design that need to be controlled in order to obtain power enhancement of one of the signal laser beams. These two parameters are the power ratios among the seed signals and the wavelength or equivalently frequency separations. Prior to this invention the interplay of these parameters was not understood and in fact the scientific literature taught that no power enhancement can be obtained in the output power of any one of the signal lasers. In our design the wavelength separation is approximately 10 nm or greater and the ratio of the input seed powers is skewed substantially. Furthermore the skew in the power ratio is such that the signal light that provides the greatest amplifier output has the lowest seed power input. Since the principle objective of this invention is to generate enhanced narrow linewidth power in only one of the tones the signal light with the highest power input and therefore lowest power output need not possess narrow linewidth. In fact the use of a broad line width input in one of the signals can lead to better power enhancement of the narrow line width output as will be illustrated in Example 4 .

The above discussion will be more obvious following the reasoning presented henceforth. We restrict our analysis to two seed beams coupled into the fiber amplifier. But those artisans in the field will recognize that our invention can be implemented using more than two seed beams. It is well known in the art that each laser beam experiences gain or loss due to interaction with the gain medium and that each laser light generates its own Stokes light which travels in the opposite direction. Starting with Maxwell s equations and using standard derivation procedures used in the field of nonlinear optics we obtain the following two equations that describe the spatial evolution of the intensities of the two signals 

Where dand dare the diameters of the core and cladding regions respectively. The two Stokes waves are initiated from noise and travel in the backward direction. Stokes gain is obtained through SBS scattering and laser gain. The evolution of the Stokes intensities is given by 

It is well known in the art that the emission and absorption cross sections for rare earth doped silica are different for different frequencies wavelengths . These cross sections have been extensively studied and their values are well documented. As an example for Yb doped silica the emission and absorption cross sections at 1070 nm are approximately 25 and 60 less than those at 1050 nm light respectively.

Practical fiber amplifiers are typically pumped at frequencies possessing high absorption cross sections. Referring to Equations 2 and 3 the laser gain experienced by the two seed frequencies will be different. For a co propagating pump configuration the upper level population density N is relatively high in the proximity of the input end of the fiber and the signal with the higher emission cross section experiences the greatest gain. For simplicity in presenting our argument we will refer to this signal as signal and the other signal as signal . If pumping power is high and the input power of signal was significantly larger than that of signal the former is amplified to its maximum value before these signals have propagated to the midpoint of the fiber. This power value is much higher than that of signal at that point of the fiber. Due to significant absorption of the pump light the population inversion beyond that point is such that signal will become attenuated. Equation 3 indicates that occurs when N N. However if the absorption cross section of signal is much smaller than that of signal the former will continue to experience laser gain leading to a power transfer from both signal and the pump light and into signal . The reduction to in the Stokes light is due to the suppressed amplification of signal in a significant portion of the fiber as can be inferred from Equations 8 and 9 .

The following examples will make those practicing the art appreciate the design parameters needed to implement this invention. The design was run using a fully developed simulation system that extends beyond the simplified equations discussed above.

Example 1 A 6.5 m Yb doped fiber with a core mode field diameter MFD of 25 m and an inner cladding MFD of 400 m. The dopant level in the core is 1.2 10 m. The amplifier is seeded with narrow linewidth 

Example 2 A 20 m Er doped fiber with a core mode field diameter MFD of 5 m and an inner cladding MFD of 10 m. The dopant level in the core is 7 10 m. The amplifier is seeded with narrow linewidth 

Example 3 A 6.5 m Yb doped fiber with a core mode field diameter MFD of 10 m and an inner cladding MFD of 125 m. The dopant level in the core is 1.2 10 m. The amplifier is seeded with narrow linewidth 1041 nm and narrow linewidth 

Example 4 A 6.5 m Yb doped fiber with a core mode field diameter MFD of 25 m and an inner cladding MFD of 400 m. The dopant level in the core is 1.2 10 m. The amplifier is seeded with broad line width approximately 400 MHz 1041 nm beam at an input power of 5 W and narrow line width 

