---

title: Polarimetric synthetic aperture radar signature detector
abstract: A method is provided for processing an acquired polarimetric synthetic aperture radar (SAR) image of a region to identify a candidate pixel that correlates to a target representation. The polarimetric SAR image is composed of a plurality of pixels, and the candidate pixel corresponds to a position in the region that contains a candidate object. The process includes deconstructing J parameter components each sample, obtaining acquired values for the image from select parameter components, acquiring reference values that characterize said parameter components for the target representation, determining distance values each reference value and each acquired value, comparing the distance values against a classification criterion to determine whether the candidate pixel conforms to the target representative. The process may further include extracting N sub-apertures from the polarimetric SAR image, and combining the distance values for the sub-apertures together to obtain distance summations for comparison. The process may additionally include multiplying the distance summations with their corresponding weighting factors to obtain weighted results and combining these to produce a weighted log-likelihood function that identifies whether the pixel conforms to the target. Determining a difference may further include subtracting reference values from their respective acquired values to respectively obtain set of differences, assigning normalized defaults to the differences in response to the difference having a specified relation to parameter thresholds, and otherwise normalizing the difference, and determining natural logs of unity minus said each difference to obtain their distance values.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08125370&OS=08125370&RS=08125370
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08125370
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080331
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 the benefit of priority from provisional application 60 925 906 with a filing date of Apr. 16 2007 is claimed for this non provisional application.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to polarimetric synthetic aperture radar SAR . In particular this invention enables accurate detection and monitoring of objects with specific sizes and shapes across a wide area imaged by a polarimetric SAR platform.

SAR is a coherent microwave imaging radar system with day night and all weather capabilities. SAR systems provide high resolution imagery over wide areas under conditions of poor visibility which make them useful in target detection tracking and monitoring applications. SAR systems can collect data in three modes strip map mode i.e. antenna pointed in a fixed direction relative to the flight path spot light mode i.e. antenna maneuvered during data collection to radiate only a desired area of terrain or scan mode i.e. antenna maneuvered during data collection to radiate a desired swath at any arbitrary angle relative to the flight path . Also SAR systems can be used in the interferometric mode to obtain high resolution digital terrain elevation information over the imaged area. SAR systems can be installed on airborne and or satellite platforms.

A polarimetric SAR system transmits and receives pulses with both horizontal vertical polarizations. Polarimetric SAR imagery consists of two three or four independent channels of complex data amplitude plus phase consisting of HH Horizontal transmit Horizontal receive HV Horizontal transmit Vertical receive VV Vertical transmit Vertical receive and VH Vertical transmit Horizontal receive . For a fully polarimetric or quad polarization SAR system four channels all four combinations HH HV VV and VH are employed. In the case of three channels either VH or HV is dropped. Two channel systems exist where there is one transmit polarization and dual receive channels HH and HV combination or VV and VH combination . The complex 2 2 polarimetric scattering matrix of each individual source of radiation scatter or scatterer is represented by the returns from all four channels HH HV VH VV. The scatterer response is reciprocal if and only if the condition HV VH holds.

One conventional method for utilizing the extra information in polarimetric SAR produces a false color image in which each pixel has a red green blue rgb value based on the HH HV and VV amplitudes at that pixel. This method ignores the phase information contained in the polarimetric SAR data and has some limited utility in classifying ground cover over large areas. The typical approach to exploiting the polarimetric SAR data applies a decomposition transformation to the three or four complex i.e. real plus imaginary numbers associated with each pixel in the complex SAR image s . Standard decompositions include Huynen Freeman Durdin Cameron Touzi Krograger and Cloude used by the technical community with proponents for each. These apply a non linear transformation to the complex numbers associated with a pixel and classifying the result as one of a small number of basic scattering center types. For example the Cameron decomposition classifies all symmetric scatterers i.e. scatterers that have an axis of symmetry in the plane orthogonal to the radar s line of sight as either trihedral dihedral cylinder narrow diplane dipole or quarter wave.

For all of the standard decomposition approaches each pixel gets classified as one of the scattering types defined by the decomposition used. However no conventional mechanism is available to determine the validity of the classification. In most cases there are multiple scattering centers in the resolution cell e.g. pixel and the classification is performed based on the combined return from the multiple scattering centers irrespective of the actual shape of any of the scattering centers in the resolution cell pixel. This in turn leads to an unacceptably high false alarm rate when trying to detect any specific objects.

Independent of polarimetric SAR a well known technique is to convert a full resolution SAR image into a sequence of lower resolution sub aperture images that can be displayed as a short movie loop. This sequence looping has provides a visual cue to stationary scattering centers as well as speckle phenomena and non stationary scattering centers. This has significantly aided manual analysis of single polarization SAR images but has not resulted in any significant automated analysis methods to date. Sub apertures can be formed in either the fast time swath range or slow time cross range azimuth dimensions. Another well known technique incoherently averages sub aperture images for a single polarization to produce a multi look image having reduced speckle i.e. the graininess associated with SAR imagery .

Conventional target identification techniques using SAR images yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide procedures for identifying a candidate pixel in a polarimetric SAR image composed of pixels for a region that correlates to a target representation.

Various exemplary embodiments extract N sub apertures from the polarimetric SAR image derive J parameter components from each sub aperture obtain acquired values for that sub aperture from select parameter components acquire reference values that characterize the parameter components for the target representation determine distance values between the reference and acquired values combine the distance values d for the sub apertures together to obtain distance summations compare the distance summations against a classification criterion to determine whether the candidate pixel conforms to the target representation or target signature.

Distance values d may be determined by subtracting reference values from their respective acquired values adjusting the resulting differences D to fall in the range 0 1 in response to the difference having a specified relation to parameter thresholds and finally computing the natural logs of unity minus each difference i.e. In 1 D . The process may further multiply the distance summations d with their corresponding weighting factors w to obtain weighted results and combine these to produce a weighted log likelihood function Lthat identifies whether the pixel conforms to the target.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of various exemplary embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which various exemplary embodiments may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Various exemplary embodiments provide capability to detect and monitor objects with specific sizes and shapes in polarimetric Synthetic Aperture Radar SAR imagery. This enables screening of large geographic areas for specific objects of interest and monitoring the presence of those objects over time. Various exemplary embodiments provide an enhanced detection capability while simultaneously reducing the false alarm rate by many orders of magnitude. Whereas the conventional techniques allow the classification of scattering centers by shape exemplary embodiments estimate the size as well as the shape of these scatterers.

I. SAR Description Beginning with a simplified description of SAR data collection geometry the examples described herein relate to an airborne SAR system. show cross range or travel direction and slant range or lateral views respectively of the exemplary airborne configuration with a side looking SAR equipped platform e.g. aircraft collecting data over a terrain e.g. ground in the strip map mode. shows the cross range or azimuth viewing angles and as the SAR platform travels forward from first to second positions to the distance traveled forming a synthetic aperture i.e. length . Intersection of the either viewing angle or sometimes referred to as antenna beam width with the ground yields the cross range or azimuth extent along the ground . The synthetic aperture corresponds to the distance the SAR platform covers during the period in which a target or scatterer can be observed from the forward extent of the azimuth view angle on the platform s approach to the aft extent of the azimuth view angle upon its departure. This longer synthetic aperture enables the SAR to achieve a much finer cross range resolution than is available from a smaller physical antenna.

SAR determines slant range from the platform to the target by measuring the round trip time from a first event when the platform transmits a pulse to the target to a second event when the pulse returns from the target back to the platform i.e. the round trip pulse propagation time . As with other types of radar systems the SAR range resolution is a function of the transmitted pulse width. A balancing trade off may be considered and implemented between achieving finer range resolution by transmitting a shorter duration pulse and a high signal to noise SNR ratio for enhancing target detectability by transmitting a longer duration pulse. A matched filter receiver with a proper transmit waveform e.g. chirped pulse enables both high range resolution and high SNR to be achieved by employing pulse compression techniques to decouple range resolution from the transmitted pulse length. For this case the range resolution only depends on the frequency bandwidth of the transmitted pulse making possible the use of longer duration higher energy pulses to achieve high SNR while achieving finer range resolution by increasing the frequency bandwidth.

SAR system may be distinguished from other radar systems by SAR s ability to accomplish much finer cross range or azimuth resolution. Fine azimuth resolution with a physical antenna necessitates extending antenna length in the azimuth direction to often impractical dimensions. The SAR system synthesizes a large antenna length in the azimuth direction by moving the platform with respect to the target . The along track motion or flight path trajectory of the platform combined with a relatively large antenna beam width can record a large number of radar returns from each target on the ground while passing through the antenna aperture on the platform . The large synthetic aperture thus forms along the platform s trajectory whose length is determined by the along track separation of the points at which the target may be acquired and then lost.

Targets at different azimuth positions produce echoes or returns at different Doppler frequencies. Just as the measured round trip time of the pulse traveling from the platform to the target and back determines the target s position in the slant range direction the Doppler frequency shift of the returned signal determines the cross range or azimuth position of the target . As the target passes through the synthetic aperture the large number of radar returns from each target on the ground are collected by coherent in phase and in quadrature demodulation to preserve their relative phases. These returns may be processed into an image by individually adjusting their phases and adding them coherently in a fashion mathematically similar to that used to focus data from an array antenna. This process may produce a two dimensional i.e. slant range and azimuth SAR image consisting of pixels having values with complex quantities to denote both magnitude and phase.

II. SAR Image Processing show images relating to the transformation of SAR raw data to a resolvable i.e. viewable image. These images were collected in July 1994 over Half Moon Bay Calif. by the NASA JPL airborne Synthetic Aperture Radar system AIRSAR. show complex i.e. amplitude and phase L band HH SAR images under progressive processing. shows an intensity image for raw SAR data with orthogonal image axis vectors slant range and cross range or azimuth or flight path in this case . The results of the two main stages of SAR raw data processing namely range compression and azimuth compression are shown in . The slant range and azimuth directions are also shown in these figures. shows an intensity image produced by range compression of the complex SAR raw data. shows an intensity image with additional azimuth compression of the complex range compressed SAR data. An outlined rectangle is highlighted as enlarged in corner image to provide detail of the pixel return from an 8 ft triangular trihedral corner reflector placed at the Half Moon Bay airport as a calibration device.

Other stages in raw data processing may also be introduced for motion compensation and auto focusing which improve the quality of processed images by removing blurring due to motion and other effects. The output of a full aperture SAR raw data processor may be a complex SAR image generally referred to as the Single Look Complex SLC image. The next step after processing the data in all four polarimetric channels i.e. HH HV VH and VV into SLCs may be to accurately register them and then perform polarimetric calibration i.e. phase calibration cross talk removal amplitude calibration and channel gain imbalance correction to correct for instrumentally induced errors in the phase and amplitude relationships between the polarization channels. Accurate polarimetric registration and calibration is essential in ensuring that the results of polarimetric decomposition reflect the true nature of the scattering target or scatterer.

III. Cameron Polarimetric Decomposition and Classification Polarimetric SAR data may be transformed or decomposed into a new set of observable variables by a variety of techniques. Cameron Coherent Decomposition represents an example of such pixel element transformation to generate a set of observable variables. See W. L. Cameron N. N. Youssef and L. K. Leung Simulated Polarimetric Signatures of Primitive Geometrical Shapes vol. 34 no. 3 pp. 793 803 May 1996. This reference coherently decomposes an arbitrary complex scattering matrix into three mutually orthogonal components consisting of a nonreciprocal component a maximum symmetric component and a minimum symmetric component. Each Cameron decomposition component has representative parameters that are related to the physical properties of the target e.g. scatterer type target orientation thereby providing an advantage. The Cameron decomposition parameters considered in this approach include the Symmetric Scatterer Type denoted by z Maximum Symmetric Normalized Amplitude denoted by a Symmetry Angle denoted by tau or Reciprocity Angle denoted by theta or and Symmetry Weight denoted by s .

The Cameron polarimetric classification technique classifies a symmetric scatterer i.e. a scatterer that has an axis of symmetry in the plane orthogonal to the radar s line of sight as either trihedral dihedral cylinder narrow diplane dipole or quarter wave depending on where its scatterer type value falls within the complex i.e. real and imaginary axes Unit Disc representing the Symmetric Scatterer Space. In this classification scheme the complex Unit Disc is divided into six distinct sub regions with each region representing the six elementary shapes trihedral cylinder dipole narrow diplane dihedral and quarter wave device. A trihedral return or a return signal resulting from an odd number of bounces prevails in the natural world and therefore not indicative of an artificial i.e. man made target artifact. Trihedral corner reflectors three orthogonal plates connected along common edges flat plates and spheres are common examples of objects that produce trihedral returns.

The ideal trihedral return is represented by the complex scatterer type 1 0 in the complex Unit Disc. A dihedral return or a return signal resulting from an even number of bounces is the more prevalent return from artificial objects. An example of a dihedral shape is an object with two relatively flat surfaces of comparable size sharing a single edge at a 90 angle. The ideal dihedral return is represented by the complex scatterer type 1 0 in the complex Unit Disc. A cylinder return representative of curved surfaces resembles a trihedral return but weaker in either the HH or VV component of its return. Similarly a narrow diplane return resembles a dihedral return but weaker in one its component directions. An example of a narrow diplane shape is a dihedral object whose component plates have a smaller width than length or vice versa . The ideal cylinder and ideal narrow diplane returns are represented by the scatterer type values 0 and 0 in the complex Unit Disc respectively. An ideal dipole represented by the scatterer type 0 0 has a return in only one direction either HH or VV but not both. A quarter wave device has a return characterized by a delay represented by a phase shift between its HH and VV components. The ideal quarter wave device return is represented by two equivalent scatterer types 0 i and 0 i in the complex Unit Disc where i 1 . An example of a quarter wave device is a pipe mounted perpendicular to a flat plate.

IV. Deconstruction Approach The process operations for generating Single Look Complex SLC imagery subdividing these images into sub aperture data deconstructing the information into characteristic features and performing signature analysis are described in and supplemental steps that follow. Processing the complex valued SAR image or the SLC in various exemplary embodiments yields a set of sub aperture complex images using conventional SAR processing techniques. Each sub aperture image has lower resolution than the original and corresponds to a different view angle and or frequency range in the chirped pulse. The target resolution of each sub aperture image corresponds to the size of the scattering center for screening. Excess bandwidth is transformed into more sub apertures rather than used for higher resolution. This ensures maximum signal to clutter for the targeted scattering centers.

Polarimetric calibration effectively estimates and removes the effect of each polarimetric channel relative to others and involves phase calibration cross talk removal amplitude calibration and channel gain imbalance correction. Phase calibration corrects for instrument induced errors in the phase relationships between the channels. Cross talk may be caused by imperfections in the radar antenna resulting in impure polarization states for the individual polarization combinations measured directly by the hardware. Amplitude calibration and channel gain imbalance correction are performed using backscatter measurements from known targets to correct for residual amplitude offsets in the various polarization channels and to correct for absolute gain of the radar system.

After the formation of the registered and calibrated SLC images a Sub Aperture Processor shown in greater detail in creates sub aperture complex images for each polarimetric channel using conventional SAR processing techniques. A Polarimetric Decomposition Processor shown in greater detail in receives the sub aperture SLC data to generate a set of independent observables or features for each sub aperture derived from the measurement SAR data A Weighted Maximum Log Likelihood Processor shown in greater detail in receives the independent observables set together with the expected target specific theoretical observable values and their respective non linear distance measure definitions and weights . The Log Likelihood Processor generates a matrix of Candidate Scatterers corresponding to pixel positions in the SAR image along with their likelihood values. Each identified scatterer denotes a target candidate to be further investigated. Scatterers having likelihood values below a pre determined threshold can then be discarded while scatterers with higher likelihood values i.e. those whose signatures approach the signature of the theoretical target of interest can be retained for further analysis.

Various exemplary embodiments use the processed polarimetric complex valued SAR imagery and one of the polarimetric SAR decompositions as a starting point. Each of the decompositions results in a transformation from the complex numbers associated with a pixel i.e. the pixel s four complex valued scattering matrix elements represented by SLC SLC SLC SLC to a new set of variables. Each of these variables is considered to be an independent observable. The approach can utilize any of the polarimetric scattering matrix decomposition techniques to generate a set of physically meaningful and independent parameters observables to use in subsequent stages.

The Decomposition Processor generates a set of Measured Polarimetric SAR Decomposition Data files each containing values for a specific decomposition parameter for all N sub apertures. The set of in this example six independent observables or decomposition parameters derived for each sub aperture i 1 2 . . . N may include the complex valued real and imaginary Symmetric Scatterer Type z Orientation Angle Maximum Symmetric Normalized Amplitude a Symmetric Angle Reciprocity Angle and Symmetry Weight spreferably saved in separate files.

For each scatterer in the SAR image a Signature Analysis and Likelihood Detection Process compares measured data and theoretical target specific data in the input set to generate a likelihood value indicative of resemblance between the analyzed pixel and the specific target of interest. The first step in this Process uses the Weighted Log Likelihood Processor to generate target specific detection metrics or likelihood values for each scatterer in the SAR image. The weighted Log Likelihood Processor includes a Likelihood Generator which determines a likelihood function value and a Maximizing Processor to determine the pixel having the maximum likelihood value.

The Likelihood Generator receives the Measured Radar Data Theoretical Data and Auxiliary Data as inputs and calculates a target specific weighted log likelihood Lfor each offset k between theoretical and measured sub apertures. The Maximizer then selects the maximum among all likelihoods associated with the k offsets calculated for each scatterer and outputs the result into a Maximum Likelihood. Matrix as the scatterer s target specific Detection Metric or L. A target specific threshold operator can subsequently be applied as detection threshold to discard all scatterers with unacceptably low likelihood values. The remaining Detected or Candidate Scatterers with their corresponding Target Specific Likelihood Values then provide the basis for detecting and discriminating the size and or shape of the object or target of interest.

V. Signature Determination Each of the decomposition observables for each of the sub apertures may be treated as an independent observation. Depending on the amount of overlap of the sub apertures this may not be strictly true but nonetheless represents a useful statistical assumption. The signature consists of a weighted log likelihood computation where the likelihood for each observation is based on the observed variable s distance from the theoretical response for the target scattering center type. The distance in each case is a nonlinear function whose parameters are determined through the use of acquired data in order to account for the operational performance of the sensor. Weights i.e. weighting factors for the weighted log likelihood may be determined by the relative importance of the observables.

For the distance function the computed distance imposes a zero difference between the theoretical value of the observable and the expected departure from that value due to system noise and collateral i.e. non target artifacts. As the difference in values increases the distance function typically follows in a monotonic fashion. A simple distance function that satisfies these requirements is called a nonlinear ramp function. For each pixel the weighted log likelihood function may be computed for different sub aperture offsets in order to align the actual response with the theoretical response based on the actual orientation of the scattering center. This enables the response change to be exploited as a function of orientation and produces an estimate of the orientation of the scattering center.

The preference for the offset variable is exemplified by the glint off of a flat plate that occurs for a sensor that is perpendicular thereto. The largest amplitude occurs at broadside and decreases away from broadside in a manner dependent on the size of the plate relative to the wavelength of the radiation used. In a SAR image the aperture can be anything from a few degrees to more than 45 or . The orientation of the plate or more generally the scattering center may not be known priori so multiple offsets may have to be implemented corresponding to different angles away from the aperture center for where the response peaks.

The resultant log likelihood can be compared to a detection threshold to provide simple detections or the log likelihood values can be retained to provide a ranking of detections in a Constant False Alarm Rate CFAR application. For a given scattering center type signatures may be applied based on variations in size and shape thereby providing a viable means to discriminate both the size and shape of an object of interest. The various decompositions provide features that form the basis for discriminating shape while the amplitude falloff provides the basis for discriminating the size of a particular shape. This approach also enables a new type of change detection to be performed. Because the orientation of detected scattering centers may be determined subsequent SAR collections taken from different geometries can be processed and the resultant signature detections can be compared. This type of change detection has much less stringent collection conditions than Coherent Change Detection CCD or Two Color Multi View.

VI. Summary of Advantages The advantages from the various exemplary embodiments described herein include the following 

VII. Exemplary Ideal Dihedral Target Representation Some exemplary results of the approach described herein are presented in this section. The chosen target of interest is a dihedral object or shape that is commonly present in many man made objects. shows an isometric Cartesian illustration of a dihedral on a planar surface . The dihedral comprises a first plate joined at an edge to a second plate with the edge forming a perpendicular angle . The surface is defined by the planar vectors circumflex over x and and a normal vector circumflex over z . An edge vector where the plates join is coplanar with the surface and is depicted in this example as parallel to planar vector . The first plate is angularly tilted from the surface along a plate vector circumflex over n perpendicular to the edge vector . In this example the first and second plates are tilted from the surface by an angle of 45 . Radar energy may be directed towards the surface and the dihedral plates along a transmission vector circumflex over k along the negative vertical or circumflex over z direction . This configuration referred to as the broadside setup ensures maximum radar return from the dihedral object. In terms of the radar look angles as specified by the azimuth and elevation angles the broadside set up in this example has an azimuth angle of 0 zero and an elevation angle of 45 . illustrates an isometric representation of a dipole visualization of an ideal dihedral. The dihedral can be represented by two dipoles separated by a distance r 4 . This representation is based decomposing the response from a horizontally oriented symmetric scatterer as a combination of the responses of two non interacting frequency independent orthogonal dipoles with variable amplitudes and phases. See W. L. Cameron and Houra Rais Conservation Polarimetric Scatterers and their Role in Incorrect Extensions of the Cameron Decomposition vol. 44 no. 12 pp. 3506 3516 December 2006. For the ideal dihedral both the horizontal and vertical dipoles produce a unit amplitude response with their relative phase response modeled as a radial separation equal to a quarter of the wavelength.

VIII. Exemplary SAR Imagery The approach described herein was applied to the fully polarimetric L band imagery from the NASA JPL Airborne Synthetic Aperture Radar AIRSAR system to detect dihedral and trihedral targets. Mounted on a DC 8 aircraft operated out of NASA Dryden Flight Research Center the fully polarimetric i.e. quad channels HH HV VH VV AIRSAR system was operating in the strip map mode at a transmission frequency centered at 1280 MHz with a bandwidth of 80 MHz. The azimuth beam width was about 6 . This collection produced full resolution imagery at all four polarizations with a slant range resolution of about 1.67 meters and an azimuth resolution of about one meter. The dihedral and trihedral detectors are described subsequently in Section XI.

By contrast illustrates the SAR image marked with crosses indicating the positions of image pixels identified by the signature method described herein as having strong and slightly weaker dihedral characteristics. A total number of 106 candidate pixels are identified in this signature case a significant improvement to the 5484 detections made by the Cameron classification method. This result also demonstrates the extremely low false alarm rates that can be achieved using the signature method described herein. The upper left portion of the image features a first dash rectangular region within which are shown candidate dihedral returns from a salvaged single engine aircraft tail part of a simulated aircraft crash site set up and other objects of various sizes and shapes exhibiting dihedral like characteristics. The right portion of the image features a second dash rectangular region including ideal test dihedrals of the form shown in set up for maximum radar return. Image also includes candidate dihedral returns from a pair of abreast i.e. side by side 55 gallon drums .

IX. Exemplary Parameter Plots show graphs of characteristic responses for an ideal dihedral as function of azimuth angle and or dihedral edge size. The dihedral edge size is provided as fractional or whole increments of the wavelength and the azimuth angle corresponds to the angle away from broadside i.e. azimuth angle 0 or as shown in the angle away from circumflex over k negative vertical or circumflex over z direction in the plane defined by circumflex over x and circumflex over z axes. The data sets used for these plots were generated using full wave electromagnetic simulations of a dihedral s complex phase and amplitude backscattering response to a 300 MHz transmitted plane wave i.e. wavelength 1 meter as function of dihedral edge size and azimuth angle.

X. Decomposition Observables and Features Exemplary implementations of the signature approach are described in Sections XI XII and XIII. A plurality of N overlapping sub aperture SAR images and their corresponding Cameron decomposition data sets are acquired. This example assumes 50 overlap between adjacent sub apertures. Thus for a given pixel an observation space may consist of N ordered Cameron feature sets with each set consisting of the following parameter list z a s where subscript Q represents acquired data measured or simulated and subscript counts sub apertures from 1 to N. In the exemplary embodiments described herein Cameron s symmetric scatterer Orientation Angle 2 2 measured relative to radar s line of sight is presently not used as an observable for the maximum log likelihood detectors. In addition for the exemplary embodiments the Symmetric Scatterer Type zcounts as two parameters with its real Re and imaginary Im components considered as separate parameters.

Parameters for data acquired for each pixel are defined such that zis Symmetric Scatterer Type having a complex value ais maximum symmetric normalized amplitude is symmetry angle is reciprocity angle and sis symmetry weight. The complex valued Symmetric Scatterer Type can be expressed as z Re z Im z and z 1. The Maximum Symmetric Normalized Amplitude has the limits a 0 1 where max a 1. The symmetry angle has limits 0 4 in which 0 represents a symmetric scatterer and 4 represents an asymmetric scatterer. The reciprocity angle has limits 0 2 where 0 represents a scatter that strictly obeys the reciprocity principle and 2 represents a scatterer that violates the reciprocity principle. The symmetry weight srepresents the ratio of the magnitude of the symmetric component of the sum of to the magnitude of all components of the scattering matrix. Thus the shown feature list for acquired SAR data includes a plurality of J parameters where J 6 for each sub aperture i Re z Im z a s. Similarly each log likelihood detector as described in Section XI is defined as having M sub apertures or components with each sub aperture consisting of the same six Cameron decomposition feature parameters listed above z a s where subscript R represents a specific target and subscript j counts detector sub apertures from 1 to M.

Preferably all detectors have their values set at 15 values set at 9 and s values set at 0.5. This is because sub aperture pixels that have 15 or s 0.5 are not considered to be adequate symmetric scatterers and hence are assigned very small likelihood values. Moreover sub aperture pixels that have 15 are not considered to be reciprocal scatterers and hence are also assigned very small likelihood values.

XI. Shape Specific Log Likelihood Detectors An exemplary implementation of Weighted Log Likelihood Detectors for four elementary shapes edge glint dihedral trihedral and quarter wave device is described in the following paragraphs. Note that this implementation was originally designed for one particular SAR system the NASA JPL Airborne Synthetic Aperture Radar AIRSAR system and uses particularly the Cameron decomposition although other methods may be used instead . Because the AIRSAR system had a small bandwidth this implementation does not include the size discrimination component except in the case of a Dihedral Detector described subsequently.

The Edge Glint Detector e.g. for a wing boundary is assumed to exhibit the following characteristics 1 Maximum Symmetric Normalized Amplitude profile a shows the brightest return occurring over one sub aperture or at most two adjacent sub apertures with rapid falloff over other sub apertures and 2 Symmetric Scatterer Type profile z sets the Symmetric Scatterer Type of the brightest sub aperture return to the complex value 0.25 0.0 a value halfway between the Cameron Symmetric Scatterer Type values of an ideal dipole and an ideal Cylinder and sets the Symmetric Scatterer Type values of all other sub aperture returns to Not Classifiable NC or Unusable Invalid i.e. their returns are assumed to be dominated by clutter . This detector can be implemented using an odd number of sub apertures with symmetry about the middle sub aperture i.e. j M 2 1 which may be assigned the brightest return or alternatively using an even number of sub apertures with symmetry about the boundary joining the two middle sub apertures i.e. j M 2 and M 2 1 . Values for a three sub aperture i.e. M 3 and a four sub aperture i.e. M 4 implementations of an Edge Glint Detector are listed. For each pixel the implementation providing the higher likelihood value is selected 

with notable symmetry between the first and last components and between the second and next to last components.

The Dihedral Detector exhibits the following characteristics 1 Maximum Symmetric Normalized Amplitude profile a shows the brightest return occurring at broadside with gradual falloff over other sub apertures and 2 Symmetric Scatterer Type profile z sets the Symmetric Scatterer Type value of the return at broadside equal to the Symmetric Scatterer Type of an ideal Dihedral i.e. 1.0 0.0 tending to the Symmetric Scatterer Type of a Narrow Diplane i.e. 0.5 0.0 for sub apertures that are far enough from broadside. Similar to the Edge Glint Detector the Dihedral Detector can be implemented using an odd number of sub apertures with symmetry about the middle sub aperture i.e. j M 2 1 which may be assigned the brightest return or alternatively using an even number of sub apertures with symmetry about the boundary joining the two middle sub apertures i.e. j M 2 and M 2 1 . Four sub aperture i.e. M 4 and five sub aperture i.e. M 5 implementations of a Dihedral Detector are listed. For each pixel the implementation providing the higher likelihood value is selected 

again with similar component symmetry patterns as for the Edge Glint Detector. Initial tests on some SAR images showed that the 4 component Dihedral Detector performed slightly better than its 5 component version. However this result is not yet conclusive.

The Trihedral Detector exhibits the following characteristics 1 Maximum Symmetric Normalized Amplitude profile a shows invariant equal brightness for returns over all sub apertures and 2 Symmetric Scatterer Type profile z sets the Symmetric Scatterer Type value of each sub aperture to the Symmetric Scatterer Type of an ideal Trihedral 1.0 0.0 . This representation of the Trihedral Detector then assumes a uniform response over all sub apertures. For each pixel the implementation providing the higher likelihood value is selected 

The Quarter Wave Detector exhibits the following characteristics 1 Maximum Symmetric Normalized Amplitude profile a shows invariant or equal brightness for returns over all sub apertures and 2 Symmetric Scatterer Type profile z sets the Symmetric Scatterer Type value of each sub aperture to the value of either of the two equivalent representations of an ideal Quarter Wave. This representation of the Quarter Wave Detector assumes a uniform response over all sub apertures. For each pixel the implementation providing the higher likelihood value is selected 

XII. Likelihood Determination A detector for a specific Target R with M components or sub apertures z a s and pixel data over the N sub apertures from an SAR image z a s where the following sequence of log likelihood estimates from the set of can be concatenated to determine a log likelihood value of whether the pixel in the SAR image corresponds to the target characteristics 

Weights and distance measure definitions and their associated thresholds can vary based on target characteristics and the quality and statistics of the acquired data. Weights determine the sensitivity to given observables and should be set such that as much of the information as possible is used without allowing noisier observables to corrupt likelihood calculations. Distance measure thresholds may be set using both theoretical and acquired data and non linear distance measure definitions allow the phase noise in the acquired data to be taken into account.

The distance measure d of each observable feature in this exemplary implementation is derived for each detector sub aperture j 1 . . . M as follows 1 find the absolute value of the difference between the acquired measured or simulated data subscript Q and the specific target specific detector data subscript R 2 compare the calculated absolute difference or the acquired data directly to a pre determined threshold to generate an interim distance measure D with values in the range 0 1 and 3 finally compute the distance measure d as ln 1 D where ln 0 is assigned a very small negative value instead of negative infinity . The following paragraphs describe one way of defining distance measures for the features or observables in this exemplary implementation.

The Cameron Symmetric Scatterer Type Distance Measure can be characterized in terms of its real and imaginary components. Symmetric scatterer type zrepresents measured or simulated data and zrepresents detector values. The Real Component is represented by 

Given a sub aperture offset k and a detector for a specific target R the likelihood for each pixel in the SAR image Lis calculated as stated beginning at Section XII as follows 1 for each detector sub aperture j 1 . . . M a distance measure is calculated for each feature or observable derived from the pixel return 2 weighted log likelihood value for each feature is calculated by summing the computed distance measures for that feature over all detector sub apertures weighted by w and finally 3 the total likelihood for the pixel Lis calculated by summing together the weighted log likelihoods from each feature.

Distance measure definitions and weights can be modified based on target specific considerations and measured simulated data statistics and quality. Also more than one detector f may be defined for a particular target R. The maximum weighted log likelihood for a specific target R may then be determined as L maxL where f is the detector for target R and k is sub aperture offset. The counters are denoted as f 1 2 . . . F where F is the total number of detectors used for detecting a specific target R and k 1 . . . M N 1 where M N 1 denotes the total number of detector offsets. The maximum likelihood value Lis computed for each pixel in the SAR image and represents a measure of how well a pixel s signature or the return from the dominant scatterer contained in the pixel conforms to the signature of the specific target of interest. The Lvalues may then be compared to a target specific lower bound detection threshold to discard pixels scatterers with low likelihood values and obtain a list of candidate scatterers whose higher likelyhood values imply that their signatures closely match the signature of the target of interest.

XIII. Exemplary Dihedral Detector Plots with Size Discrimination Cameron Decomposition Parameter Profiles and their corresponding distance measure definitions for an ideal dihedral are provided in as functions of Azimuth Angle and dihedral edge size. These parameters show real and imaginary components of symmetric scatterer type z maximum symmetric normalized amplitude a symmetry angle reciprocity angle and symmetry weight s. As in previous plots the dihedral edge size is provided as fractional or whole increments of the wavelength and the azimuth angle corresponds to the angle away from broadside i.e. azimuth angle 0 or as shown in the angle away from circumflex over k negative vertical or circumflex over z direction in the plane defined by circumflex over x and circumflex over z axes. The data sets used for these plots were generated using full wave electromagnetic simulations of a dihedral s complex phase and magnitude backscattering response to a 300 MHz transmitted plane wave i.e. wavelength 1 meter as function of the dihedral s edge size and azimuth angle.

XIV. Single Scattering Center Phase History Reconstruction A key aspect of the Polarimetric SAR signatures approach described herein is to use the change in the observables features normally derived using a polarimetric decomposition technique across the chirp or range and or across the synthetic aperture or cross range azimuth in the detection process. As explained via the exemplary embodiments herein one method of implementing this approach is to form a sequence of complex sub aperture images in range and or cross range from the Single Look Complex SLC image of each polarimetric SAR channel and compute the decomposition observables features separately for each sub aperture image. This sub aperture based method has the advantage of being expedient e.g. fast and easy to implement but has two main disadvantages that in some cases may affect the ability to detect and discriminate signatures. The first disadvantage involves trading spatial domain resolution for time domain resolution. In other words spatial domain resolution is sacrificed in the process of obtaining additional information about the temporal changes in the signal. As an example a complex image with one meter cross range resolution divided into four sub apertures with no spectral overlap in the frequency domain yields four lower resolution sub aperture images each having a cross range resolution of four meters. To the extent that bandwidth or synthetic aperture can be spared the lower spatial resolution of the sub aperture images however might not actually present a disadvantage. The second disadvantage is that sub aperture processing results in a very coarse temporal sampling of the observables or features used in signature detections as well as in the averaging of the observable values.

Although these disadvantages do not prevent the useful processing of polarimetric SAR data into signature detections the desire to overcome these limitations has led to the development of an improved method for extracting signatures as described herein. This improved method is useful upon making a potential detection so the sub aperture based signatures approach can serve as a pre screener with somewhat looser detection settings than before . With this potential detection a variation of Rihaczek s approach described below may be employed to analyze the radar return signals in manners unique to conventional treatments.

The exemplary steps include performing the following steps for each of the polarimetric SAR Single Look Complex images i.e. SLC SLC SLC SLCor the available subset 

 ii Reduce the dimensions of the frequency domain image as required to remove any zero padding typically about 20 to meet the Nyquist requirement 

 v Extract one dimensional cuts in range and cross range through each potential signature detection for analysis. The cuts may preferably be 16 pixels long approximately centered on the peak of interest.

 vi On each side of the peak of interest in the one dimensional cut find the inflection points and zero every bin outside the inflection points 

 vii Fourier Transform the result zero pad by a factor of eight and inverse Fourier Transform producing an interpolated time domain version of the original peak 

 viii Add a factor of eight zero padding to the result of step vi and Fourier Transform producing an interpolated frequency domain representation of the peak of interest 

 ix Divide the result of step viii by the window function applied earlier step iii to obtain a close approximation to the actual phase history of the scattering center across the synthetic aperture for a cut in cross range or across the chirp for a cut in range .

The graphs in illustrate the expected amplitude response of an ideal dihedral in both time and frequency domains at different stages of performing steps i through ix . The data samples for these plots were synthetically generated using full wave electromagnetic simulations which recorded the complex phase and magnitude backscattering response of an ideal dihedral with an edge size equal to one meter positioned at broadside with respect to the radar transmitter receiver e.g. in a monostatic system for a transmission frequency interval ranging from linearly from 200 to 450 MHz i.e. a frequency ramp or chirp . The line of sight distance between the dihedral and the radar was set at 100 meters to ensure a far range response and the radiated signal was a plane wave. The generated data points hence represent the frequency domain response of the dihedral to a chirp or more precisely to a Linear Frequency Modulated FM Chirp waveform after the application of range compression in the Mie region a region in which the object size in this case the dihedral s edge size is comparable to the radar wavelength presents a graph of the simulation results which is an example of the expected response in step ii . The abscissa represents frequencies in cycles per second Hz while the ordinate represents amplitudes. Plotted curve represents an ideal dihedral s HH amplitude response in the frequency domain to a linear FM chirp waveform after range compression. The amplitude response of the dihedral is non stationary across the chirp in this case and this variation can be exploited in the signature method described herein to discriminate the object s shape and size.

As a further observation the dihedral response shown in represents an example of a scattering center whose response is non stationary in phase and in amplitude across the chirp. Variations in both the amplitude and phase responses defocus the return causing the signal to progressively expand i.e. spread out in the spatial domain image with increasing non stationary. The amplitude variation observed in graph across the chirp along exemplifies the raw signal being utilized by the detectors in the signature method described herein. The response curve can be adequately sampled to provide the signature detector with a more accurate representation of the dihedral s amplitude response in time than can be obtained using sub aperture processing.

An example of the expected response in step iii is shown in . This figure presents a graph showing the effect of applying a Hanning Window to the amplitude response curve shown in . The abscissa represents frequencies in Hz while the ordinate represents Hanning windowed amplitudes. Curve represents the Hanning windowed HH amplitude response of an ideal dihedral in the frequency domain. An example of an expected response in step i is shown in . This figure shows a spatial or time domain amplitude response graph which was derived by inverse Fourier transforming the response curve shown in . The abscissa represents time bins while the ordinate represents amplitudes. Curve then represents the ideal dihedral s HH amplitude response in the spatial domain to a linear FM chirp waveform after range compression.

An example of an expected response in step iv is shown in . In this case step v is also included as the dihedral results are derived only at broadside i.e. at azimuth angle of zero only or one cross range cut . shows a spatial domain amplitude response graph where the abscissa represents time bins while the ordinate represents amplitudes. Note that the range of the abscissa has been narrowed in this figure to show the response curves in more detail. Curve is equivalent to curve in included in this figure for comparison purposes. Curve derived by inverse Fourier transforming the response curve shown in represents the Hanning windowed HH amplitude response of an ideal dihedral in the spatial domain. Comparing response curves and the application of a Hanning window in the frequency domain results in the widening of the main lobe and lowering the peak of the amplitude response in the spatial domain.

Performing steps vi viii and ix on response curve the original frequency domain amplitude response can be closely reconstituted without loss of spatial resolution. shows a graph comparing the reconstituted and original frequency plots. The abscissa represents frequencies in Hz while the ordinate represents amplitudes. Curve is the original frequency spectrum equivalent to curve in included in this plot for comparison purposes. Curve is the reconstituted spectrum following the described approach. A comparison of curves and reveals that curve presents a useful estimate of the original frequency response. This important result shows the possibility of recovery of interpolated versions of responses across the chirp and or synthetic aperture using this reconstruction method without any loss in spatial domain resolution as would be the case with sub aperture processing. Furthermore as opposed to the coarse sampling achieved using sub aperture processing the variations in the amplitude response shown in graph in can be reasonably sampled at twenty or more locations to provide a more accurate and refined characterization of the response in time for use in the signature approach as explained via the exemplary embodiments. This level of sampling can be obtained without degrading spatial resolution and thereby adversely influencing the results.

XV. Implications A sub aperture image may be formed by extracting a complex image Fourier transforming the image zeroing all but a subset of the spectrum and inverse Fourier transforming the result. However the spectrum cannot then be used to recover signature information because the spectrum is a linear superposition of all the returns from all the scattering centers in the original complex image. By operating preferably in the image domain the amplitude and phase information can be recovered from the scattering center of interest. The approach of A. W. Rihaczek in Artech House 1996 provides only an estimate of the frequency response of the scattering center of interest. However performing a Fourier transform on a complex SAR image with increasing range in the down direction yields vertical frequency bins that correspond to the wavenumber responses to the different frequencies contained in the chirp. By contrast the horizontal bins contain the wavenumber responses to the different azimuths sampled by the individual pulses across the synthetic aperture. In the case of a single scattering center applying Rihaczek s approach results in the wavenumber responses of the scattering center as a function of azimuth and or chirp frequency. Most importantly these responses can be sampled as densely i.e. often within a sampling interval as desired. Each frequency bin corresponds to the plane wave response of the scattering center. In the case of a range cut the response is integrated over azimuths while in the case of a cross range cut the response is integrated over the chirp frequencies. The signature approach as explained via the exemplary embodiments uses the change in the polarimetric amplitudes and phases across the synthetic aperture and the chirp as well. This reconstruction approach allows recovery of accurate estimates of the plane wave responses of the scattering center as a function of the azimuth and or chirp frequency as illustrated in .

XVI. Limitations and Information Theory The accurate recovery of the plane wave responses is based on separation of the response peak of the desired scattering center from the signal produced by other scattering centers. The signatures approach described via the exemplary embodiments herein prefers that the scattering center of interest be the dominant source of return energy in the resolution cell. The reconstruction approach allows the use of full resolution rather than reduced resolution as is the case with the sub aperture approach where the probability of having multiple scattering centers within a resolution cell is much higher.

To address the information content of this reconstruction approach a pure point response can be used as a limiting example representing a sin c function in the original complex image. As an aside a normalized sin c function for digital signal processing and communication theory may be expressed as

XVII. Signature Derivation The amplitude and phase of a scatterer s response by themselves provide only minimal information as exemplified by the pure point response. However variations of the amplitude and phase of the response across the synthetic aperture and or chirp drive the signature detectors. For example for a pure i.e. idealized point target the signature information derives from the knowledge that both the amplitude and phase of the response remain constant across the synthetic aperture whereas for the dihedral target the signature information derives from the observed variations in both amplitude and or phase of the response across the chirp as in . Thus both the change and its absence in the responses across the chirp and or synthetic aperture have the necessary information content to identify imaged candidates that correspond to a target scatterer. The signature method is driven by the quality of characterizing the variations in amplitude and phase responses with minimal or no loss in spatial resolution. Thus the actual information content arises from adequate sampling of phase and amplitude information at multiple azimuth bins and using the sampled values in the signature analysis process. The Single Scattering Center Phase History Reconstruction provides a method for sampling responses at a high level across the synthetic aperture and or the chirp and to recover interpolated versions of these responses without degrading spatial resolution and adversely influencing target detection and discrimination.

The signature approach described herein can be used with any of the polarimetric decomposition techniques. The theoretical responses can sometimes be derived and alternatively be determined with computational electromagnetic codes. The size and number of the sub apertures can be chosen based on the bandwidth of the SAR system and the size of the desired objects to be detected and classified. The parameters in the distance functions used in the weighted log likelihood function can be determined using collected data or estimated using a basic knowledge of SAR systems. These embodiments can preferably be used with virtually any two three or four channel polarimetric SAR and can be adapted to both high and low resolution bandwidth systems.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

