---

title: Leveraging communications to identify social network friends
abstract: A method for determining whether to recommend a social relationship between a social network member and another party is disclosed. Electronic communication activity of the social network member and the other party is monitored. Based on a number of characteristics of the communication, a determination is made as to whether to recommend the party to the member as a social network friend. The characteristics can include how the parties communicate—whether through email, instant messaging and/or voice communication, whether the parties send direct email messages to each other, whether they communicate as part of a group email message, the location of each parties address in the email message and whether communication includes sharing activity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08010602&OS=08010602&RS=08010602
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08010602
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080828
---
Electronic social networking communication is a popular way for individuals to communicate with one another. Social networking web sites allow users to connect for various personal professional and common interests. Electronic social networking systems are dependent upon users connecting to and identifying other individuals within the social network as friends those individual with whom they are willing to share greater access to personal information than non friends.

Most social networking systems include some mechanism for allowing users to find friends within the social network. One example of such a friend finding mechanism is an e mail search query inviting users to upload addresses search for names or access address books run by popular e mail services after which the system attempts to match the user addresses with other network members. If addressees in the users contact list are not members of the network an opportunity to invite the addressee is provided. Other algorithms identify friends of friends or network members which are connected one s own friends within the social network. The more friends one has within the social network the more powerful the social network becomes.

Communication usage within a service provider s online service environment is leveraged to identify a social network member s potential friends within the social network. Communication activity between a member and other parties is used to determine whether the parties should be recommended to the member for inclusion in a social networking friendship. Members and parties may both be participants of a social network run by the service provider or the second party may not be a participant of the social network. In the case where the second party is not a participant of the social networking service the second party may be invited to join the social networking service based on the communications between the individuals.

A method for determining whether to recommend a social relationship between an electronic social network member and at least one second party is disclosed. Electronic communication activity of the social network member and a second party is monitored. Based on a number of characteristics of the communication a determination is made as to whether to recommend the party to the member as a social network friend.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in the Background.

Technology for leveraging communication usage within a service provider s environment to identify potential friends within a social network is disclosed. Communication activity and in one implementation email communications are used to determine whether parties with whom users or members of the service provider s network communicate should be recommended to them for inclusion in a social networking friendship. Members and parties may both be participants of a social network run by the service provider or the second party may not be a participant of the social network. In the case where the second party is not a participant of the social networking service the second party may be invited to join the social networking service based on the communications between the individuals.

In one example two users who are both members of the social network will communicate via various mechanisms such as e mail instant messaging or Voice Over IP VOIP . Based on a number of communication based characteristics between a member and an addressee a determination can be made whether to recommend elevation of the addressee to friend status. It should be understood that the terms member and second party are for identification purposes only. A second party may initiate a communication event with a member or vice versa. In some communication events there may be a number of parties other than the member.

A service provider offering both a social networking service and communication services has the ability to leverage the communication services for the benefit of the social networking service. Because the service provider has access to the communication activity for the member at step member communication activity with other parties can be monitored. At step using the activity monitoring resulting from step the service provider can determine whether to recommend a social relationship based on communication activities. In one example email communication by social network participants can be monitored and used to suggest friend relationships based on frequency and type of activity. If the system determines that the activity merits recommendation as a friend then the system can recommend friends based on communication activity at step .

The social networking service provided by the web service may include a web blogging service a social bookmarking service a photo sharing service and a news service . The blog service allows users to write personal and social commentary which may be presented to both friends and the public at large. A social bookmarking service allows users to share an interesting web link that the user thinks friends might find interesting. A photo sharing service allows users to share both public and private photos which have been uploaded to the data store with friends and with public. A news service allows users to post status messages which inform their friends of their current activities and planned activities. Users interact with the web service via computers A or B. Computers A and B communicate with for example a presentation server . The presentation server may in one embodiment comprise a web server which provides one or more pages and or web based applications to a web browser executing a browser process on computer A. Alternatively a dedicated communication service client such as in instant messaging or VOIP client may operate on a computer B and communicate with the presentation server or with one of the services provided by the web service directly. Communication with the presentation server may occur via one or more public and private networks such as the Internet.

Also shown as a component of web service is a third party social network service aggregator . A third party service social network service aggregator incorporates information provided by third party social network services . Many social networking services provide application programming interfaces APIs which allow data to be extracted from the social networking service or themselves provide information streams such as for example RSS feeds which allow information to be published from the service and incorporated into other presentation or social networking services. The third party service aggregator can extract information from third party networking services or receive the information feed which may then be presented to the user via the presentation service through the social networking service . This information can also be used by the service provider to in conjunction with friend recommendations as discussed herein.

At step for each communication event at step communication information about the event is extracted. This communication information can include for example the type of communication whether or not it is an instant message voicemail voice communication or e mail the sender of the communication the addressees of the communication whether the communication is direct or indirect including whether members or other parties are in the to field the carbon copy cc field or in the blind carbon copy bcc field the type of communication whether it is a direct communication between individuals or between multiple individuals and the nature of the communication whether the communication is for example an invitation to an event generated by the user directly or generated by an automated event invitation service . This information is recorded at step . At step an initial determination may be made as to whether any addressees of a communication are in the address book of a member. For example if the message is an e mail a determination is made as to whether or not the addressee is present in the user s contact data. If the addressee is not present in the user s contact data at step then a determination is made at step as to whether the communication activity is sufficient to recommend the address for addition into the user s address book. Step may in one embodiment simply be the act of sending a single e mail to a user. Alternatively additional criteria may be implemented to raise the threshold of activity necessary before a recommendation is submitted at step . If the activity is insufficient to recommend addition to the user s address book then the method proceeds to step . If the activity is sufficient then an offer is made to add the addressee at step . If the addressee is accepted at step then the user is added at step . If not again the method proceeds to step .

At step a determination is made as to whether or not one or more second parties associated from the communication event should be recommended for friendship status within the social network based on the communication activity. Step may occur for each communication event or may be run periodically after collection of communication information over a series of communication events. Following the collection of event activity or following step the method awaits further communication activity at step .

One factor which is evaluated is the type of communication event at step . Instant messages may have a greater weighting than for example an e mail. A direct e mail between two individuals may have a greater weighting than an e mail sent out to a group. Appropriate weighting based on the type of communication event is added at step . At step a determination may be made as to whether sharing activity exists within the event. If a user shares photographs with another user within the communication event this may be indicative that the user considers the shared information appropriate for a friend and appropriate weighting based on this factor is added at step . At step the frequency of the communication between the parties is reviewed. If a user communicates frequently with another user even though the users are not linked within the social network this may indicative that the users are friends. Appropriate weighting is added where there is greater frequency of direct communication between the user and an addressee. Conversely if a user only communicates with an addressee in the context of a group event as evaluated at step this may be indicative that the user is not friends with the addressee. Likewise if a user only receives emails from another party but never sends emails to the party the likelihood that the other party should be a social network friend is reduced. If other users are in the communication event appropriate weighting at step may actually reduce the factor of whether or not to add the addressee as a friend. The frequency of sharing activity is evaluated at step and appropriate weighting added at step . Likewise the time between inter party communications may be examined at step and appropriate weighting added at step . The characteristics of communication outlined in are not exhaustive and may be include any number of characteristics evaluated and weighted in myriad ways.

Certain factors present in may be interpreted based on activity in a third party social network service based on information obtained from the third party aggregator. For example sharing activity or news events may be noted from other social networks and may contribute to suggesting another party as a friend.

At step the sum of the weights added or subtracted at steps and is determined and a recommendation made at step if the sum exceeds a threshold. In an alternative method one or more of the weights may be suitable to allow recommendation of an addressee as a friend. For example a direct communication such as an instant message or email may be sufficient by itself to allow suggestion of another party as a friend.

If the sum of all weights added or subtracted is over the threshold at step a notification is sent to the member recommending the second party to the member as a social network friend at . The member is provided with the opportunity to accept the recommendation and step . If the member accepts the recommendation in step then a determination is made at step as to whether or not the second party is in fact a member of the social network. If the second party is not a member of the social network then at step an invitation may be sent to the addressee to join the social network. Once the second party accepts the invitation the party will be added at step . If the second party is already a member of the social network then the addressee will be added to the user s friend s list at step . If the second party is not a member of the social network an invitation may be send to the second party for the party to join the network. If the member does not accept the recommendation at step then at step the member may be prompted to indicate whether the system should never recommend this party again. If the member never wants to see a recommendation concerning this party the party s name could be added to a blacklist at step .

Typically the communication activity identified in will occur in an e mail message. A member for example e mails people from the account which is associated with the web service . For each message information in the e mail is extracted. This information may include the sender the recipient address or addressees other email addresses within the message the type of e mail message whether it s a direct message or to a group whether there is code within the message indicating a link to a sharing or whether the e mail is in fact an invitation. In an instant messaging environment information within the message stream may be used to determine whether or not the individuals communicating should be recommended as social network friends. Generally instant messaging is a more intimate form of communication than e mail. In general people e mail a large number of people more than they instant message with. As such the nature of an instant message communication may in and of itself constitute a higher waiting than other forms of communication. Factors which may be included when determining whether or not to recommend addressees or addressees parsed from e mail communications may include whether individuals e mail each other frequently over a certain period whether an invitation is contained within the e mail whether the e mail addressee is on a group list with the sender of the e mail whether the user and the addressee e mail each other frequently and the time between the inter party communications.

Upon selection of the action link an invitation will be sent to Joe Smith by them to join the social network service and adding Joe Smith as a friend to the user. A second message indicates that the user has instant messaged Shirley Jones and that Shirley Jones is a member of the social network. Because the system has determined that a recommendation should be made to add Shirley Jones as a friend the action link will invite Shirley Jones to become friends with the user. Upon acceptance of the friendship relationship by Shirley Jones the two will be linked within the social networking service. Alternatively at a message may be presented indicating that type of activity which has occurred between the user and the addressee. At the message indicates that the user has shared photos with Steven Tyler recently and that Steven is a member of the social network. Again the action link will send an invite to Steven Tyler to become friends with the user. Generally an activity stream is emanating and a user search within the social network is also provided.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the technology includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data and includes any information delivery media. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

The technology is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the technology include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The technology may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The technology may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The foregoing detailed description of the system has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the inventive system to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. The described embodiments were chosen in order to best explain the principles of the inventive system and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the inventive system in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the inventive system be defined by the claims appended hereto.

