---

title: Split laser eye protection system
abstract: A laser eye protection (LEP) system for a helmet having a helmet-mounted display (HMD) system. The LEP system includes a large outer visor, which provides ballistic protection, LEP and a display surface for the HMD, and a smaller inner visor, which also provides LEP. LEP is split between the two visors, so that the outer visor can block light in a wavelength that overlaps with the peak wavelength range of the HMD without impairing the wearer's ability to view HMD imagery. The outer visor also preferably does not block near IR light, which allows image-enhancement devices to be positioned within the protective envelope of the outer visor while the smaller inner visor protects the wearer from near IR threats.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08023195&OS=08023195&RS=08023195
owner: Gentex Corporation
number: 08023195
owner_city: Carbondale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081023
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract Number N00421 04 D 0010 awarded by the Naval Air Warfare Center AD PAX .

The present invention relates to configuring laser eye protection to accommodate a helmet mounted display HMD . More particularly it relates to selectively admitting desired wavelengths of an HMD in an inner layer while filtering dangerous laser radiation of similar wavelengths at an outer layer.

It is desirable to protect the eyes of aircrew from potential exposure to light radiation threats during flight. Such protection commonly called laser eye protection or LEP has traditionally been incorporated into a single visor that is attached to an aircrew helmet. Because it is not feasible to provide LEP for all possible threats the visor is typically designed to provide LEP for specific threats which are deemed most hazardous based on the likelihood that the user will encounter the threat and the severity of injury caused by exposure to that threat. The group of wavelength bands for which a particular system provides protection will be referred to herein as an LEP matrix. 

Conventional LEP systems consist of one or more filter technologies incorporated into a single visor or lens for attenuating wavelength bands in the LEP matrix. Such filter technologies include sputtered dielectric stacks holograms polarizing filters and absorber dyes.

Many modern aircraft also include heads up display systems HUD and or HMD systems which provide aircrew with critical data such as targeting information aircraft information and enhanced images e.g. night vision or infrared . Human visual acuity is keenest in the middle of the visible spectrum which is at a wavelength of about 550 nm. Accordingly many HUD and HMD display systems use light sources which generate light having wavelength bands that are close to 550 nm e.g. having peak wavelengths in the range of 525 nm to 560 nm .

In the case of LEP systems which protect against visible threats a conflict arises between the desire to minimize the intensity of threats that will reach the eyes of the person using the system and avoiding vision impairment on the visible spectrum. This problem is of particular concern for LEP systems in which any of the wavelength bands of the LEP matrix overlaps with one or more of the wavelength bands of the light sources for instrumentation HUD and HMD systems. Another problem with conventional LEP systems is that many filter technologies are expensive and or difficult to incorporate into the large highly curved visors commonly used on aircrew helmets.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 343 313 to Fergason discloses a helmet having a helmet mounted display system two polarizing members and a liquid crystal cell located between the polarizing members. Attenuation or blocking of light is achieved by varying rotation of the plane of polarization of light passing through the liquid crystal cell. The HMD system projects onto a surface located between the polarizing members so that operability of the HMD is not impaired by the attenuation of the polarizing members. The eye protection system disclosed in Fergason has several deficiencies including an inability to block light threats in specific narrow wavelength ranges without blocking light in other non threat wavelength ranges. In addition the eye protection system of Fergason requires the cooperation of at least three different components to attenuate or block light.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 584 073 to Radzelovage discloses a helmet system having a display that is projected onto the inside of a visor where the visor provides laser eye protection.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 411 451 to Fliss et al. discloses a narrow bandwidth interference filter in combination with an image intensifier. In Fliss a filter is placed in front of an image intensifier to provide protection against laser radiation. The image intensifier then amplifies the filtered light to acceptable levels for viewing by the user.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 844 980 to He describes a HUD or HMD where the reflectivity of a display surface located on the inside surface of a visor can be varied by applying an electrical field to the display surface.

In one respect the invention comprises an apparatus for use with a head mounted device having an image projection device for displaying an image in the visual field of a user the user having a head and eyes the image projection device being adapted to emit light having a peak wavelength range and a FWHM wavelength range the apparatus comprising a first visor including an inner surface and a display surface located on the inner surface the first visor having a transmittance of less than 1 for light in a first wavelength range the first wavelength range overlapping with the FWHM wavelength range the first visor having a deployed position in which the display surface is positioned at least partially within the visual field of the user and is positioned to reflect light emitted from the image projection device the inner surface facing the eyes of the user when the first visor is in the deployed position and a second visor having a deployed position in which the second visor is positioned at least partially within the visual field of the user and the second visor is positioned between the first visor and the eyes of the user the second visor having a transmittance of less than 1 for each of a first group of at least one light radiation threat and having an integrated luminous transmittance of at least 20 for light emitted by the image projection device.

In another respect the invention comprises an apparatus for use with a headwear mounted device for displaying an image in the visual field of a user the user having a head and eyes the apparatus comprising a first visor having a deployed position in which the headwear is positioned on the head of the user and at least partially within the visual field of the user the first visor having a transmittance of at least 50 for light in the near infrared wavelength range and a second visor having a deployed position in which the headwear is positioned on the head of the user the second visor is positioned at least partially within the visual field of the user and the second visor is positioned between the first visor and the eyes of the user the second visor having a transmittance of less than 1 for light in at least a portion of the near infrared wavelength range.

In yet another respect the invention comprises a head mounted apparatus for displaying an image in the visual field of a user the user having a head and eyes the apparatus comprising a first visor having a deployed position in which the headwear is positioned on the head of the user the display surface is positioned at least partially within the visual field of the user the inner surface facing the eyes of the user when the first visor is in the deployed position 

a head mounted display system that is adapted to emit light having a peak wavelength range and to generate images that are visible to the eyes of the user and a second visor having a deployed position in which the headwear is positioned on the head of the user the second visor is positioned at least partially within the visual field of the user and the second visor is positioned between the first visor and the eyes of the user wherein at least 99 of light in an LEP matrix is filtered by at least one of the first and second visors the LEP matrix including a first wavelength range the first wavelength range having an overlapping portion that overlaps with the peak wavelength range of the head mounted display system the second visor having an integrated luminous transmittance of at least 20 for the light emitted by the head mounted display system.

For the purposes of this application the term light radiation threat or simply threat means a light source that could potentially injure a human eye and or interfere with the vision of a person exposed to the light source.

For the purposes of this application the term block means to filter out at least 99 of light in a particular wavelength range.

For the purposes of this application the term in band means light that is visible to the human eye typically including wavelengths in the range of 380 nm 750 nm and out of band means light that is not visible to the human eye.

For the purposes of this application the term near IR or near infrared means light in the wavelength range from 750 nm 1000 nm.

For the purposes of this application the term headwear means any device that is designed to be worn on the head of a person including but not limited to helmets hats headbands and eyeglasses. The term eyeglasses means any type of eyewear including but not limited to spectacles and goggles.

The present invention comprises a helmet system in which laser eye protection is split between two visors. An embodiment of the present invention is shown in in which reference numeral refers generally to a helmet system which incorporates the features of the present invention. The helmet system includes a helmet an outer visor and an inner visor .

In this embodiment the outer visor performs several functions including vision enhancement LEP ultraviolet protection ballistic protection and providing a surface for the display of HMD images. The base component of the outer visor is preferably a resin material for example polycarbonate. The outer visor may include one or more coatings on its inner and or outer surface. For example an anti reflective coating may be provided. In this embodiment LEP is provided by one or more absorber dyes which are preferably compounded into the resin material of the outer visor . Examples of suitable absorber dyes include FILTRON brand absorber dyes produced by Gentex Corporation.

The outer visor preferably has a deployed position shown in in which the outer visor is positioned in front of the eyes of the wearer and a stowed position not shown in which the outer visor is pivoted up and away from the eyes of the wearer. When the outer visor is in the deployed position it preferably covers substantially all of the field of view of the eyes of the wearer. In order to enable HMD images to be viewed clearly as well as to accommodate other components of the helmet system there is a substantial amount of space between the eyes and outer visor .

The outer visor is preferably contoured to provide a concave display surface see at a location that will reflect and direct imagery from the HMD system to the crew members eyes. As can be seen in the outer visor is large and highly curved in order to occupy substantially all of the wearer s field of view. In this embodiment the minimum radius of curvature of the outer visor is in the range of 100 140 mm.

The inner visor is preferably located within the envelope of the outer visor and much closer to the eyes of the wearer. The base component of the inner visor is preferably a resin material for example polycarbonate. In this embodiment the inner visor is attached to the brow edge of the helmet .

Compared to the outer visor the inner visor provides a smaller more manageable surface area. The size and configuration of the inner visor which is on the order of 18 cm by 10 cm makes it a much more suitable platform in which to incorporate surface applied filter technologies for example multi layer dielectric filters and holograms. The larger surface area of the outer visor which is on the order of 23 cm by 18 cm creates difficulties in applying sputtered dielectric stacks and is susceptible to delamination under the varying pressure and temperature conditions to which the outer visor is likely to be exposed. Referring to the inner visor will often comprise several sandwiched layers A B C each of which incorporates a different filter technology.

In alternate embodiments different filtering technologies and or different numbers of layers could be used. In addition the inner visor could be incorporated into a pair of eyeglasses instead of being attached to the helmet . For example goggles could be used according to the description in U.S. Pat. No. 6 637 877 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety as if fully set forth.

It is important to note that the transmittance characteristics of the outer visor preferably do not depend upon the position or orientation of the inner visor and vice versa. Accordingly the LEP performance of the present invention does not depend upon the relative location and or orientation of the outer and inner visors which allows for more flexibility in design and implementation of the present invention.

Referring to this embodiment includes an HMD system which projects light onto a display surface located on the inner surface of the outer visor . The display surface reflects the light from the HMD toward the wearer s eyes . Any suitable HMD light source and optical assembly could be used to project the desired display information onto the display surface . In this embodiment the HMD uses an LED based light source that projects images and information onto the display surface through a lens . The general path of light from the lens to the eye is depicted by line .

Referring again to this embodiment of the helmet also includes two day night image enhancing cameras hereinafter day night cameras mounted on the helmet preferably above the brow edge . The day night cameras are preferably located outboard of the inner visor but behind inboard of the outer visor . This means that the outer visor will occupy the field of view of the day night cameras . Image data from the day night cameras is processed and displayed by the HMD system.

Positioning of the day night cameras inboard of the outer visor is preferable to positioning outside outboard of the outer visor as in the prior art because it allows the day night cameras to be positioned closer to the eyes and enables the horizontal distance between the day night cameras to be closer to a typical pupil distance for the eyes . Both of these improvements enable greater accuracy of image enhanced data displayed by the HMD system and HMD viewing comfort for the user.

Referring to the day night cameras generate enhanced image data using light at wavelengths that is primarily above 600 nm. Light sensitivity levels of most active image enhancement cameras including day night cameras are highest in the near infrared wavelength range. The outer visor preferably has high transmittance preferably at least 50 and more preferably at least 90 in the near infrared wavelength range in order to avoid impairing performance of the day night cameras . In addition it is preferable that this area of high transmittance extend beyond the near IR wavelength range as defined herein to include the wavelength range of 700 nm 1200 nm this more expansive definition of near IR is reflected in . In embodiments in which other types of image enhancement devices having different operational wavelength ranges are located inboard of the outer visor it is preferable that the outer visor have sufficient transmittance in throughout the operational wavelength range of the image enhancement devices so as to avoid impairing performance thereof.

In many applications however it is desirable to provide eye protection against threats in the near infrared range. Protection against threats in the near infrared range and above is preferably provided by the inner visor only. Accordingly the split LEP design of the present invention enables the day night cameras or any other type of active image enhancement camera to be positioned inboard of the outer visor while also providing protection against threats in the near infrared range.

In this embodiment the inner visor provides transmittance of about 70 for light in the wavelength range from 550 nm to about 650 nm then drops steeply to a transmittance of less than 1 transmittance for light in the wavelength range from 650 nm to at least 1200 nm. The outer visor provides at least 90 transmittance in the wavelength range from 700 nm to at least 1200 nm.

In addition to enabling use of a wider variety of filter technologies splitting LEP between two visors which each independently provide LEP for particular wavelength ranges enables the LEP matrix to include wavelength ranges which overlap with the peak wavelength range of the HMD system. For the purposes of this application the term peak transmission range is intended to have a similar meaning to the term full width at half maximum FWHM except that peak transmission range includes only the wavelengths representing a minimum of 80 of the maximum transmittance instead of the wavelengths representing a minimum of 50 of the maximum transmittance.

An example of such overlap is shown in . The exemplary HMD system labeled HMD in uses a light source having a relatively wide bell shaped emission curve that peaks at about 535 nm and has a peak wavelength range from about 525 nm to about 545 nm. The HUD system labeled HUD in uses a light source which has a narrow emission curve that peaks at a wavelength of about 550 nm. The LEP matrix includes two example threats T at 505 nm and T at 536 nm. As can be seen in the wavelength of the T threat is very close to the peak of the emission curve for the HMD system and is within both the peak wavelength range and FWHM wavelength range for light emitted by the HMD system.

The transmission curve of the inner visor provides for about 50 transmittance of light in the wavelength range from about 435 nm to about 495 nm at which point there is a steep drop in transmittance. Transmittance is less than 1 in the wavelength range from about 505 nm to about 520 nm in order to block the T threat climbs very steeply to about 55 transmittance in the wavelength range from about 520 nm to 525 nm then transitions to a much more gradual increase in transmittance from about 65 to about 70 from about 535 nm to the right edge of the graph.

The transmission curve of the outer visor provides for about 30 transmittance for light in the wavelength range from about 440 nm to about 510 nm at which point there is a steep drop in transmittance. Transmittance is less than 1 in the wavelength range from about 525 nm to about 540 nm in order to block the T threat at 536 nm then climbs steeply to at about 50 transmittance at about 550 nm about 75 transmittance in the wavelength range of about 575 nm and about 90 transmittance at the right edge of the graph about 600 nm .

It should be noted that the transmission curves of the inner and outer visor the emission curves of the HMD and HUD light sources and the threats shown in have been altered from the actual curves and data used in the applicants preferred embodiment because such information is classified as of the filing date of this application. The data provided in is intended to illustrate the concepts of the present invention without disclosing classified information.

Summarizing the transmission characteristics discussed above the present invention enables LEP to be provided for in band threats that overlap with the peak wavelength range more preferably the FWHM wavelength range of light emitted by the HMD system by blocking such threats with the outer visor and not with the inner visor . In band threats that are not within the peak wavelength range more preferably not with the FWHM wavelength range of light emitted by the HMD system are preferably blocked by the inner visor and not by the outer visor in order to reduce the number of filtering elements that are required to be incorporated into the outer visor which has a much larger surface area than the inner visor . The present invention also enables LEP to be provided for out of band threats including near IR without impairing the performance of image enhancement devices located within the protective envelope inboard of the outer visor by blocking near IR threats and preferably all out of band threats with the inner visor and not the outer visor .

While there have been shown described and pointed out fundamental novel features of the invention as applied to preferred embodiments thereof it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the methods described and devices illustrated and in their operation may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention. For example it is expressly intended that all combinations of those elements and or method steps which perform substantially the same function in substantially the same way to achieve the same results are within the scope of the invention. Moreover it should be recognized that structures and or elements and or method steps shown and or described in connection with any disclosed form or embodiment of the invention may be incorporated in any other disclosed described or suggested form or embodiment as a general matter of design choice. It is the intention therefore to be limited only as indicated by the scope of the claims appended hereto.

