---

title: Lighting system and control method thereof
abstract: The present invention is related to a method, system and apparatus, in particular, a lighting system and method of controlling the lighting system, comprising a computer readable medium and a programmable device capable of controlling and manipulating individually addressable lights to realize a visual display at a pixel level.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08427274&OS=08427274&RS=08427274
owner: SAJE Holdings, Inc.
number: 08427274
owner_city: Carmel
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081224
---
This application is related to U.S. Provisional Patent Applications Ser. Nos. 61 009 208 entitled A LIGHTING SYSTEM by Scott A. Jones et al. filed Dec. 27 2007 and 61 075 534 entitled A LIGHTING SYSTEM by Scott A. Jones et al. filed Jun. 25 2008 in the United States Patent and Trademark Office the disclosures of which are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.

The present invention is related to a method system and apparatus in particular a lighting system and method of controlling the lighting system comprising a computer readable medium and a programmable device capable of controlling and manipulating individually addressable lights to realize a visual display at a pixel level.

In general the lighting industry has expanded into the area of decorative lighting and more specifically into the area of holiday decorations. Representative holiday lighting systems may contain controllers that are capable of controlling individual strands of lights. Thus a light controlling device is often limited to controlling an entire strand of incandescent and or LED lights in unison. The controlling device is often a commercially available controller limited to manipulating an entire strand of lights in performing simple functions. In particular light controllers on holiday light systems may allow a user to turn a light strand on or off. Other light controllers may allow manipulation of an entire light strand to displaying various colors and or perform various actions such as intermittent display or streaming display. However this method of controlling an entire strand in unity confines the manipulation of light displays to large scale manipulation. To display arbitrary images and or other media at the pixel level using commercially available controllers and light strands is impossible. Alternatively other controllable lighting systems may use a light display panel such as an LED display panel. An LED display panel is capable of integrating individual LEDs together to display an image. While these types of LED display panels may display images on a pixel level the panels are limited to the manufacturer determined position of lights on the panel. Lights on such panels are unable to be manipulated into varying positions images shapes and or integrated into other non pre determined displays as the spatial positioning of individual lights may not be determined. A method of positioning and manipulating individual lights is desired particularly a system comprised of randomly distributed individual lights that can be monitored programmed and utilized is desired to achieve a level of control of individual lights of random positions.

A lighting system is provided whereby the system comprises apparatus capable of controlling and lighting apparatus that is capable of being controlled to display images video and text utilizing lighting technology. Control of the lighting apparatus may be facilitated through computer readable medium. The computer readable medium may be provided as computer software to be used in detecting analyzing and programming the lighting apparatus. The lighting apparatus may include a plurality of individual LEDs and or any other lights combined on lighting strands and or other structures or fixtures. The controlling apparatus may be comprised of a multimedia or other recording device and or a lighting controller. The recording device may be provided as a video recorder capable of capturing a position s of any lights associated with a lighting apparatus. The lighting controller may be provided as a control box. The control box may include components capable of manipulating the lighting apparatus or structure to display static graphics animated sequences scrolling marquees text and or videos utilizing any combination of available lights.

These together with other aspects and advantages which will be subsequently apparent reside in the details of construction and operation as more fully hereinafter described and claimed reference being had to the accompanying drawings forming a part hereof wherein like numerals refer to like parts throughout.

Reference will now be made in detail to the present embodiments discussed herein examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to the like elements throughout. The embodiments are described below to explain the disclosed system and method by referring to the figures. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope is thereby intended such alterations and further modifications in the illustrated device and such further applications of the principles as illustrated therein being contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the embodiments relate.

A user may be able to place a lighting strand s on an object or surface and connect a strand s to a controller which may be embodied as a control box. A plurality of strands may be connected together to implement a larger display. A control box may be a single component or multiple controllers may be networked for desired scalability. A user may obtain recorded information of a lighting strand s as they are functioning by utilizing any recording device that may be provided internally or externally to the lighting system. The recorded information may include a video capture or other visual record of the lighting strands performing in a predetermined sequence. The video capture may be obtained through open loop and or closed loop video capture technology. The recorded information may alternatively be information that is not visual for example a recording may be taken of ultraviolet infrared and or other detectable emissions.

In an alternative embodiment a user may implement the method of the lighting system by creating and or using a desired large scale display by for example using existing display panels such as LCD display panels televisions screens or any other units etc. and detecting the positions of these units. The positions of individual pixels may be obtained by combining the positions of units with predetermined pixel positions or other known positions into the lighting system representative units. A parallel algorithm may be used to identify the position of individual lights in the lighting system. In particular a first position s of a plurality of lights may be identified and a second position s of other groups subgroups and or other plurality of individual lights may be detected in parallel based on the first position s .

A computer readable medium is provided which may be embodied as computer software containing a program s one of which may implement a graphical user interface for a user to transfer visual information from a recording device to a user system. A program of the computer readable medium may convert the visual information into any known format that is capable of being manipulated on a singular frame level. The visual information may be analyzed by a program of the computer readable medium and 2D and or 3D positioning of a plurality of individual lights may be determined. A program of the computer readable medium may output a graphical representation of the analyzed video information.

Utilizing the system software a user is able to select and or design animated sequences or video static images scrolling images and text and or other display media or information. The display media may be transferred to a portable memory storage device that is capable of being input into the lighting controller. Alternatively the display information may be transferred directly to the controller through network cables port cables or other wired and or wireless technology. The controller may be capable of storing various amounts of display information.

The controller or control box may include serial or parallel control circuitry. The controller may be capable of synchronization of an internal timing mechanism with an incoming stream of display information. The controller may capture the incoming stream of display information and process the information for lighting control. The control box may be manipulated or networked to any number of other control boxes and or other devices with compatible networking capabilities. Compatible devices may be used to activate and or manipulate any control box components.

In a system is disclosed. The system includes a lighting system a recording system and a user system . A lighting system is provided which may include a lighting fixture apparatus light or lighting controller apparatus and computer readable medium. In at least one embodiment the lighting fixture apparatus is comprised of a plurality of individual LEDs combined to form a single strand of lights. However the lighting fixture may be a grouping of LED display panels television or other illuminated panels or screens a plurality of incandescent lights or any other lights combined as a lighting strand a lighting rod and or incorporated as any other fixture or structure. The lighting fixture apparatus may be flexible as to be able to be placed in any desired location such as attached to any object or location commonly utilized for lighting decoration for example a tree a fence etc. The lighting fixture apparatus may be a singular fixture or may be a connection of a plurality of fixtures such as a series of lighting strands connected together. As illustrated in and discussed further herein in at least one embodiment the lighting fixture apparatus is controllable by implementing microcontrollers that may be manipulated to control a subset of individual lights. For example as shown in a microcontroller may be placed every third light in a series of lights.

The lighting system may also contain a light controller apparatus. A light controller apparatus may be embodied as control box as further illustrated in . A light controller is provided to manipulate the lighting fixture apparatus. In at least one embodiment the lighting fixture apparatus may be connected to the controller by means of a wired connection. The connection may be an electrical cord and or may be any wired and or wireless connection capable of facilitating communication between the controller and the lighting fixture. In a preferred embodiment the lighting fixture apparatus and the controller are two separate components of the lighting system however the lighting fixture and the controller may be coupled together into one component or may alternatively be any number of separate components.

The lighting fixture apparatus may be manipulated by the lighting controller by utilizing a computer readable medium provided in the lighting system as computer software. The computer software may be implemented as a program on the user system . In at least one embodiment the computer software may be provided to a user as a series of graphical user interfaces GUIs . Utilizing such interfaces a user may be able to select and or design an animated sequence static image scrolling image or text and or other display information. The computer readable medium as implemented on the user system may be capable of utilizing input information from the recording system and or providing output information based on the selected and or designed display information. The output information can be transferred to and or utilized by the light controller apparatus. The output information may be transferred to a portable memory storage device or any other device that is capable of being associated with the light controller. Alternatively the output information may be transferred directly or indirectly to the light controller through network cables port cables or other wired and or wireless technology.

The light controller may be capable of reading analyzing manipulating and or storing various forms of display information. The light controller may include several components such as a serial or parallel control circuit an internal timing mechanism a port s means for connecting to the lighting fixture apparatus means for connecting to an external power or energy source an internal energy source and or various internal or external controls. The light controller may be capable of synchronization of an internal timing mechanism with an incoming stream of display information as provided by utilizing the computer software. The light controller may capture an incoming stream of display information and process the information for lighting control of the light fixture apparatus. The light controller may be manipulated by and or networked to any number of other controllers and or other devices with compatible wired and or wireless network capabilities. For example other compatible devices such as a remote control may be used to activate and or manipulate the controller and any of its components.

A recording system may be provided as part of the system . A recording device may be included in the system as an individual component or it may be provided internally or externally to any other component of the system. For example the recording device may be incorporated into another component of the system such as the lighting controller. The recording device may be a digital camera video recording device and or any other device capable of capturing visual or other detectable information. The visual information may include a video capture of any light s of the lighting fixture. For example the visual information may be a video capture of a plurality of LEDs flashing in a predetermined sequence. The video capture may be obtained through open loop and or closed loop video capture technology. The visual information may be transferred from the recording device directly or indirectly to the user system . The transfer of visual information from the recording device to the user system may be facilitated by utilizing a portable memory storage device such as a camera memory card or any other memory storage device capable of being read by the computer system. Alternatively the recording device may be connected to a user system via any wired and or wireless connection capable of facilitating communication and or data transfer.

The user system is provided in . The user system may be any typical desktop or laptop system such as a PC a handheld computer such as a personal digital assistant PDA or any other device that may allow a user to import analyze and or manipulate any visual information recorded via the recording system . The user system may be any device that is capable of reading the visual information and or capable of performing analysis of such visual information. The user system may perform an analysis of visual information via any computer readable medium that may be provided as software or any other type of program that may be used in the analysis and or manipulation of the recorded visual information. The computer readable medium of the lighting system may be implemented on the user system to analyze the position of any lights associated with and or resident in the lighting fixture apparatus. The computer readable medium may convert the visual information into any known format that is capable of being manipulated on a singular frame level. The visual information can be analyzed by the computer readable medium and a 2D and or 3D positioning of the plurality of individual lights can be determined. Utilizing the computer readable medium the lighting system may be able to analyze the visual obtained by the recording system and be able to output a graphical representation of the analyzed visual information to the display of the user system .

In a flow diagram of the process is shown. In operation a user distributes any lighting fixture s of the lighting system and any associated components such as any associated lighting controllers to a desired location s . For example a lighting fixture which may be embodied as a strand including a plurality of lights may be placed on an object such as a tree a house a fence or any other object or location capable of supporting the lighting fixture. If the lighting fixture has been distributed as desired control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a user associates a lighting fixture s with a light controller s via a connection. The lighting fixture may be two or more lighting fixtures coupled together and associated with one or more controllers. The lighting fixture s can be connected to the controller s via a connection which may be any physical connection for example an electrical cord on a lighting fixture embodied as a strand of lights may be connected to a receiving port on the light controller. The connection may be any wired or wireless connection that facilitates communication between the light controller s and the lighting fixture s . The controller may be able to connect to any number of lighting fixtures through any number of connections. In addition the controller may be coupled with additional controllers and or other devices for scalability of the system. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a light controller s is powered. The powering of a light controller may be achieved through connection to any power source such as a standard electrical outlet any stand alone power source such as a generator a battery etc. or any other source capable of providing power to the controller. The power source may be supplied as AC and or DC power. Alternatively the light controller may be provided with an internal power source such as a battery to facilitate operation. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a sequencing event including any lights incorporated in or associated with the lighting fixture apparatus is performed and recorded. The sequencing of lights may be based on a predetermined sequence. For example program code calling a function for turning lights on and off may be provided to manipulate any microcontrollers associated with individual lights. A resulting intermittent and or flashing lights may be displayed on any lighting fixture s resulting from the distribution of lights performed in operation . A sequence of flashing lights may include a plurality of lights flashing in unison individual lights flashing in a predetermined order a predetermined pattern of individual and or a plurality of lights flashing at various times or any other sequence of lit and or unlit lights. The sequencing event of the lights may serve as a calibration of the lighting system display by utilizing any lights as static reference points. The sequencing event may include any number of synchronization frames to enable the lighting system to overcome the inaccuracy of capturing a frame rate of an associated recording device. Any sequence of flashing lights may vary based on conditions such as size of the lighting fixture s and associated lights for example a lighting fixture embodied as a light strand with a light count greater than a certain threshold of light nodes may cycle through a different sequence than a light strand with a light node count less than or equal to the threshold.

In at least one embodiment a sequencing event may be embodied as a parallel mapping algorithm used for a calibration of the lighting system. For example to decrease a number of frames required to calculate positions of all lights associated with a lighting system a parallel sequence display of any number of lights may be performed. Using a method of parallel mapping a calibration of a lighting position s may be scalable. In at least one embodiment a lighting fixture apparatus embodied as a lighting strand s and a plurality of lighting controllers as control boxes may comprise an overall lighting system. Using this embodiment an illumination of all lights associated with all control box es may be a first tier of a parallel mapping algorithm to determine a distribution of all lights and a second tier may be separate concurrent or parallel illuminations of all lights associated with each of a plurality of control box es to determine a distribution of all lights associated with each of the separate control boxes. A third tier of the parallel mapping algorithm may be separate concurrent or parallel illuminations of all lights associated with each of a plurality of individual channels or channel ports associated with the control box es . A fourth tier of the parallel mapping algorithm may be separate concurrent or parallel illuminations of all lights associated with each of a plurality of individual lighting strands associated with each of the channel ports of each of the control box es . A fifth tier of the parallel mapping algorithm may be separate concurrent or parallel illuminations of each light associated with each of a plurality of lighting strands associated with each of the channel ports of each of the control box es .

Using the exemplary embodiment of the lighting system above a lighting system may comprise three communicatively coupled control boxes of sixteen channel ports for each control box three light strands for each channel port and ninety nine lights for each light strand. In implementing a parallel mapping algorithm a first step may be illuminating all lights associated with the three control boxes to identify a total light distribution area and or pattern associated with the overall lighting system. A second step may be separately illuminating all lights associated with each control box to identify a separate light distribution and or pattern associated with each control box. A third step may be separately illuminating all lights associated with each of the channels with each of the three control boxes performing this illumination step concurrently. A fourth step may be illuminating all lights associated with each light strand separately with all sixteen channels for all three control boxes performing this illumination step concurrently. A fifth step may be illuminating each light separately on every light strand with all light strands performing this illumination step concurrently. Information obtained by performing this parallel mapping algorithm may be combined and used to facilitate determining an indexing or positioning of each light light strand channel and or control box.

A predetermined sequencing program code may be resident in the light controller such that the controller is capable of manipulating the lights to run the predetermined sequence. Alternatively the program code may be transferred directly from a computer system and or transferred by any commonly known removable or portable memory storage devices. For example in at least one embodiment the program code associated with a calibration sequence is written to an SD card capable of being inserted directly into the light controller much like the memory card of a digital camera or other device. The sequencing event may be initiated by a button switch or any other control associated directly on or with the light controller or by a control associated remotely and or indirectly with the controller such as a remote control a control on a computer system and or any other device capable of communication with the controller whether by wired or wireless communication. The sequencing event may be utilized to determine an initial location or position of individual lights. The sequencing event of the lights may be recorded via a recording device associated with the recording system .

The recording of the sequence event may be performed via a recording device included in the lighting system or by any other device capable of providing suitable visual or other information for analysis. The recording of the sequencing event may be performed by open loop capture such that a user may utilize his or her desired recording device. Alternatively the recording of the sequencing event may be performed by closed loop capture such that a recording device is connected to and or associated with the light controller thus providing for synchronization of the recording device by the controller. The recording of the sequencing event may be performed to obtain visual information of a 2D and or 3D position s of any lights associated with the lighting fixture s . A 3D position of any lights may be facilitated by the recording device by performing any recording s of the lights from different angles and or directions. The recording device associated with operation may be arranged at any suggested and or desired location relative to the lighting fixture s . The recording device may have a suggested location relative to the location of the lighting fixture. For example a suggested range for a physical distance between the recording device and any lights may be provided such as three to five feet away from the lighting fixture. Alternatively a recording device may be placed at any location relative to the lighting fixture s that may provide for a visual representation of the entire distribution of lights desired to be utilized in a display. A user may be instructed to maintain a manual focus on the recording device being used. For example if an auto focus or other automatic focus function of a camera or other recording device is used an overall distortion or blurring may occur as the sequencing event occurs. In at least one embodiment a recording device may be used to obtain only the key frames required for calculating light position s . For example a plurality of static images obtained from a camera such as a digital camera may be captured at different time s and or locations. Using the above example the static images may be translated modified resized and or rotated to overcome the problem of position change of camera between different frames. A plurality of key frames may be captured and utilized to obtain the position s of any lights associated with a lighting fixture apparatus. Alternatively a closed loop recording method may be used. If the recording of operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation the visual or other information obtained during the sequencing event is transferred to a computer or other user system capable of reading analyzing and or manipulating the information. The visual information may be transferred from the recording device directly or indirectly to a computer system. The transfer of visual information from the recording device to the computer system may be facilitated by utilizing a portable memory storage device such as a memory card or any other memory storage device capable of being read by the computer system. Alternatively the recording device may by connected to the computer system directly or indirectly via any wired and or wireless connection capable of facilitating communication and or data transfer. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a user system that has been provided with program code and any associated data of the computer readable medium of the lighting system may be utilized to initialize the reading and or analyzing of the visual information obtained during the recording of the sequencing event of operation . The computer readable medium embodied as computer software may include a file conversion program a program to read analyze and manipulate the visual information an interface s for user selection of display information and other data and or information used in facilitating the output display information that may be transferred to the light controller. In at least one embodiment a software package is provided that may include a file conversion program such as any open source video conversion utility capable of converting the visual information obtained via the recording device to any desired file format. For example the original visual information transferred to the computer system may be converted to compressed AVI file format via the file conversion program. The file format of the converted visual information may be any format that can allow individual frames of visual information to be extracted from the entire file. Extraction of individual frames may be facilitated by using any software application programming interface or any other software and or codec capable of extracting individual frames.

If the visual information is converted to a file format supported by the software program the program may read the converted visual information and process and or analyze the images obtained. For example the program may read a first frame of the converted visual information and thus be capable of reading any dimensions of the visual information such as dimensions of a video frame any codec and or software used to convert and or compress the visual information information associated with the recording device such as frame rate etc. and or any other information available. A first frame of the converted visual information may be obtained by bypassing a portion of the visual information. For example if a sequencing event is initiated a flashing of all lights associated with the lighting fixture s may be performed to indicate that the sequencing event has commenced and such a flashing of all associated lights may be bypassed as any initial flashing of lights may for example interfere with the program reading analysis and or processing of the visual information. A bypassing of a portion of visual information may be based on a time period a frame set or any other measurement or element.

If the visual information is read by the computer system the program may process and or analyze the images contained in the visual information. An analysis of the visual information may be done on an individual frame basis. An analysis of the visual information may include locating a first frame where a percentage and or threshold of all lights associated with a lighting fixture are illuminated locating subsequent frame s in which a percentage or threshold which may be based on a first frame reading of all lights associated with the lighting fixture are illuminated and or any other analysis of the visual information. In performing an analysis on light illumination of the visual information the program may initially set a threshold value. A threshold value may be a certain percentage associated with a total. A threshold value may be used to determine whether a frame of visual information is considered a frame having all of the lights associated with the light fixture illuminated.

In determining whether a frame of visual information is considered a frame having all of the lights associated with the light fixture illuminated a frame of visual information may be analyzed based on a portion of the frame for example analysis may be initially based on any number of lights. A frame of visual information may be analyzed based on an individual light. In considering whether an individual light is considered by the program code to be illuminated the visual information associated with the light may be analyzed. For example a pixel or any other measurement of the visual information may be analyzed to determine illumination of a light. An analysis of a measurement of the visual information may be based on any component level s . For example a pixel may be considered a possibility for illumination of a light if any or all component level values of a pixel reach a certain threshold. For example if a red a green and or a blue component associated with a pixel meets and or exceeds a certain threshold value the pixel may be considered an illuminated pixel associated with an illuminated light. A threshold value may be based on a percentage applied toward a total value. For example a threshold value may be a percentage of a total intensity value associated with a light.

In determining whether a frame of visual information is considered a frame having all of the lights associated with the light fixture illuminated an analysis of visual information based on any portion of the frame may be utilized. For example the information obtained from analysis of an individual pixel s of the visual information may be utilized in determining an overall illumination of a frame. A threshold value may be utilized. A threshold value may be based on a percentage applied toward a total value. For example a threshold value may be a percentage of a total pixel count or dimension of a frame of visual information. A total pixel count or dimension of a frame of visual information may be obtained by various methods. For example the height may be multiplied by the width of a frame of visual information to determine overall pixel count of a frame of visual information. A threshold value of the total pixel count may be taken. A threshold value may reflect the minimum illumination requirement of a frame that may be utilized to consider a frame of visual information a frame having all of the lights associated with the light fixture illuminated. An illumination requirement may be met by analyzing a portion of a frame of visual information for example the analysis of illumination of individual pixels of a frame may facilitate determination of illumination for the entire frame. In determining whether a frame of visual information is considered a frame having all of the lights associated with the light fixture illuminated any subsequent threshold value s may be set based on actual illumination determined in a frame of visual information. For example if a frame of visual information contains 9000 pixels that are considered illuminated pixels and thus illuminated lights but the threshold value for considering a frame of visual information a frame having all the lights associated with the light fixture illuminated was initially set to reflect 6000 pixels then a new threshold value to determine whether a subsequent frame is considered an illuminated frame may be based on the pixel analysis resulting in a count of 9000 pixels.

The software or program code may continue to analyze any and or all the visual information associated with the sequencing event in determining the position s of lights. The program may continue until all frames associated with the visual information are read and analyzed. The program may determine an average and or representative frame of the lighting fixture distribution by utilizing any information obtained during the analysis of the visual information. An average frame may be utilized in subsequent analysis of individual lights of the lighting fixture s . For example analysis of all frames associated with the visual information may yield individual values that may be totaled and averaged into a representative frame of visual information considered a frame of visual information with all lights associated with the light fixture illuminated. Alternatively in at least one embodiment a representation of light positioning may be produced manually or by a coupling of automatic detection utilizing the software code and manual inclusion of light positions using a matrix or sectional system. For example if in operation a lighting fixture s is distributed in a grid format or other uniform positioning then an axis positioning of lights may be produced by utilizing a simple graphing program. Whether obtained automatically manually and or by a combination of both methods the representative frame of visual information may be utilized in determining the positioning of the lights associated with the lighting fixture s .

A program may continue to analyze any and or all the visual information associated with the sequencing event. The program may continue to analyze any frames in determining if a frame is considered to be a frame with potential of any lights associated with the light fixture illuminated. For example the program may continue to analyze the visual information on a singular frame level and thus determine whether any pixel associated with a frame meets and or exceeds a certain threshold value set to determine if a pixel is considered to be associated with an illuminated light. The program may continue to analyze any light potential of any individual pixel and or any other portion or measurement associated with a frame of visual information to determine any and or all light potential associated with any and or all frames of visual information. This analysis may be used to determine the location and or maximum intensity and or illumination information of any components associated with a pixel section sector and or frame of visual information. The resulting illumination information may be used to create a histogram and or any other textual pictorial graphical or any other type of representation of the information. A representation of light illumination information may be any set of coordinates such as axes coordinates which may be utilized in facilitating the mapping and or locating of any lights associated with a light fixture s . The locating of any lights associated with the light fixture may represent a 2D and or 3D location s or position s of individual lights. In locating or detecting position s of lights associated with a light fixture s the locations may be utilized in designing a display pattern graphic animation and or any other static or animated visual display utilizing the location determined lights associated with the light fixture s . If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a user is provided with the ability to select and or design display information. For example the program code associated with the computer readable medium of the lighting system may include a software program that provides a user with the ability to design display features images text graphics animations effects and or any other elements of visual information that may be included in a display sequence effect and or other visual program or display utilizing any lights associated with the light fixture s . A user may be provided with selections or selectable options via a graphical user interface s GUIs as further illustrated in . A user may be provided with the ability to design his or her own display based on any given display features and or the ability to design and or program his or her own features or elements. As discussed further herein a display s utilizing light positions as well as non positional effects may be designed and displayed. For example a user may desire to display a chasing effect a twinkling effect and or other commonly known lighting effects that are not dependent on determining the spatial positioning of lights associated with a lighting fixture s . Alternatively a user may utilize any existing image video or other multimedia programs or software to create or generate a video sequence to be used by the software program. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation any display information designed and or selected in operation is output to the lighting controller. The controller may be capable of synchronization of an internal timing mechanism with an incoming stream of display information. The controller may capture the incoming stream of display information and process the information for lighting control. A controller may receive information by any means available by for example any display information may be output to a removable memory storage device such as any MultiMediaCard MMC for example an SD card etc. The controller may manipulate any microcontrollers of the associated lights to display the display information designed and or selected by the user in operation . Any number of controllers may be used to control any number of lights. For example in at least one embodiment a controller may be limited to controlling a certain number of light strands based on the power output capabilities of the controller and thus for example several controllers may be coupled together so that a plurality of controllers may be used to control a larger amount of light strands. Operation may continue until a user selects to discontinue display of the lighting system and or a user selects to return to a preceding operation to change a distribution of any lighting fixture s change any display features etc.

The LED may be any type size or shape LED. For example the LED may be a monochrome LED an RGB and or multi color light such as any bi color and or tri color LED that may be commonly known. Alternatively the LED may be any light source such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED an incandescent light or other lamp. As illustrated in and in at least one embodiment a plurality of LEDs is connected in series along a strand. The LED lead wires include an anode and a cathode lead as commonly known and associated with a diode. Utilizing the lead wires the LED can be connected to a power supply facilitated by the power wire . Additionally the LED may be connected to the ground wire .

As illustrated in the microcontroller may be any low feature microcontroller capable of performing simple functions or existing light or LED drivers. For example as shown in an 8 bit microcontroller such as an Atmel ATtiny13 microcontroller with built in oscillator may be used. As illustrated in the microcontroller includes a supply voltage a ground and a 6 bit bi directional I O port with internal pull up resistors. The microcontroller may be capable of manipulating lights such as the LED by utilizing pulse width modulation PWM from data received on an asynchronous communication line. The microcontroller may be paired with a decoupling capacitor for use in a DC circuit configuration such as that illustrated in . Alternatively the light controller may be embodied in an AC configuration as further discussed herein with respect to the light control circuitry illustrated in .

In at least one embodiment the lighting apparatus of may include a strand controller. For example for each lighting apparatus embodied as a strand of lights a strand controller may be provided to transfer data from the lighting controller or control box of the lighting system to each strand of lights and or from each strand of lights to the lighting controller.

A strand controller may be connected at the beginning of a strand of lights. As illustrated in a receiving control signal receives data from the lighting system controller or control box. The positive regulator maintains a constant voltage through the strand controller circuit . The receiving control signal may be received by a built in serial communications interface of the MCU and or by a software implemented interface or GUIs. Alternatively communication protocols such as TCP IP inter integrated circuit control IC and or other multidirectional 1 wire 2 wire and or any other communication protocols may be utilized for communication among the lighting controller or control box and the strand controller. The MCU may be any microcontroller capable of sending and receiving data for each light strand. As illustrated in the MCU is a commonly available 8 bit microcontroller unit. The transmitting control signal transmits data from the MCU to the light controller such as the light controller . The strand controller circuit also contains electrostatic discharge controls ESD and ESD to dissipate electrostatic charge s .

To control individual lights of a lighting fixture s the transmitting control signal from the strand controller circuit may be transferred to the light controller such as the light controller illustrated in . illustrates an exemplary light controller circuit . The light controller circuit includes LED LED LED a light control positive regulator and a light control MCU . The light controller circuit illustrates the process of receiving a transmitted signal from the strand controller to facilitate the individual control of a plurality of LEDs. As illustrated in the light controller contains LED LED and LED connected in series along the circuit. illustrates a light controller capable of controlling three LEDs however additional embodiments may have a light controller that controls any number of lights or LEDs. In at least one embodiment a light strand includes ninety nine monochrome LEDs connected in series therefore each MCU controlling three lights each may be addressed from a numerical range such as for example the range 1 33.

The light control positive regulator maintains a constant voltage through the light controller circuit . The light control MCU may be any microcontroller capable of sending and receiving data. As illustrated in the MCU is an inexpensive low pin count 8 bit microcontroller with a built in 8 bit modulo timer. The MCU may be any commonly known microcontroller with an internal clock source for running the light controller program code and or modulo timer used to maintain current intensities of the LEDs during any periods of idle control signal. The central component of the modulo timer is the 8 bit counter with a timer overflow interrupt that can be enabled to generate periodic interrupts for time based software loops.

The exemplary light controller circuits of are only two such embodiments of a light controller of a lighting fixture apparatus of the lighting system . Other embodiments may exist that are commonly known.

As illustrated in the output fan and the intake fan may be included in the control box . The output fan may output heated air from inside the control box that may be a result of a prolonged and or continuous use of the control box . The output fan and the intake fan may cycle continuously or they may be triggered to initiate performance upon an internal temperature sensor a timing clock etc. The intake fan may input cooled air into the control box that may be used to cool down any components inside the control box that may need to maintain a certain lower temperature for proper functioning and control. The network connection port may accept any standard Ethernet and or any other network cable to serve as a network connection from the control box to another device. For example a network cable leading from the network connection port may be connected to other control boxes a third party controller and or other devices. In this way more than one control box may be networked together to provide scalability of the lighting system and or synchronization of any number of displays controlled by any number of control boxes. For example as further illustrated in in at least one embodiment of the control box the lighting controller may control up to sixteen channels. However if networked a control box may share timing and other data and information with another control box es to synchronize visual displays as separate components or displays and or as part s a singular entire display.

The light controllers such as those illustrated in execute the light controller program code. The light controller program facilitates synchronization data capture counter control and light control of the lighting system. A light controller s internal clock may be synchronized with the incoming data bit stream. If an incoming data bit stream is detected and or synchronized it can be captured processed and or stored by the light controller. Utilizing program code the light controller may utilize any data to control illumination of any lights on the light fixture apparatus. The process of illustrates the process of executing the light controller program code of the lighting system.

In operation hardware and data variables are detected. An external hardware interrupt can detect a low high transition which corresponds to a stop start bit transition. This detection may be utilized at the start of a data word transmission to enable the light controller program to start at the external interrupt vector s address. Utilizing the transition allows cycle losses associated with a relative jump to be avoided. The external interrupt may only be enabled at the end of the initialization of the light controller program for prevention of a data low high from triggering the interrupt. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a determination is made as to whether an external interrupt is detected from a signal pin. If an external interrupt is detected control is passed to operation and process continues. If an external interrupt is not detected control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a clearing of the state of all lights is performed by the light controller program code and all lights of the lighting fixture apparatus are set to the off or unlit state or position. A light controller microcontroller may not be addressed by assigning a particular serial number. Alternatively the microcontroller may count the number of PWM words transmitted and or update any lights the microcontroller controls when the PWM value s of the lights is received. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a determination is made as to whether the intensity or illumination of a first in a plurality of lights meets a certain threshold PWM value. If the certain threshold PWM value is met or exceeded control is passed to operation and process continues. If the certain threshold PWM value is not met or exceeded control is passed to operation and process continues. The determination of operation may be made by comparing an individual PWM light value to a PWM system value. For example in an exemplary light controller program code a value of PWMCount is defined as a PWM system value. In the above example PWMCount may be incremented in value by a numerical value of 1 if the program completes an entire cycle. The incremented value of PWMCount may be cleared and or reset if PWMCount reaches a certain maximum value that may for example correspond to the number of microcontrollers resident in a lighting fixture apparatus.

In operation a light state of a first in a plurality of lights is modified. If in operation the detected PWM of a first light meets or exceeds a certain threshold value then in operation the light is illuminated or turned on. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a determination is made as to whether the intensity or illumination of a second in a plurality of lights meets a certain threshold PWM value. If the certain threshold PWM value is met or exceeded control is passed to operation and process continues. If the certain threshold PWM value is not met or exceeded control is passed to operation and process continues. The determination of operation may be made by comparing an individual PWM light value to a PWM system value. For example in an exemplary light controller program code a value of PWMCount is defined as a PWM system value. In the above example PWMCount may be incremented in value by a value of 1 if the program completes an entire cycle. The incremented value of PWMCount may be cleared and or reset if PWMCount reaches a certain maximum value that may correspond to the number of microcontrollers resident in a lighting fixture apparatus.

In operation a light state of a second in a plurality of lights is modified. If in operation the detected PWM value of a second light meets or exceeds a certain threshold value then in operation the light is illuminated or turned on. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a determination is made as to whether the intensity or illumination of a third in a plurality of lights meets a certain threshold PWM value. If the certain threshold PWM value is met or exceeded control is passed to operation and process continues. If the certain threshold PWM value is not met or exceeded control is passed to operation and process continues. The determination of operation may be made by comparing an individual PWM light value to a PWM system value. For example in an exemplary light controller program code a value of an exemplary variable such as PWMCount is assigned as a PWM system value. In the above example PWMCount may be incremented in value by a value of 1 if the program completes an entire cycle. The incremented value of PWMCount may be cleared and or reset if PWMCount reaches a certain maximum value that may correspond to the number of microcontrollers resident in a lighting fixture apparatus.

In operation a light state of a third in a plurality of lights is modified. If in operation the detected PWM value of a third light meets or exceeds a certain threshold value then in operation the light is illuminated or turned on. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a first of a plurality of data bits is captured. The data capture occurs through a series of lines of program code. The program code may contain a carry flag for data bit capture. Upon execution of the program code the carry flag may be cleared to enable capture of a first data bit. In operation a first data bit is captured and stored into the carry flag. To enable proper capture of data bits program code may be placed in the center of each data bit as an MCU receiver clock of a light strand controller may drift high or low. If a data bit is captured in operation the carry flag may be rotated into a new data variable which may be placed into a subsequent data variable for processing during a next program cycle. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a determination is made as to whether a microcontroller counter transmitted signal data value equals a value of a microcontroller serial number or unique identification. If in operation the microcontroller transmitted signal data value equals the value of a microcontroller serial number control is passed to operation and process continues. If in operation the microcontroller transmitted signal data value does not equal the value of a microcontroller serial number control is passed to operation and process continues.

The determination in operation is made to detect whether data transmitted to a microcontroller is intended for the microcontroller. The determination of operation may be based on any microcontroller counter and or serial number counter values. For example in the lighting controller program code a variable such as LEDCount may be defined to correspond to a targeted LED and a variable ChipCount may be defined to correspond to a targeted microcontroller. The variable LEDCount may be set to begin for example at the numerical value of 3 . The LEDCount variable may be decremented by a value of 1 if a program cycle is completed. In the above example the value of 3 is representative of the light strand embodiment of in which three LEDs are controlled by each microcontroller or MCU. If LEDCount is decremented by a value of 1 until it reaches the value of 0 the variable may be restored to an initial value of 3 and or the variable ChipCount may be incremented by a value of 1 .

Using the above exemplary program code in operation the value of the variable of ChipCount may be compared to the value of the variable s assigned to the serial number s to each microcontroller of the lighting fixture apparatus. For example in at least one embodiment a microcontroller is placed every third LED on a light strand of ninety nine lights for a total of thirty three microcontrollers per light strand. Using the above example each of the thirty three microcontrollers may be assigned or may have a serial number or other unique identification detected and defined as a variable such as the variable SerialNum . In operation the value of the variable SerialNum may be compared to the value of the variable ChipCount to determine if the data transmitted to the microcontroller is intended for that microcontroller.

In operation a PWM updating subroutine is executed by the lighting controller program code. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a second of a plurality of data bits is captured. The data capture occurs through a series of lines of program code operating under the initializing of the PWM updating subroutine. The program code may contain a carry flag for data bit capture. In operation a second data bit is captured and stored into the carry flag. To enable proper capture of data bits program code may be placed in the center of each data bit as an MCU receiver clock of a light strand controller may drift high or low. If a data bit is captured in operation the carry flag may be rotated into a new data variable which may be placed into a subsequent data variable for processing during a next program cycle. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

If in operation a microcontroller transmitted signal data value equals the value of a microcontroller serial number or unique identification the updating subroutine of operation is bypassed and control is passed to operation .

If the targeted microcontroller is not determined in operation operation and process continues to capture data bits without execution of the PWM updating subroutine. In operation a second of a plurality of data bits is captured. The data capture occurs through a series of lines of the main program code. The program code may contain a carry flag for data bit capture. In operation a second data bit is captured and stored into the carry flag. To enable proper capture of data bits program code may be placed in the center of each data bit as an MCU receiver clock of a light strand controller may drift high or low. If a data bit is captured in operation the carry flag may be rotated into a new data variable which may be placed into a subsequent data variable for processing during a next program cycle. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a determination is made as to whether the targeted microcontroller value has reached or exceeded a threshold value. For example in operation the targeted microcontroller value continuing to be defined as the exemplary program code variable ChipCount may be compared to a threshold value. If the microcontroller counter variable ChipCount reaches or exceeds a threshold value then the microcontroller counter may overflow. The overflow may be a result of a packet header data value failing to be transmitted and or skipped or missed. In order to prevent the microcontroller counter from overflowing the determination of operation is made by the lighting controller program code. If the microcontroller value has reached a threshold value control is passed to operation and process continues. If the microcontroller value has not reached or exceeded a threshold value control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation the microcontroller counter value is decremented. For example using the exemplary variable ChipCount the value of ChipCount may be decremented by a value of 1 to return the ChipCount value to a value below the defined threshold value. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

If the targeted microcontroller is determined in operation operation executes the PWM updating subroutine process continues to capture data bits and a determination is made for targeting lights. In operation a determination is made as to whether a first of a plurality of lights is targeted for PWM. If it is determined that a first of a plurality of lights is targeted for PWM control is passed to operation and process continues. If it is determined that a first of a plurality of lights is not targeted for PWM control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation the light state of a first of a plurality of lights is modified. For example if in operation it is determined that light one is targeted by a transmitted stream of data then by PWM the light intensity or luminance is updated in response to the incoming stream of data. The light luminance modification or update may include turning a light or LED on turning a light or LED off changing a light or LED color effect intensity or any other manipulation allowable by the light controller or MCU.

In operation a determination is made as to whether a second of a plurality of lights is targeted for PWM. If it is determined that a second of a plurality of lights is targeted for PWM control is passed to operation and process continues. If it is determined that a second of a plurality of lights is not targeted for PWM control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation the light state of a second of a plurality of lights is modified. For example if in operation it is determined that light two is targeted by a transmitted stream of data then by PWM the light intensity or luminance is updated in response to the incoming stream of data. The light luminance modification or update may include turning a light or LED on turning a light or LED off changing a light or LED color effect intensity or any other manipulation allowable by the light controller or MCU.

In operation a third of a plurality of data bits is captured. The data capture occurs through a series of lines of program code operating under the branch of the program code initializing the PWM updating subroutine. The program code may contain a carry flag for data bit capture. In operation a third data bit is captured and stored into the carry flag. To enable proper capture of data bits program code may be placed in the center of each data bit as an MCU receiver clock of a light strand controller may drift high or low. If a data bit is captured in operation the carry flag may be rotated into a new data variable which may be placed into a subsequent data variable for processing during a next program cycle. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a determination is made as to whether a third of a plurality of lights is targeted for PWM. If it is determined that a third of a plurality of lights is targeted for PWM control is passed to operation and process continues. If it is determined that a third of a plurality of lights is not targeted for PWM control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation the light state of a third of a plurality of lights is modified. For example if in operation it is determined that light three is targeted by a transmitted stream of data then by PWM the light intensity or luminance is updated in response to the incoming stream of data. The light luminance modification or update may include turning a light or LED on turning a light or LED off changing a light or LED color effect intensity or any other manipulation allowable by the light controller or MCU.

In operation a third of a plurality of data bits is captured. The data capture of operation occurs through a series of lines of program code operating under the branch of the main program bypassing the PWM updating subroutine. The program code may contain a carry flag for data bit capture. In operation a third data bit is captured and stored into the carry flag. To enable proper capture of data bits program code may be placed in the center of each data bit as an MCU receiver clock of a light strand controller may drift high or low. If a data bit is captured in operation the carry flag may be rotated into a new data variable which may be placed into a subsequent data variable for processing during a next program cycle. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation any I O ports of the microcontroller of the light controller are updated. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a second synchronization occurs by polling the data line value in the serial communications start bit. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation the value of the PWM counter of the microcontroller is updated. For example using the exemplary light controller program code a value of an exemplary variable such as PWMCount is assigned as a PWM system counter value. In the above example PWMCount may be updated by incremented in value by a value of 1 if the program code completes an entire cycle. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a determination is made as to whether the PWM counter has met or exceeded a certain threshold value. If it is determined that a PWM counter has met or exceeded a certain threshold value control is passed to operation and process continues. If it is determined that a PWM counter has not met or exceeded a certain threshold value control is passed to operation and process continues. The determination in operation may be facilitated by a simple comparison of program code values. For example using the exemplary light controller program code a value of an exemplary variable such as PWMCount is assigned as a PWM system counter value. In the above example PWMCount may be compared against a maximum threshold numerical value to determine if the PWM counter has met or exceeded a maximum value.

In operation the incremented value of the PWM counter may be reset or cleared. For example using the exemplary light controller program code the variable PWMCount may be cleared and or reset if PWMCount reaches a certain maximum value that may correspond to the number of microcontrollers resident in a lighting fixture apparatus.

In operation a determination is made as to whether header data is read by the lighting controller. If it is determined that header data is read by the lighting controller control is passed to operation and process continues. If it is determined that header data is not read by the lighting controller control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a microcontroller counter is reset or cleared. For example using the exemplary light controller program code with the variable ChipCount the value of ChipCount may be reset to a numeric value of 0 to clear the ChipCount value. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a light or LED counter is reset or cleared. For example in the lighting controller program code a variable such as LEDCount may be defined to correspond to a targeted LED and a variable. Using the exemplary light controller program code with the variable LEDCount the value of LEDCount may be reset to a numeric value of 0 to clear the LEDCount value. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a fourth of a plurality of data bits is captured. The data capture of operation occurs through a series of lines of program code operating under the branch of the main program code. The program code may contain a carry flag for data bit capture. In operation a fourth data bit is captured and stored into the carry flag. To enable proper capture of data bits program code may be placed in the center of each data bit as an MCU receiver clock of a light strand controller may drift high or low. If a data bit is captured in operation the carry flag may be rotated into a new data variable which may be placed into a subsequent data variable for processing during a next program cycle. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a light counter is decremented. For example in the lighting controller program code a variable such as LEDCount may be defined to correspond to a targeted LED. The variable LEDCount may be set to begin at the value of 3 . Using the above example in operation the LEDCount variable may be decremented by a numeric value of 1 . If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a determination is made as to whether a light or LED counter value equals the numeric value of 0 . Using the exemplary light controller program code with the variable LEDCount the value of LEDCount may be decremented by a value of 1 after a data bit capture until LEDCount reaches the value of 0 . If it is determined that the LED counter value reaches the numeric value of 0 control is passed to operation and process continues. If it is determined that the LED counter value has not reached the numeric value of 0 control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a light counter is decremented. For example in the lighting controller program code a variable such as LEDCount may be defined to correspond to a targeted LED. Using the above example in operation the LEDCount variable may be decremented by a numeric value of 1 If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a determination is made as to whether a microcontroller has accounted for all lights or LEDs associated with the microcontroller. If it is determined that the microcontroller has accounted for all light or LEDs associated with the microcontroller control is passed to operation and process continues. If it is determined that the microcontroller has not accounted for all lights or LEDs associated with the microcontroller control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation the microcontroller counter value is decremented. For example using the exemplary variable ChipCount the value of ChipCount may be incremented by a value of 1 . If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a fifth of a plurality of data bits is captured. The data capture of operation occurs through a series of lines of program code operating under the branch of the main program code. The program code may contain a carry flag for data bit capture. In operation a fifth data bit is captured and stored into the carry flag. To enable proper capture of data bits program code may be placed in the center of each data bit as an MCU receiver clock of a light strand controller may drift high or low. If a data bit is captured in operation the carry flag may be rotated into a new data variable which may be placed into a subsequent data variable for processing during a next program cycle. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation data is stored for processing. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a data register of received data is cleared. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation any external hardware interrupt flags created by the lighting controller program code may be cleared and re enabled for program restart. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a determination is made as to whether an external interrupt is detected from a signal pin. An external interrupt can detect a low high transition which corresponds to a stop start bit transition. If an external interrupt is detected control is passed to operation and process continues. If an external interrupt is not detected control remains at operation and process continues.

In operation the external interrupt detection is utilized at the start of a data word transmission to enable the light controller program to navigate to the external interrupt vector address. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation video or other visual or other information obtained during a recording process of the lighting apparatus is loaded into a software program. Visual information may be loaded into the software program by for example utilizing a GUI such as the GUI illustrated in . If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a video or any other portion of visual information is converted into individual frames. In at least one embodiment of the lighting system a software package is provided that may include a file conversion program such as any commonly available open source video conversion utility capable of converting the visual information obtained via a recording device to any desired file format. For example the original visual information transferred to the software program in operation may be converted to a compressed AVI file format via the file conversion program. The file format of the converted visual information may be any format that can allow individual frames of visual information to be extracted from the entire file. Extraction of individual frames may be facilitated by using any software application programming interface or any other software and or codec capable of extracting individual frames. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation the software program may read the converted visual information and process and or analyze any images or frames of such visual information for determining light detection. For example the software program may read a first frame of the converted visual information and thus be capable of detecting any metadata for example any dimensions of the visual information such as frame dimensions of a video frame any codec and or software used to convert and or compress the visual information information associated with the recording device such as frame rate etc. and or any other information parameters and or data available. Alternatively a user may be able to define any parameters associated with visual information. For example a user may be presented with a parameter interface such as the GUI in which a user may be able to define frame dimensions pre determined or pre defined light position s lighting apparatus quantity type size shape etc. and or any other data or information that may be used in defining an exemplary light image or map of the lighting fixture apparatus and associated lights. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation any frames associated with the visual frame information may be read processed analyzed compared and or grouped according to an index of light detection. A first frame of the converted visual information may be obtained by bypassing a portion of the visual information. For example if a sequencing event is initiated such as the calibration sequencing event of the lighting apparatus discussed in operation of process a flashing of all lights associated with the lighting fixture s may be performed to indicate that the sequencing event has commenced and such a flashing of all associated lights may be bypassed as any initial flashing of lights may for example interfere with the software program reading analysis and or processing of the visual information. A bypassing of a portion of visual information may be based on a time period a frame set or any other measurement.

The processing of operation may be done on an individual frame basis. An analysis of the visual information may include locating or detecting a first frame where a percentage and or threshold value of all lights of a frame of visual information associated with a lighting fixture are illuminated locating subsequent frame s in which a percentage or threshold which may be based on a first frame reading of all lights associated with the lighting fixture are illuminated and or any other analysis of the visual information. In performing an analysis on light illumination of the visual information the program may initially set a threshold value for light illumination. Alternatively a user may be provided with an interface such as the GUI in which a user may be able to define an initial pixel intensity threshold value which may be a numeric value. A threshold value may be a certain percentage associated with a total.

The analysis of operation may be based on any component level s . For example a pixel or any other measurement of the visual information may be analyzed to determine illumination of a light. A pixel may be considered a possibility for illumination of a light if any or all component level values of a pixel reach a certain threshold. For example if a red a green and or a blue component associated with a pixel meets and or exceeds a certain threshold value the pixel may be considered an illuminated pixel associated with an illuminated light. The information obtained from analysis of an individual pixel s of the visual information may be utilized in determining and or assigning an overall illumination value or index of a frame.

The comparing or grouping of operation may be based on a threshold value s and or an average multiplier etc. The software program may define or determine an average multiplier and or threshold value s to be utilized in determining an average or representative frame of the lighting fixture apparatus. Alternatively a user may be provided with an interface such as the GUI in which a user may be able to define a pixel difference threshold value and or pixel average multiplier etc. An average frame may be utilized in comparing or grouping frame s . For example analysis of all frames associated with the visual information may yield individual values that may be totaled and averaged into a representative frame of visual information considered a frame of visual information with all lights associated with the lighting fixture apparatus illuminated.

The software program may continue through operation until all frames associated with the visual information are read analyzed and compared. Alternatively in at least one embodiment a representation of light positioning may be produced manually or by a coupling of automatic detection utilizing the software code and manual inclusion of light positions using a matrix or sectional system. For example if the lighting fixture s is distributed in a grid format or other pre defined and or uniform positioning then an axis positioning of lights may be produced by utilizing a graphing or matrix program. Whether obtained automatically manually and or by a combination of both methods the representative frame or image or light map of visual information is utilized in determining the positioning of the lights associated with the lighting fixture s . If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation the resulting image or light map created in operation may be converted from a 2D image to a 3D representation. The 2D positioning information obtained in operation may be used to create a set of coordinates a histogram and or any other textual pictorial graphical or any other type of representation of the information. The 2D representation of light illumination information may be any set of coordinates such as axes coordinates for example Cartesian coordinates utilizing an x axis and a y axis. The 2D coordinates of each light position of the representative image or light map may in turn be utilized in rendering a 3D image based on an image based rendering algorithm. For example a lighting apparatus with identification ID tags or labels associated with each light may be distributed as desired. The tags or label IDs of a plurality of lights representative of a 3D space may be determined and or input into the software program. For example lighting fixture apparatus may be distributed on a three dimensional object such as a tree and ID tags of a sampling of lights from a top four corners and a bottom four corners may be determined and input as coordinates or otherwise into the software program. The program may use the ID tags or coordinates to render a 3D image.

Alternatively sensors such as infrared radio frequency and or other devices may be installed in or applied to any lights associated with a lighting fixture apparatus. For example an infrared sensor may be installed on each LED of an exemplary light strand such as the light strand . An infrared sensor s associated with a first light or LED may detect an infrared sensor s associated with a second light and thus detection of a relative position s of any lights associated with a lighting apparatus may be obtained. The relative position s may be input into the software program to render a 3D positioning or image of the lights associated with the lighting fixture apparatus.

Another alternative to obtain a 3D image is by utilizing spatial positioning of a recording device. For example during a recording of a calibration sequence such as in operation of process a camera or other recording device may be placed at a pre determined or fixed position s relative to the lighting fixture apparatus. A camera may be placed at a fixed distance s relative to a known orientation of a location s or object s displaying the lighting fixture apparatus. The position of any lights visible to the camera may be determined by utilizing the known positioning of the camera. For example angles and or distances may be calculated based on physical measurements taken of a fixed spatial position of a camera relative to a fixed position of a light s . A plurality of cameras and or fixed camera positions may be utilized. For example in at least one embodiment three cameras set at three separate fixed positions may record a calibration sequence of any lights associated with a lighting fixture apparatus. Using the above example the position s of the lights associated with the lighting fixture apparatus may be calculated from the three fixed camera positions and the three camera angles.

Another alternative of 3D image rendering utilizes calculations based on matrices and linear equations. For example the spatial position and orientation of a recording device may be represented by six variables. Using the above example the variables x y z may represent the position of a camera in space the variables r r r may represent the orientation of the camera and the variables x y z may represent the position of individual lights. In the example the variable n is the number of cameras or camera positions and the variable m is the number of lights associated with the lighting fixture apparatus. The exemplary variables can translate into parameters which may be input into matrix form for solving a system of linear equations. Utilizing reference points and distance s between these reference points for example by comparing these known 3D position s or coordinates to relative 2D image s the software program may calculate or create a system of linear equations. The software program may use the matrix parameters to solve the linear equations thus determining a 3D positioning of any lights. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation the 2D or 3D light positioning determined in operation is utilized by the software program to create or construct an image or light map. An exemplary light map is shown in GUI . If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation an image or light map is displayed to a user. The image displayed may be represented by light and or dark areas. For example the representative light map is shown to contain light circles representing lights or LEDs that have had their positions detected by the software program and a dark background representing unlit areas. The image displayed to a user may be a 2D or 3D representation depending on which method of image rendering was utilized in operation . If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation the image reconstruction resulting from operation may be modified. A representation of light positioning may be produced manually utilizing the software and or any manual or user defined inclusion of light positions using matrices and or a coordinate or sectional system may be utilized. For example if a lighting fixture s is distributed in a grid format or other pre defined and or uniform positioning then coordinates representing a positioning of lights may be produced by utilizing a graphing or matrix algorithm of the software program. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation a user is provided with the ability to select and or design a sequence or display information. For example the software program may include a front end as illustrated by the GUIs of . The software program may provide a user with the ability to design display features graphics animations and or any other static and or visual information that may be included in a display and or other visual program utilizing any lights associated with the light fixture s . A user may be provided with selections or selectable options and or provided with the ability to design his or her own display or program based on any given display features. If operation is complete control is passed to operation and process continues.

In operation any sequence or display information designed and or selected in operation is processed by the software program to enable output to the lighting controller. The program may process information into any file format that may be compatible with a lighting controller. If operation is complete process completes if a user completes his or her utilization of the software program.

The window controls may include any commonly known GUI window controls such as a close minimize and or restore or maximize control. The main menu controls may include menu headers associated with the software program. For example as illustrated in the main menu controls include a File an Edit and a Help selectable menu headers. The submenu controls may include additional selectable menu headers that may be used to navigate through portions of the software program.

The tabs represent the selectable controls that may be used to navigate between the two main interfaces presented in the exemplary software embodiment illustrated by . The tab may be used to open the Animation Mode interface as illustrated in . The tab may be used to open the Display Design interface as illustrated in . The Animation Mode window may be utilized for the design and or selection of a sequence of an image s animated image s text video s or effect elements or any individual such element. The Animation Mode interface may be utilized independent of the existence of any display or light map. The Display Design window may be utilized for an initial creation of a representative light image or map.

The display bar may display a graphical textual or other representation of any images animations sequences etc. designed in the Animation Mode interface. The time scale bar represents a relative time scale or duration for any sequence displayed in the display bar . The selection control may be used to select any image animation and or sequence or other design element displayed in the display bar . The display bar control may be used to scroll or navigate through the display bar to display additional images animations sequences etc. contained in the display bar but not visible due to constraints of an available viewing area on a user system computer screen and or limited by a programmed size of the GUI . The zoom controls may contain a Zoom In control and a Zoom Out control . The zoom controls may be used to display a larger or smaller time scale and or time increments for ease of viewing animations images or sequences displayed in the display bar . As illustrated in the display bar and selection control may comprise a row for example a sector animation design row. A plurality of such rows may be included in GUI that corresponds to the number of sectors or sector grids added to a light map. For example numerous sector grids may be assigned and or placed on the light map or rendered image loaded into the software program. While GUI illustrates an exemplary sector grid any number of sector grids may be assigned to a light map contained in the sector window . For example if three sectors are assigned to a light map three display bars may be displayed in the GUI .

The video simulation control may be used to generate a visual simulation output of the display that has been designed utilizing the software program. The export control may be used to export the designed display to a file format that may be compatible with any number of multimedia programs. For example selection of the export control may result in the software program processing any display information contained in the display bar for output as display sequence file that may be capable of being read by a lighting controller of the lighting system .

The sector window may be used to display a light map or image created by the software program during the process . The sector window may display the relative positioning or location s of any lights associated with a lighting fixture apparatus and or allow selection of any portions or sectors of the displayed light map. The user controls may be used to create load alter save and or make selections of a light map associated with the sector window . For example the Create Light Map from Video control may allow a user to open and or select a video file contained in any available memory storage device to be used in the creation of a light positioning image or light map by the software program as described in the process . The Save Light Map control may allow a user to save a light map displayed in the sector window to any available memory storage device. The Load Light Map control may allow a user to load a light map created during a software program process or any other available light map or position image such as any light position image stored on an associated memory storage device into the sector window . The control may be used to load any light map that has been saved to a file extension associated with light positioning image s or light map s . The Insert New Sector control may allow a user to select a portion or selection of a light map displayed in the sector window . If a user selects the Insert New Sector control a sector grid such as the sector grid of may be displayed in the sector window . The Save Sector Layout control may allow a user to save any layout of a sector grid s displayed in the sector window . The Load Sector Layout control may allow a user to load any saved sector layout into the sector window .

The animation addition control may allow a user to add an animation s image s and or other design element s to a desired sector grid displayed in the sector window . A sector grid may be selected by utilizing the sector selection control . The sector selection control may be embodied as a text box drop down menu and or other control that may allow a user to select a sector grid that corresponds to a numerical value. For example a first of a plurality of sector grids may be assigned the numerical value of 0 . Using this example a user may add a design element to the sector grid 0 by selecting the number 0 in the sector selection control .

The animation property window may display any data information parameters and or properties associated with a desired sector as selected by the sector selection control . The animation property window includes the animation selection text box animation selection browse control initiation time controls and duration time controls . The animation selection text box may allow a user to input a file name and or other identifier associated with design element file or resource. For example an image contained on any memory storage device such as an image embodied as a GIF PNG or JPG may be input into the text box . Alternatively the animation selection browse control may allow a user to browse to any location on a memory storage device associated with a user system and or select a design element to load into the software program. The initiation time controls may allow a user to select and or view a time that may be embodied as initiation time minutes and or initiation time seconds that corresponds to an initiation or start time for a design element on the time scale bar . The duration time controls may allow a user to select and or view a time that may be embodied as duration time minutes and or duration time seconds that corresponds to a duration of time for a design element on the time scale bar .

The lighting system parameter controls may include controls to input and or select a number of lighting controllers or control boxes and or number of lighting strands or other lighting fixture apparatus associated with the lighting system. The lighting system parameters may be utilized by the software program in calculating and or determining a percentage or other representative value of lights detected or mapped versus a total value of lights associated with the lighting system. The parameter user controls may include any commonly known GUI controls such as a Reset to Defaults control an OK control and a Cancel control . The Reset to Defaults control may allow a user to return any parameter controls of the GUI to their default or system defined values. For example the default parameter values may be originally set by the software program to be values that may be utilized positively in several different instances. The OK control may allow a user to accept any parameters contained in the GUI and apply them to the light mapping operation of the process . Alternatively the Cancel control may allow a user to cancel any changes or modifications to the parameters of the GUI and or close or exit out from the window.

The GUI may be displayed to a user for the design and or selection of a display sequence. The animation bars may include any number of bars or rows in which a design element may be added. A plurality of animation bars may be included in GUI that corresponds to the number of individual animation designs that a user may be concurrently designing or selecting limited by for example a user system s resources.

Design elements may be added to the animation bars by any available means. For example by using a mouse a user may right click the area of an animation bar to be prompted to select a design element to add to the animation bar . For example GUI illustrates a pop up window that may allow a user to select a design element from a given list or menu to be added to an animation bar . If a selection on the window is made a user may be prompted to input and or browse to a memory storage location where a design element file s is located. A selected design element may be displayed in an animation bar according to its corresponding visual representation included in the design element legend . For example each design element such as a text element an image element an animation element an effect element etc. may be represented by a plurality of dissimilarly sized shaped and or colored boxes. For example GUI illustrates a text design element representation and a static image element representation in an animation bar. A user may click on or select any design element representation displayed in the animation bars to display any properties associated with a design element in the design element property window .

The animation time scale bar represents a relative time scale or duration for any design element displayed in the animation bar . The selection controls may be used to select any image animation sequence or other design element displayed in the animation bars . As illustrated in the Select All control may be used to select all design elements of the animation bar and the Select All control may be used to select all design elements of the animation bar . A selection of all design elements contained in an animation bar may facilitate a user to save a design configuration of an entire animation or sequence display. The animation bar control may be used to scroll or navigate through the animation bars to display additional images animations sequences etc. that may be contained in animation bar but not visible due to constraints of an available viewing area on a user system computer screen and or limited by a programmed size of the GUI . The zoom controls may contain a Zoom In control and a Zoom Out control . The zoom controls may be used to display a larger or smaller time scale and or time increments for ease of viewing animations images or other design elements displayed in the animation bars .

As illustrated in the design element property window contains a resize checkbox a design element text box a design element selection browse control initiation time controls duration time controls scrolling direction control display text control save control image view effect text box effect selection browse control and effect checkbox .

The resize checkbox may be selected by a user to allow the software to resize a design element to fit or correlate with any parameters associated with the representative light map contained in the sector window . For example a parameter associated with a size of a defined sector or sector grid may have an effect on a size and or shape of the design element that may be assigned and or displayed in the sector. For example the exemplary sector grid of GUI represents a small corner portion of the light map of GUI . Alternatively the exemplary sector grid of GUI represents a relatively larger portion of the light map . Therefore as sector grid may include any or all of a light map various defined sectors may be limited in the size and or shape of a design element that may be displayed. As illustrated in the GUI a light map such as the light map may be larger than the sector window such that the scrollable controls may be used to scroll or navigate through sector window to display additional areas or portions of a representative light map that may be loaded but not visible due to constraints of an available viewing area on a user system computer screen and or limited by a programmed size of the GUI.

A design element text box may allow a user to view input and or modify a file name and or other identifier associated with design element file or resource. For example GUI illustrates a text design element representation in the animation bar . If a user selects to view any properties associated with the text design element the design element text box may be populated with the exemplary data . For example in GUI the file property data of the text design element includes the exemplary data as a file location with a file extension of .txt . Alternatively a user may select a design element selection browse control . The design element selection browse control may allow a user to browse to any location on a memory storage device associated with a user system and or select a design element to load into the software program.

The initiation time controls may allow a user to select and or view a time that may be embodied as initiation time minutes and or initiation time seconds that corresponds to an initiation or start time for a selected design element on the animation time scale bar . The duration time controls may allow a user to select and or view a time that may be embodied as duration time minutes and or duration time seconds that corresponds to a duration of time for a design element on the animation time scale bar . For example the exemplary initiation data and exemplary duration data of GUI illustrate that a selected design element such as the text design element is to start its associated effect on the display sequence at 0.46 seconds on the animation time scale bar and run or continue for a duration of 10.00 seconds .

The scrolling direction control may allow a user to select or assign a spatial direction for creating the effect of scrolling text . For example the exemplary scrolling direction data of GUI illustrates that a selected design element such as the text design element is not to scroll as the data illustrates the text No Scroll . Alternatively if a user enters the direction Right in the scrolling direction control the selected design element may scroll from the left to right in the associated display sequence.

The display text control may allow a user to view and or enter simple keyboard entry text. For example the exemplary display text of GUI illustrates that a selected design element such as the text design element displays the text Welcome to Galaxia . Alternatively if a user desires to enter simple text by for example bypassing a selection of a .txt or other text file a user may be able of entering any desired text utilizing the display text control . A save control may allow any user entered text displayed in the display text control to a resource file. For example if a user desires to input and or modify any text displayed in the display text control a text file such as a resource file with a .txt file extension may be saved to a user system associated memory storage device.

The image view may display a thumbnail icon and or other visual representation of a selected design element. For example in the GUI if a user selects to display the properties of the static image element representation and the static image design element represented by is a static image of a cat then a thumbnail of a cat may be displayed in the image view . The effect text box may allow a user to view input and or modify a file name and or other identifier associated an effect file or resource. For example the software program may be populated with various non positional effects such as any commonly known lighting effect for example a twinkling effect a chasing effect and or a fading effect etc. The effect selection browse control may allow a user to browse to any location on a memory storage device associated with a user system and or select any program or file associated with an effect to load into the software program. The effect checkbox may allow a user to select and or deselect any application of an effect contained in the effect text box for execution during a display sequence.

If a user has completed the design process associated with the GUIs a user may indicate completion by exporting a completed display sequence to a file format that may be compatible with the lighting system controller. For example a user may select the export control to initiate processing of a completed display sequence. As illustrated in GUI if a user initiates processing of a display sequence a progress bar may be displayed. The progress bar may indicate the advancement or status of the system program in processing a display sequence. The progress bar may indicate completion of display sequence processing by for example displaying a full or completed progress bar. The file exported as a result of the display sequence processing may be any file type that is compatible with the lighting controller of the lighting system . For example any proprietary and or commonly known multimedia file extension may be used that is able to be read and or processed by the lighting controller to display a display sequence utilizing any lights associated with the lighting fixture apparatus.

