---

title: System for location in environment and identification tag
abstract: A system for location of animals and/or objects in an environment includes a signal processing and signal generation system consisting of electromagnetic tags on animals (or other objects) in an environment (typically a three dimension outdoor natural environment) where the animals or objects are physically present at arbitrary locations, and an electro-magnetic signal generating, signal receiving, and signal processing system that can move through or in relation to the environment. The system can compute the location and identity of the animals or objects based on signals received from their associated tags, including the calculated location of the ID tags, which function as “Reader-Locators.” The calculated location is enhanced by information about the environment provided by maps, satellite photos, GPS, GIS and/or other data specific to the probability of the location of the animals or objects within certain regions of the environment. The system includes a physical and electromagnetic modeling operation that is interactive with the environmental information derived from the actual environment, either historically or in “real-time” as the monitoring process occurs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09489813&OS=09489813&RS=09489813
owner: 
number: 09489813
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20081006
---
This application claims priority from and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 148 215 filed Apr. 15 2008 which is a continuation in part of Ser. No. 11 904 035 filed Sep. 24 2007 and from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 846 687 filed Sep. 22 2006 and from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 994 937 filed Sep. 21 2007 and which are all incorporated by reference herein including all appendices thereto.

The development of this invention was supported at least in part by the Small Business Innovation Research Contract No. FA930206M0012. Accordingly the United States Government may have certain rights in the present invention.

The present invention relates to an electronic identification and tracking of mobile or arbitrarily located objects particularly wild animals within a three dimensional environment. Its primary applications involve automated tracking from distances of zero up to 1 km or more using small light weight devices tags that require no direct power source or regular maintenance or servicing.

This disclosure describes an improved system for tracking and uniquely identifying individual wild animals and other objects. Tracking wildlife has become an extremely important tool for studying and managing both endangered species and animals of economic and scientific importance including wildlife and pests. Traditional methods of tracking wildlife using VHF transmitters are problematic because they often require post processing and triangulation to calculate location with wide margins of error involving much wandering or meandering to locate a signal and use transmitters that are often too large or heavy to be used with much efficiency on small or growing animals.

A goal of the present invention is to achieve a system that will provide identification and location information for objects or animals such as desert tortoises within a defined geographic area and over a definite time period. A thorough consideration of the available and emerging technologies lead the present inventor to conclude that a combination of technologies is preferred as most appropriate to satisfy a three stage or multi stage process for tracking or locating objects such as tortoises.

Stage One involves acquiring location and perhaps identity data likely from an airborne platform e.g. airplane UAV satellite etc. that will cover the entire study area relatively quickly and greatly reducing signal loss and degradation from ground and vegetation effects. This could possibly be done by using temporary mast mounted antennas in fixed locations to be moved sequentially through the study area during the survey process or moving arrays of antennas with fixed or known spatial relationship to each other. GPS data maybe gathered regarding the location of the arrays or individual antennas.

Using GPS based data from Stage One Stage Two would use a small or mid sized vehicle such as an SUV van or all terrain vehicle. Stage Three would use a lightweight backpack mounted receiving system with short range antenna borne by a person robot or moving platform such as a Segway transporter to hone in more on the study objects or animals for more accurately to provide real time location and possibly identification. If an aircraft is not available or allowed a two stage system may be used ground based mobile vehicle and backpack mounted apparatus .

Finally Stage Three would allow for direct observation and retrieval of the study animals and guarantee positive identification. The tortoise location and ID project which provided background application for the invention precluded the use of fixed structures like towers since these provide nesting and observation platforms for their worst predators ravens. For this reason the mobile approach was mandated.

The present inventor considered use of a simple combination of two or even three different technologies such as a harmonic radar tag and passive RFID to provide locating functionality at medium to long range and individual identification at close range. The present inventor determined the practicality of combining functionality into a single package or a single device such as a passive or active RFID tag that also functions as a harmonic radar target and other combinations of relevant technologies and associated apparatus.

As noted above an objective of the preferred embodiment is to achieve this extremely high performance through a systems approach in which each component of the system is an integral part of the process and the efficiency and accuracy of the readings and the design process is conducted accordingly. Such a system consists of several components or subsystems 1. tag s transmitting device s located on a tortoise or other wildlife or object 2. reader receiver to activate tag and receive data or to simply receive data 3. data interface 4. computer system 5. dynamic database consisting of data storage complex computation presentation and real time interpretation capabilities and 6. real time bi directional data transmission network between all reader devices or stations and the main database and utilizing non interfering data gathering signal frequencies or protocols between tag and readers. The design features of each component of an ideal system are constrained by a series of 1 tortoise 2 object or asset reader or data gathering station and 3 study imposed constraints as discussed above. Depending on the embodiment frequency bandwidth and other signal generating coding and propagation factors are made to yield the optimum combination of transmission range location accuracy power efficiency etc. within constraints for lawful and practical operation.

In light of the difficulties with using any one particular technology to satisfy all of the needs of this system a multi staged process is preferred. For example a wide beamed interrogation signal would be emitted into the area to stimulate a passive or semi active tag to transmit its signal with sufficient energy to be detected up to 1 km away. In addition and alternatively a self programmed beacon signal would be emitted by the system that would then be switched to Stage two which would more narrowly beam a more directed signal to the desired tag thus stimulating location and identity information from a separate RFID based passive tag which can be received at 30 100 m or more. For wildlife applications we also recommend for life long identity assurance a traditional low frequency ultra miniature 8 mm 2 mm e.g. 134.2 MHz RFID tag be implanted into all animals for identification at distances of several cm up to approximately 1 m.

The tracking tag is a unique design that combines one or more battery powered beacon signal generators in addition to other ID location signal generators. The signal generator would be operated by a combination of scheduled transmissions initiated by either an internal clock calendar integrated circuit IC and or an externally generated wakeup signal generated by readers. The system would include semi active UHF or VHF tag generating either in backscatter harmonic reflective or active transmission made in response to an RF interrogation signal emitted by a reader unit at mid range likely 1 to 50 m. Power for various tag operations is obtained from a primary battery secondary battery or super capacitor energized by energy harvesting elements on the tag such as photovoltaic cell motion sensing microelectronic generator or RF absorbing and rectifying apparatus for obtaining power from an ambient RF signal from a nearby interrogation unit. The medium range function may also be a SAW element which is most efficient and not an active electronic circuit HR harmonic radar reflector element standard UHF RFID IC combination SAW HR RFID element or in certain situations the beacon transmitter could be activated by sufficiently powerful external energy supply sunlight or nearby RF source and wake up signal .

In the preferred mode of operation the tag will spend most of its time as does the tortoise to which it is attached in a sleep mode. To save power and increase the life of the unit a clock calendar which runs for the operational life of the tag supplied by the primary battery plus any other energy that can be harvested and diverted to it has a sleep wake schedule programmed into it at the time of deployment. During periods of time pre arranged for the location ID surveys by the survey scheduling teams or computer algorithm the tag status shifts to a receptive condition. This means that the tag can be activated to transmit a beacon signal presumably at a time when population surveys are planned to be conducted by the project team.

If the tag is exposed to sunlight or energy is generated by tortoise movement then the internal solar cells will charge either a secondary battery or a super capacitor to provide enough energy for a strong beacon signal. The presence of sunlight also means that the tortoise is above ground and signal transmission is likely to be at an optimum condition for reception by a distant receiver reader. If there is no sunlight or energy harvest of other type during the receptive time period then the tag can emit a lower level beacon signal at a specific time period which will provide a worst case opportunity for surveyors to detect a signal and take other measures to locate the tag likely by performing a more detailed sweep over the general area in which the signal is detected . The beacon pulse from the tag may be a short burst of RF signal from an RF oscillator tuned to a specific frequency or it may simply be an impulse into a highly resonant antenna that will generate an exponentially decaying burst at the selected frequency.

Beacon pulses can be combined in timed pairs to provide ID information in addition to a location burst. The first pulse of each sequence is provided according to a relatively long e.g. 1 to 10 seconds time interval. The second pulse is provided at an identifying time interval with respect to the first pulse.

A sequence of these pulse pairs is repeated over a period of time for example 1 5 minutes in which many repetitions of the pulse codes are made. The tag is decoded by the reader based on the proportionality of the time between the two pulses. Since many tags may be present and active at a given time period the pulse codes are to be designed so that tag ID indeterminacy is eliminated. Given the relatively small number of ID codes the short time length of the signal pulses and the relatively long time gap between pulses such a collision proof code system will be feasible.

An active tag includes a battery and sends a burst signal on receipt of a stimulating signal or at a pre programmed time interval. It would be possible to recharge the battery at close range with the tortoise held in the charging field using energy harvesting. Tags functioning in the 900 MHz and 2.4 GHz bandwidths may be able to take advantage of existing active and passive radar technologies including ground penetrating radar however a strong burst signal could be possibly too strong to be safe for the tortoise but not for other non endangered animal or inanimate objects. Energy harvesting sources for recharging active tags could include the sun or a microelectronic mechanical system that recovers energy from the tortoises movements much like a self winding wristwatch except generating electrical charge for storage or immediate operation .

The tag also includes a passive or semi passive element for location at intermediate range 1 30 meters to save energy from the battery when more frequent integrations and responses are needed to located the tag precisely from an intermediate range. This may be a SAW surface acoustic wave harmonic radar energy accumulating discharge flashbulb standard passive UHF RFID or combination. This allows the tag position to be located exactly once the long distance locating system has determined its most probable area of location and a person or robot etc with a hand carried medium short range locator ID reader has moved close to the location that was predicted. No energy from the tag s primary battery is required for this medium to close range location technique. One possible embodiment is inductive coupling of the code generator to the antenna using a coupled inductor to another inductor that also functions to tune the resonance of the harmonic reflector circuit and frequency conversion may be as needed such as 114 or 164 MHz.

A recent technological advance is the ultra miniaturization of 164 MHz radio transmitters used since the 1960s for tracking larger wildlife including adult desert tortoises. One recent study effectively affixed 0.600 mg battery powered radio transmitters to dragonflies and studies have been done with sparrows . Although the operational life of the tags were only 2 3 weeks their effective tracking by land vehicle and airplane suggests that this traditional radio transmitter technology can possibly be used after further modifications according to the present invention.

Energy harvesting micropower clocks improved antenna design plus a number of recently evolved enhancements to the reader locator system including a spatial probabilistic data filter and processing system can all potentially result in successful use of this technology according to the length of lifetime and effective range requirements. One significant advantage would be that biologists might be able to use existing telemetry equipment thus saving financial resources in projects that might not require the high accuracy and long life of the present requirement or could be used in conjunction with or in addition to the reading locating equipment of the present invention in cases in which the location of the animal or object has been determined recently and not much variation in location is expected.

The tag for tracking tortoises would be designed to fit on a single scute of a juvenile desert tortoise. The tag base can function as a patch antenna. In addition one or two wire antennas could additionally be attached to the tortoise shell on a number of scutes but permitting growth of the tortoise by a flexible wire that can be pulled through separate guide tubes on each scute as the tortoise grows. Tags can be custom designed to any particularly animal species or other asset that needs to be tracked in terms of size distance of location tag longevity power supply mounting on animal or object etc. within the scope and limitations of the invention described within.

A signal received by the tag from an activating reader antenna which can be at a resonant frequency of the tag s antenna likely 165 MHz 916 MHz 2.4 GHz or microwave including other bands in which licensed operation is not required would activate a passive diode detector switch on circuit or wake up which requires no operating power from the battery powered circuit .

The tag thus activated would emit an additional closely spaced series of RF bursts. The reader will be within a relatively close range 1 100 meters . When the tag is located found and accessed it can be re programmed and possibly re charged using a reasonably strong RF field or light source over a period of several minutes. Even if no solar power is available the tag can be instructed to use power from its primary battery to perform re programming of tag data to alter the initially pre determined beacon signal schedule.

The schedule override may be activated optimally from an aircraft based platform sending a strong microwave signal towards the ground and moving across a grid pattern to cover all area to be studied or activated for un scheduled surveys. This method can also be utilized for the scheduled surveys when the tag is in the receptive mode already to more precisely trigger the timing of tag transmission of beacon bursts and thus economize more energy. In the absence of an aircraft based wake up operation the operation might have to be performed by vehicle or hand carried apparatus at much closer range than permitted by the specified 2 km road spacing indicated in the tortoise tracking system of the invention. Other systems might have different specifications.

Tag readers locators and the structure of the data encoding the ID invention are integral parts of the same system. The reader must be able to send an optimal interrogation signal of the appropriate frequency and amplitude to stimulate the tag device except for scheduled tag beacon signals . In passive RFID and Harmonic Radar systems the interrogation signal must also include sufficient power to energize the tag to operate effectively and send its encoded or beacon identification. The reader must then be able to detect the returned signal or beacon and decode and analyze it to determine the tag s identity for RFID and or its location.

The reader consists of 1 electronics package for energy transmission and or data to the tag 2. Antenna or antennas at least one for sending power and or interrogation signals and at least one or more for receiving tag signals. The same antenna might in some cases be used for both sending and receiveing. 3. Receiver and analog signal processing for acquiring tag signal and a digital processor for digital signal computations and 4. two way independent of tag communication RF communication of reader data to main system or other communication network nodes.

One subsystem of the tortoise reader system is a receiver only system if the tag or one of multiple tag devices is self activated or otherwise independent of a reader signal cf. active RFID technology or telemetry beacon signaling . The reader antenna system consisting of two or more antennas mounted on poles at a distance of at least 3 meters between antennas will likely be vehicle mounted for widest range. This portable version would probably use a single directional antenna. The antenna would likely emit a RADAR interrogation signal and possibly an RFID type signal if needed for close up identification. In addition the hand carried unit may contain one or more temporary antenna stations affixed to short poles or a tripod and would be in communication with the on foot researcher and the mobile laboratory. These combined antenna locations can provide for triangulation of the signal source to further improve range and accuracy.

For example the on foot researcher would have a mobile locating device and optionally an auxiliary fixed point antenna. The antenna might be placed in a fixed position where a possible clear signal is first received. It would either have its own GPS compass or its location orientation would be entered by the on foot researcher. The on foot researcher then proceeds in search. The signals received by the fixed antenna would be transmitted to the locator computer either in the main lab vehicle or locally to the researcher location device. This enables powerful triangulation and time of arrival data from two or more local receivers as opposed to just one. Alternatively a single antenna carried by the researcher may be used as the search device.

The on foot researcher also employs appropriate transport vehicles for use in difficult terrain for example the Dean Kamen U.S. Pat. No. 7 131 706 and other two wheeled self balancing transport device. Also numerous new miniature aerial remote controlled vehicles could be deployed to operate at low altitude by researchers.

It should be noted that a probabilistic spatial filter may be used in widely varying location acquisition contexts. For example if the survey period is relatively frequent compared to the speed of the tortoise or object or asset being tracked then a factor of the location probability would be the maximum distance that the tortoise asset or object could have traveled in any given direction from the time of its last confirmed location based on its top speed and the time elapsed between surveys. This calculation can be further refined by referencing the terrain map and compensating for topographical factors that preclude travel in a given direction to set a limit on a top speed of movement in that direction.

In cases where the asset is fast moving hundreds or thousands mile per hour and surveys are the high frequency second milliseconds microseconds etc this same technique still provides computational advantage over other location projection mechanism.

In addition to location the same method might just as well provide probability of direction and speed traveled or other information about aspects of location and trajectory that can be related to known maps and characteristics of the animal asset or object. Finally it should be noted that even without a location or a data tag on the animal asset or object the PSF Probabilistic Spatial Filter method is still applicable as long as its animal or asset possible location can be estimated by any signal acquisition method radar etc and any data regarding the probability function of an object in the 3D space exists and any prior location information exact or approximate regarding the object exist. This extends the utility of the PSF to virtually any location system that can derive a signal from the animal or assets with or without a prior knowledge of identity.

Operationally the system would work as follows. One or more trackers would be looking for the beacon signal from the air or a ground based lab vehicle using a sensor network and real time computer based map. When a signal is received the tracker s location and or telemetry is relayed to the database along with the exact time of detection and information if any of the direction and distance to the tag. The dual antennas on the lab van would allow for signal detection and direction finding by at least one or more of time of arrival phase and signal strength or other detection signals. The database stores the information and compares it to a map or other coordinate location reference. The database computes the direction and distance to the object based on historical data reported observations and computer model of tortoise habitat. The database then sends probable location data to the trackers who use it to refine their search. The process continues until the actual location is determined.

The dynamic database programmed within the receiver system would serve two sets of functions using essentially the same dataset. It can be pre loaded with all available GIS based and other spatial data about the terrain from various resources and also updated with real time information during the search photographs video etc. . The first function is a probabilistic spatial filter to be used in conjunction with real time data from the antenna system in connection with preliminary location calculations. These data would pre define the probability function of a valid signal from a tortoise within the terrain. The probability function would be based on a prior knowledge of the terrain features previous data if any on tortoise or burrow locations and a probability function of tortoise location based on terrain features and tortoise knowledge. For example a probability of 0.0 would be assigned for inside a large boulder 1.0 for flat ground in the open near a burrow 1.0 for foliage patches known to be attractive to the tortoises. Probability values between 0 and 1 may be used based on finer gradations of knowledge of the geographical and other features in the area and the baits of the animals or usual movement trajectories of objects in and through the area or volume. For example variable likelihood will depend on known tortoise presence at each location based on historical data from the local tortoise population. When a beacon signal is received by the system the database probability function would be combined with the reader antenna probability function according to one or more computational algorithms to reduce artifacts like reflections noise and degradations and give a more concentrated cloud of estimated locations thus greatly increasing the probability that the tortoise is within the area defined based on received signal and probability map.

The system operator would have the option to use either the original signal cloud the probability corrected cloud or an overlay of both over laid on a map like or photographic representation of the area in which the search is being conducted. The PSF will be based on fully updated 3 D real time database that 1 computes probable location and 2 displays tortoise locations. Therefore the second function of the database is the more obvious one of displaying the geographic terrain data along with all recorded measurements of tortoise related information accrued through this study prior studies or related studies that can be used in this context. This real time graphical database information can additionally be utilized online by anyone who needs access to its information. Our initial system design utilizes besides the real time communications network of operational systems USGS Digital Elevation Models DEM s as a preliminary basis for our geographic database with real time GPS inputs. The real time GPS compass inputs will establish the exact location and orientation of each reader unit and help compute the predicted tortoise location. The actual database will eventually consist of GIS based data layers such as soils and land cover types acquired from various public and commercial sources. The computation of initial probability cloud by antenna signal analysis and further refinement by the probability map are considered essential functions of the locating system s signal processing routine.

With this refined real time probability of location information likely obtained from the vehicle mounted system with the longest possible range a more specific search likely by a hand carried reader antenna will be made to successively approximate the location of the tag until it is found and verified. The need for hand carried or even smaller sized mobile tracking units is based on the assumption that the primary land vehicle might not have the capacity to explore dense shrubbery or other habitats inaccessible to the large vehicle. The exact location would then be entered automatically into the historical database which further modifies the pre defined model. The hand carried unit also interacts in real time by cellular or independent telemetry with the mobile unit both are updated immediately by information detected at the hand carried unit. Instead of guiding the hand carried unit by antenna positioning and beep loudness a real time map like visual display of the reader the terrain and the likely tortoise location will be used in addition to the antenna orientation of the medium range reader.

This real time database is an integral part of the tracking system because it provides increasingly accurate information about exact locations and possible movements of tortoises for display and archival purposes as well as providing the real time probability function for computation of estimated location during a survey or search. For initial surveys the PSF system will help the on foot researcher locate the animals accurately with minimum effort. As the system gains historical data and improves on estimation algorithms it is possible that it will provide a single step process mobile tracking only and eliminate the need for on foot tracking in the majority of surveys where only the animal s location is needed.

In the full scope of the location and identification system can be realized from the combination of the various individual parts that make it. A tortoise has an affixed tag which in some embodiments is activated by interrogation signals sent by RF antennas . The same antenna receives long range burst signals from tag and the signal likely amplified by RF preamps recorded with equipment such as an oscilloscope or spectrum analyzer . These may later be replaced by receiving and analysis systems that do not have displays. The outputs of these preamp signal analysis instruments are sent digitized to the computer system in the primary location system. A GPS and compass determine the position of the primary location system assuming it is a mobile system. The computer system computes a probable location of the activated tag which is combined with GPS and compass data as well as historical data in order to calculate a refined area of probable location. This process is accomplished by SOFTWARE resident in the computer . The software consists at least of INTERFACE Programs to link the external devices to the computer and digital information processing programs application programs . These application programs provide at least the following functions computation of the location of the LOCATING SYSTEM at which the signals from the tag are being received. computation of the DETECTION of a signal from at least one tag computation of a probability function indicating the DIRECTION from which the signal is apparently located and computation of the probable function DISTANCE at which the tag signal is located. This determines the first approximation of the LOCATION of the tag. This approximation is refined by a SPATIAL PROBABILISTIC FILTER program to be explained later. The resulting information of the location system and the PROBABLE LOCATION of the tag are then displayed on a MAP of the relevant area in terms of terrain geographical position geological and other features supplied from the DATA BASE . The DISPLAY conveys this visual information within the primary location system and also transmits a reproduction of the display information to one or more remote stations later diagram . All these functions are accessible through the CONTROL INTERFACE likely resident in the primary location system and accessible by the user operator . Information may also be sent to a remote BASE STATION for permanent and nonvolatile storage. The information from the main display and other relevant information are sent through a separate COMMUNICATION CHANNEL or RF COMMUNICATION INTERFACE to one or more REMOTE LOCATING DEVICES . One possible embodiment of remote devices can be used to verify the location of tag . Note that the remote device also has antennas and can be used with different RF technologies for closer range location of the tag and could have its own GPS and COMPASS to determine its position within the larger map of the primary location device and generate a closer range map possibly in communication and cooperation with the primary location device and so the close range system and its operator are also guided by visual display maps and possibly other indicators to help determine the close range location of the tag. All close range data is communicated to the primary location system and the location map is continuously refined until the tag is exactly located. All data is recorded into database and may be uploaded to a base station for further analysis. In the case that the tag is activated by an ACTIVATION SIGNAL sent from the primary location system that activation signal may be generated by the COMPUTER which controls and activates a signal generator that feeds RF power amplifier which transmits the radio signal using the same or different RF ANTENNAS that are used to pick up the Beacon and or ID signal from the tag. Note that the ID of the tag may be implicit in the beacon signal and thus established upon detection of the tag in the range of the primary location system or the ID of the tag may only be established at close or zero range by the secondary on foot location system s . Note also that the Remote hand carried device may also send out activation signals to the tag. Either the primary location system or the remote location system may also send out sufficient RF POWER to supply operating power to the tag. All signals of this type activation and or interrogation signals from either remote or close range transmit receive antennas to from the tag are denoted by .

The mobile lab carries all instrumentation and powering equipment and in addition provides a comfortable living walking space for extended missions in hostile climate areas. The mobile lab and its equipment depicted here are just one of any number of specific embodiments for the primary location system mentioned previously in .

The Mobile Lab is constructed from a modified camper van which is able to navigate desert dirt roads in most seasonal conditions. As such it provides all necessities for multiple day trips through the desert including overnight accommodations cooking hygiene and internal toilet and air conditioning. To support the operation of the lab during fixed location surveys a 3000 watt gasoline powered generator is provided for running air conditioning all electrical services and stable AC power. AC is needed for running all the electronic test and computer equipment used both in the Research and Development phase for the system and final embodiments of the electronic and computer equipment. The lab van has attached to its top a removable antenna support structure which can be disassembled such that the vehicle can use surface roads and freeways in traveling to its destinations in the desert for its survey work. When assembled on top of the van the antenna system is made as long wide and high as the vehicle will support either for slow but continuous travel on desert dirt roads for taking measurements for faster survey completion or for stopping at definite locations along the survey route and taking measurements for greater accuracy. In a preferred embodiment the antenna structure has four vertical masts extending to a total height of about 7 meters or more. Height of antennas is very important in finding signal sources that are either embedded or are on the surface of the desert substrate. Preferably the sources are as far as possible above foliage and rocks which progressively attenuate radio signals in a straight line path between the lab van and the tags. This will be discussed in more detail later. Distance between antennas is also maximized to provide the best possible accuracy in triangulation estimate of tag locations. These estimates are based on arrival time of tag signals at different antennas amplitude of signals and other aspects of signal that can be sensed at different but precisely co located antennas. A GPS compass antenna at a central or other definite location of the antenna array provides the location of the lab structure and consequently the location of each antenna on it.

Many types of antennas may be used and it is contemplated that multiple antennas will be used on each mast. For example antennas and and may be omnidirectional whip antennas at wave or wave lengths depending on the frequency in use. The omnidirectional antennas while not as sensitive as some other types provide a well defined receiving point from which arrival time waveform shape and other location determining information may be derived from any signal source equally in any direction from the antenna array. Antennas numbered for all locations on array may be directional YAGI type antennas which provide good signal gain at the resonant frequency in a particular direction as differentiated from other directions. These antennas may be mounted facing at fixed directions to obtain better differentiation of direction of incoming signals. Alternatively they may be mounted on rotatable mechanisms. In this embodiment they may be swept circularly like radar to scan the area omnidirectionally but with more signal gain than with nonpolarized antennas. The antennas may also be selectively rotated until the highest signal input is obtained from each antenna further helping to accurately calculate the apparent position and distance of the signal source.

More directional antennas such as parabolic beam forming reflectors may also be mounted on the mast and used in a manner similar to the directional YAGI antennas. Additionally the highly focused beam forming properties of parabolic antennas or similarly motivated designs may be used to direct outgoing wake up or powering energy to directions of likely tag location delivering signals that may be strong enough to either wake up or even power a tag for return signal generation. Less directional antennas would not direct enough energy.

The van lab may also carry temporary fixed point masts and antennae not shown in diagram which might be powered either by a cable from the van or self powered by battery solar or generator power. These antennas would provide more distant triangulation points without the deleterious effect of permanent masts that could provide housing or vantage points for predators .

Note that the tortoise will almost always be in physical contact with the substrate or ground on which it lives. The electrical impedance of this contact may possibly be used as a design factor or alternatively it may be eliminated as a design factor if no good use for the variable impedance connection can be found and no significant effect on operation is expected. The impedance and surface features of the substrate ground earth sand burrow clump of plants on which the tortoise lives will affect the electromagnetic design whether or not the impedance from the tortoise to the ground is utilized in the system design. The distance between the tag elements and the ground surface will affect the radiation and reception of the antenna and it is sure to vary as the animal rests moves hibernates and grows. In general the following aspects of the tortoise itself as a physical object must be considered in the tag and system design Shell surface impedance shell to bony layer impedance internal body impedance to varying degrees of detail body to ground impedance tag to shell interface impedance etc. . These aspects of the tortoise as system component are listed in .

Items and concern sources possible for powering the tag. Since tortoise always go out in the sun when not in hibernation to heat their bodies to optimum levels for metabolism and movement a solar cell on the tag surface is optimum for powering the tag as well as for determining when the tortoise is in the optimal position location for its tag to be read. The presence of sunlight means the tortoise is generally above ground and in relatively clear overhead space. Therefore the presence of sunlight makes and solar power converters possible a battery less active tag and in addition can work with other circuitry in the tag to utilize as much sun power as possible to broadcast beacon and ID signals as well as to charge any secondary batteries or capacitors or super capacitors in the tag circuit.

One or more batteries may be a part of the tag circuitry. In the case of a secondary battery it can be used to power the tag electronic systems and can be re charged by a number of energy harvesting techniques solar motion generated electricity electromagnetic field or even directly electrically recharged if the tortoise is able to be physically handled. A primary battery may be used as a circuit component to power a clock calendar circuit. These batteries and the ultra low power drain circuitry mentioned as used in digital watches have life spans of several years when running ordinary watch and LCD circuitry. If used to power a clock calendar circuit that schedules the times days and months that surveys are likely to be successful their only function would be to turn ON or OFF a CMOS switch to enable tag activation. This should allow the battery to operate much longer and battery life to approach its shelf life and certainly long enough to power only a scheduling memory for any passive OR active tag functions that might be utilized. Since batteries can now be made very thin and flexible either or both batteries might also serve a double function by occupying a large surface area of the tag and utilizing one or both conductive terminals as part of the tags antenna structure . The function of a battery serving as part or all of an antenna is known in prior art. e.g. Beigel prior patent application and or patents Related to the tag design is the implementation of an indelible identification number associated with the tag and or the tortoise. The most reliable method of providing an indelible memory element in a tag is laser or otherwise physically electrically fused PROM tag number . In addition to being indelible electrically it can also be examined microscopically and read optically if only remnants of a non working tag or deceased tortoise are found. This also brings up the possible desirability of subcutaneously implanting a PIT Passive Implantable Transponder under the skin of the juvenile tortoise. Present PIT tags can be made small enough for this purpose without causing a weight burden or danger of infection to the tortoise and therefore should be able to serve as a back up to any more advanced long range transponder mounted on the shell of the tortoise.

The external components not connected and distant from the tortoise listed in indicate some of the components of the reader locator system at the other end of the system design for example Signal generator component analyzer preamps antenna computer system DSP and database software. In addition the environment between the tortoise tag and reader locator not numbered must be considered in the SYSTEM APPROACH to the design modeling and ACTUAL OPERATION during the deployment of the system. This basically summarizes the end to end approach in which simulation design physical implementation of components and operation of the entire system during its entire life cycle are part of a UNITARY FUNCTIONAL METHOD of providing this tag and location system.

The stratification of this system in depicts the notion of layers within the process of system components operation and useful output. The elements in are the primary stages of system functions for locating the tortoise Detection finding a signal that may be from an ID tag Detection of any signal that could be a tag signal Direction as determined by time of arrival relative signal strength etc at the primary location system s antennas Distance which may be obtained if sufficient signal allows accurate triangulation and Location which derives from the first three D s and the known location and orientation of the reader system. Identification may be independent of location it could be implicit in the signal pattern or it might only be found by directly accessing the animal . The Location process may also proceed in stages in which a provisional location is computed by the primary location system and the precise location is determined by additional short medium range location system s dispatched to the area of approximate location.

System aspect concerns the models of electromagnetic signal transmission from tortoise or asset to primary and secondary location systems. It is layered in the sense that first the tortoise model is considered then the tag model. Together they form the first transmission model. They tortoise tag interact with the close environment ex. Borrow pallet open space sand etc. model of the environment substrate nearby vegetation or RF obstructions and taken together form a sub system that could be considered a transmitter into the mid range and long range spatial models. The close range objects that interact with the antenna can be lumped together since they may determine the signal strength directivity and polarization of the outgoing signal that traverses the possibly much longer distance through the environment to the long range location station as an example . Likewise a corresponding transmission model from the reader to the tag would be constructed for system types in which the reader sends a signal either providing power or query information to the tag.

Signed processing refers to a macroscopic mid and long range models of transmission of the signal through foliage and air including major obstructions air attenuation and major reflections. This aspect applies to both tag to reader and reader to tag . Signals reaching the antenna structures pass through an additional model of the antennas and the preliminary signal processing. The signal presumably now digitized passes into the detection direction distance models the output of which is mapped onto the terrain map model. At this point the spatial probabilistic filter model interacts with location probability clouds generated by the preliminary location processing system and determines the most likely location areas which can be multiple on account of reflections etc. A second round of computation not shown in occurs when sub location information is transmitted by the short range location systems and the probability map is updated until by successive approximation of location the tortoise object or asset is positively located and identified. In other words the location process is repeated. This data point becomes a historical asset for the entire location system. The display functions at the primary and secondary location systems then involve the human operator s intelligence and experience in discerning the graphic map information with real life in order to actually locate the tortoise. In this way the concept of layered models becomes the process by which the system operates and improves its function by accumulation of historical information and successive correction of the various computational models corresponding to the physical object of interest the physical environment the electromagnetic environment the hardware and software locating devices and also the improvement of human interpretation of data and use of the system.

Step is Send signal to request tag information optional tag may be self activated in beacon signal mode

Step is Calculate first probability clouds of signal source s relative to the antenna system geometry

Step is Receive location information for antennas i.e. the GPS based location of the antenna bearing device long range or short range location systems 

When the signal coming in from a tag is analyzed by a particular location estimating algorithm based on the relative signal values at the antenna locations it is unlikely especially in the case of a weak signal in a complex environment to be a single location calculated. More likely there will be a probability density function of possible locations clustered around one or more central locations in the case of reflections it is likely that numerous locations will be calculated with no real way to decide a preference of one over another. This is the first probability cloud generated by the signal processing of antenna signal data.

Then there is the second probability map based upon the topography of the general area in which the antenna data are received. The generation of a probability map from a topographical map requires an understanding of numerous aspects of both the topography terrain and the possibilities and habits of locomotion of the tortoise or other animal object asset etc . Some obvious examples in the case of the juvenile tortoise serve to illustrate only superficially what the art and science of constructing a probability map can entail. In the simplest model one can impose a binary 0 1 model either the tortoise can possibly be at a certain location or cannot possibly be there. For example a tortoise cannot be inside the center of a large solid boulder so probability 0 for an area or volume occupied by such an object. In a sunny area free from obstructions the probability might be defined as 1 because the tortoise COULD be there. From this crudest possible impossible weighting function for the 3D space in consideration one would develop finer gradations based on more detailed study or statistical experience of locations confirmed. For tortoises the knowledge that they like to nest in certain clumps of plants or the locations of known tortoise burrows or could not be in closed buildings into which they cannot access can build up a gray scale of probability density regarding the various known aspects of the geographical area under study. Changes in the area must not be neglected. Removal of foliage change of terrain due to flooding of wash areas etc. must be monitored and the probability map updated to maintain the best accuracy and relevance.

This probability map concept can apply to the acquisition of position data for any item of interest in any environment. The requisite conditions are a map or diagram of the environment and the structures within it or other dimensionally calculable aspects which would affect the likelihood of a target object occupying any point in the space. The location of the system making the measurement of distance and direction to the target object must be known. The history if any of sightings of the objects within the environment should be known if possible. The size of the object its characteristics regarding movement direction and speed capability of sustained motion etc should be known. The object does not have to be tagged for example visual sightings or radar images might be used to estimate its location instead of tag transmission data. Thus the probability of one or more objects being in a given space in relation to the location finding system may be established to varying degrees of accuracy and the over all accuracy of the estimation of the objects position may be enhanced by the mathematical combination of the probability map with all other location data and uncertainty obtained by the measurement system. However this process is only the first of a possible sequence of steps taken to provide the exact location of the object.

Step is Calculate location map information Place the location system readers antennas within a map model of the local environment GPS based on history and new information step .

Step is Receive GPS and GIS data on location topography add detailized data regarding substrate foliage objects topography corresponding to possible location.

Step is Receive historical data on objects to be located based on previous confirmed locations and computation of all possible trajectories from previous historical records that could place an object tortoise within the general location area based on its maximum travel rates possible travel paths etc. Step is Mathematically combine first probability cloud with a second probability function generated by 3D map and historical data. Step is Display resulting location probability map refined Assuming a human operator since a robotic or automatic artificial intelligence operator might also be used and a display map not needed the display would for example show a topographic map of the area in which the measurement search is taking place. The location of the primary locating system and the orientation of its antennas would be displayed on the map display derived from GPS and compass measurements. The probability cloud of possible object locations would also be displayed on the map. The spatial probability function based on either human judgment or possibly an algorithmic derivation would be superimposed on the map in regions corresponding to the probability cloud. Finally the enhanced probability cloud would be displayed or accentuated within the total display. Step is Since multiple tags may be detected simultaneously by the system a refined probability cloud for each tag would be separately projected onto the display and differentiated from any identifiably different tag probability clouds. Send fine detail system closer into probable location At this point if a more accurate or completely exact location of the tortoise is desired the second or nth stage of location equipment would be brought into the situation. For example the backpack mounted or handheld location system which may use an entirely different technology for location and or ID would be dispatched to the area or areas of highest likelihood of location. Step is Communicate location of fine detail system AND large scale system and further refine probability of location of object 

The close range system s position and orientation likewise derived by GPS and transmitted on a communications channel to the primary location system would then begin seeking the tagged tortoise. Since its range is short it might not have data to report until it has come closer to the tortoise. However its trajectory would be tracked by its own GPS system relayed to the primary station and displayed on the terrain map. Since the close range system also has a display and receives a visual image of its location orientation and trajectory from the primary system the close range seeker will not be aimlessly wandering in search of the tortoise. If it has traversed all possible area in the probable location region and found nothing it can then move to another region of probable location. Since the range of the close range system is known to a relative extent it can even be directed as to how closely to survey the area to avoid needless repetition with out missing an area. Assuming the tortoise is located precisely its position is marked on the main map. Its ID is read and any physical handling necessary may be performed. If its ID tag is rechargeable by electromagnetic field the short range reader might be brought close to it for the required period of time for a re charge. The system described is a two stage system but there is no need to limit the system operation to two stages if the geographic area is very large or increased accuracy is needed or the limitations of locating equipment require more stages to exactly locate the object. The probability map is also then updated and the probability functions corrected by the exact location information and possibly an analysis of wrong guesses and traversal by the short range system.

TAG The above description described a tagged object however similar methods may be used to find un tagged objects if methods of successively estimating its location are available and the notion of a spatial probability map applies to successively accurate estimation and final exact location. Tracking Software

Mathematically the antennas will pick up a signal y from the tortoise in position x. This signal will be complicated potentially including components from reflections and interactions with the terrain along with noise W. The problem can be posed as one of finding the position x from the measurement y. That is we want to maximize the probability that we would receive the measurement y under the assumption that the source is at position x for a given set of antenna parameters . Mathematically the problem is maximizing the conditional probability with a set of constraints max 1 The constraints listed here may not be exhaustive but rather serve as an illustration of the kinds of constraints envisioned at this point. The constraint x x vt says that a given tortoise cannot move farther than vt since the previous observation at time interval t in the past. The software should record the time of each observation of each tortoise and thereby eliminate erroneous detections by proper choice of the maximum velocity v. Of course detection at very long distances might still be a valid detection if the tortoise was carried by a predator flood or other unusual event and the software might want to record these events as well. Similarly the last two constraints say the position cannot be within rocks or a distance farther than from the surface.

To solve this problem we first formulate a model that contains information about the terrain and estimates the measured signals y that would be detected from a source at x for some set of parameters . This model may be of the form y f x w. If the noise is Gaussian white noise then we can write this problem as one of searching for the position x that minimizes the estimation error e y f x . This is a standard optimization problem Boyd2004 and SC Solutions a California company for example has developed tools for solving these types of problems.

Thus for the software development there are three main tasks. The first is a model that estimates the antenna signals that would be detected for a source at a specified location with possible variable parameters associated with brush moisture and other variable factors that can affect the transmission for the RF signal. This task will be undertaken using commercially available software COMSOL . The source strength and directional pattern will be assumed known and calculated from the end to end electromagnetic system model .

The second main task is that of integrating a terrain map and the transmission model into an optimization module that reports the detection of a tortoise position by solving Eq. 1 . For the full implementation the software must detect multiple tortoises and perform the necessary transformations from the coordinates of various antennas mounted on Mobile Laboratory Hiker UAV etc. to the coordinates necessary for solving the optimization problem. For example the model described above y f x w will be duplicated for each antenna with its unique parameters associated with its position within the terrain so that the global position predicted x will be accurate. Since the models for various antenna detection schemes may be different for the various modes of detection and are likely to evolve and improve with time this model integration should be sufficiently modular and generic to allow easy accommodation of future detection improvements.

The third main task will be to integrate location information of the tortoises with a real time geographical database. The database will also serve as a repository for historical data as well as real time GPS and GIS data. It can be used to help the on foot searcher locate the animals more accurately and provide updates to the model y f x w in terms of terrain features.

Compares the projected probability code with a pre computed spatial probability surface derived from the known information about the locality

Projects a refined spatial probability display on the map surface based on the comparison algorithm in which Tag emits an id location signal 

In another common modulation method the signal is transmitted continuously but the frequency is different for each value of information to be transmitted. As shown periods of determined time value or numbers of cycles of frequency F and periods of frequency F both within resonance capture by an appropriately designed antenna may correspond to digital 0 and 1 respectively while allowing the advantage of a continuous RF signal for example powering a remote tag.

Note also that a first carrier wave of a first frequency which is one half the frequency of a second carrier wave and e.g. the same amplitude may be modulated by a digital wave where zero uses the first carrier and one users the second carrier for a modulated resultant wave.

The next diagrams describe various approaches methods and components to providing the required tag for the tortoise example. Providing a general purpose tag for small animal large animal object and asset location may use any of the features described in the present invention as well as other features appropriate to the size and shape of the animal or asset to be tagged and tracked.

A combination of several RF modules to create a multifunctional tag with RFID and Harmonic Radar capabilities. Prior art had demonstrated 16 mm long wire diode tags that could be mounted on flying insets but could not provide individual ID and further required kilowatts of power in a radar beam at 9.3 GHz directed primarily above the ground surface and to some extent also above foliage cover . For implementation of the same concept on ground living tortoises the long range detection goal could not be achieved because of ground absorption of the signal and possible interference with the harmonic generated by the tag on account of semi conductive mineral objects on the ground substrate which could also generate harmonics. However it is anticipated that medium range 10 meters to 30 and possibly up to 100 meters detection and location range can be achieved with longer wavelength signals at lower powers i.e. 900 MHz 2.4 GHz fundamental frequencies . To add individual ID capability to a harmonic radar tag the present invention provides ANTENNA is a dipole or patch or bowtie or other form of antenna that can receive the incoming signal at fundamental frequency and which can contain a microwave and or schottky diode in the geometric middle or other viable geometric section of the antenna so that the antenna can re radiate the second harmonic of the incoming frequency when it the incoming power at the incoming frequency contains sufficient energy to drive the diode into its nonlinear conductivity region.

NON LINEAR DEVICE the nonlinear device may be a microwave or schottky diode or in general any electrical component that has a strong nonlinear response at a relatively low power input. A pair of diodes may also provide a nonlinear but symmetric transfer function. RFID CIRCUIT connected across for example a single schottky diode may be an RFID circuit either passive semi passive semi active or active that is activated either at the same input power level as the nonlinear divide in the case of battery or other assisted power RFID circuit or at a higher power level in the case of a passive RFID circuit and which modulates an individuating code or other signal either as a secondary modulation of the harmonic generated by the nonlinear device or as an additional signal to the nonlinear device generated signal.

DIPOLE ANTENNA Preferably tuned to resonate at the chosen transmission frequency band for example 902 to 928 MHz for UHF or 2.45 GHz for microwave tags RFID CIRCUIT May be any type of circuit design that either derives power from a signal impressed across the diode or that is appropriate for the generation of harmonics when driven above its nonlinear threshold SCHOTTKY DIODE A Passively powered and is activated or awakened by the electrical signal across the diode received by the DIPOLE ANTENNA

SERIES SWITCH MODEL TAG depicts a typical embodiment of an RFID circuit that might be used with either the serial connected tag or with the parallel tag shown in .

DIODE is connected between the two parts of a halfwave antenna ANTENNA ANTENNA . The SWITCH in series or alternatively in parallel as in with the diode is actually the Modulating element of the RFID circuit and can take numerous alternative forms. The RFID element depicted here essentially consists of three parts power supply RFID circuitry and modulation switch . The power supply is developed from DC voltage stored from the rectified AC voltage in this case rectified by the microwave diode. Likely the RFID tag may have an additional diode or diode bridge or equivalent and capacitor in the power supply so that at low level signal inputs it does not load the microwave diode because its own diodes have a higher threshold voltage and in that way does not diminish the range of communication for the harmonic radar localizing circuit. The RFID circuitry consists of at least a clock signal extractor or generator a counter a memory circuit and an output to the modulating circuit being controlled by the code in the memory as accessed by the counter . The modulating circuit is simply a switch with some intrinsic switch resistance . Other more complex modulation circuits employ a switch and some other components. For example shows a switch control and a capacitor C in parallel with another capacitor C functioning to change the effective series capacitance according to the RFID signal. Contains a switch control in parallel with an inductor circuit L providing a shorting of the inductor in accordance with the RFID circuit. likewise provides an incremental resistance change by switching control to short resistor R in series with the diode. Thus simply shorts a resistor by the incremental resistance of the switch. switches control a capacitive reactance C in parallel with a resistor R. switches control a resister R in parallel with another resistor R. These and other circuits combing solid state switches with other electronic components may be used to optimize a particular RFID tag circuit for the most appropriate modulation of a reflective tag impedance at a given frequency and for particular types of RFID reader signal acquisition and analysis circuits.

For powering the RFID tag the energy from the diode circuit may be used as in the purely passive RFID case but in addition the RFID circuit may be powered for example by a solar cell charging a capacitor or a battery. A strong field at resonant frequency may also charge the capacitor or battery through diode for extended useful operating life . When sufficient input signal is detected a wake up signal activates the RFID tag without drawing any power from or limiting the effectiveness of the harmonic radar tag . The existence of the signal allows the self powered RFID tag to produce an RFID function. It may modulate the second harmonic generated by the diode or in addition may add a powered signal to the terminals across the diode transmitting an RFID signal with much greater range than would a passive RFID tag and possibly greater range than would the harmonic radar tag.

In such a case the signal generated by the microwave diode would allow for a much wider range of RFID detection once the tag is activated by a microwave signal. The power for the semi active or semi passive circuitry may come from a SOLAR CELL charging a capacitor or secondary battery . In addition a strong RF signal received at the antnna may flow through charging diode to re charge the battery. This is only likely in a situation in which strong RF energy is beamed to the antenna AFTER detection of the tag by harmonic radar output or after the tag has been located and accessed to charge the battery from a short distance with a strong local RF field.

Harmonic radar devices have been explained in some detail above however another class of devices exist that need to be mentioned. These are SAW ID tags. SAW or Surface Acoustic Wave tags are based on the properties of piezo electric crystals and likely other piezoelectric materials. If a piezoelectric crystal is stimulated with an electrical pulse signal the dimensional deformity produced by this travels down the surface of the crystal as an acoustic wave. Upon meeting an electrode spaced along the crystal an electrical impulse is generated with a time delay corresponding to the speed of sound on the material and the distance traveled. A pattern of electrodes at different lengths along the crystal would yield a pattern of electrical pulses at time delays corresponding to the arrangement of the electrodes. This phenomenon may be used in an identification. location device by adding a resonant antenna to contact with the exciting terminal and the responding terminals along the piezo crystal. This provides an interesting kind of ID location tag since there is really not an electronic circuit in conventional terms to be powered by a minimum power level transferred to the device. Essentially this means that the range of activation and response of a piezoelectric tag is only dependent on the signal to noise ratio of the antenna and amplifier of the receiving antenna and or the magnitude of pulsed fluid allowed by regulations or attainable by power input into the transmitting antenna. The transmitting and receiving antennas may be the same antenna and the lack of interference between an outgoing pulse and the incoming pulse delayed by distance traveled to and from the tag incoming pulse allows for single antenna operation as well as very accurate radar like distance estimation. Combinations of Harmonic radar and SAW tags in combination in much the same way as harmonic radar and RFID tags in combination. And even combinations of all three technologies Harmonic SAW RFID on a single tag are contemplated.

Shown in is a HARMONIC RADAR RFID AT UHF OR ABOVE which consists of HARMONIC RADAR TAG made with microwave diode and possibly an additional tuning impedance at the midpoint NOT NUMBERED and a half wave antenna at microwave or UHF fundamental frequency functioning as described earlier in this disclosure. Additionally FIRST INDUCTOR has two terminals connected across the diode terminals where the antenna joins the two terminals of the diode. Inductor may have the combined function of providing resonant tuning of the antenna in connection with the intrinsic capacitance of the microwave diode but which also has a second function as the primary of a transformer operating at the fundamental frequency or alternatively at the second harmonic frequency. The SECOND INDUCTOR provides the secondary inductor of a transformer made up of and their mutual inductance and turns ratio. This provides an electrically decoupled but reactively coupled source of energy or signal for RFID tag . RFID tag may be either active having its own power solar cell battery etc. or passive i.e. it may or may not have a source of electrical power separate from the energy transmitted to it through the transformer formed by and . The harmonic radar tag is designed to transmit a harmonic signal when activated by a UHF or microwave incoming signal and provide a detection signal without identification at maximum distance dictated by the optimized design of the harmonic tag . The RFID tag if passive may function at a closer range when supplied with excess energy from the microwave diode either at the fundamental frequency or the second harmonic or both as design options. This extra energy may be in the form of a DC polarization across the diode terminals or excess AC voltage across the diode or both. A passive RFID tag would in the schematic shown be powered by AC signal received at the transformer secondary through terminals and . Additionally the RFID tag if active may begin transmitting an RFID signal and or modulating the second harmonic from the microwave diode as soon as sufficient signal is detected through the transformer to wake up the active tag. In the case of a step up transformer where the turns ratio of coil to is significantly greater than one it is possible that the RFID tag especially if it s active may function as soon as the microwave diode produces enough signal to wake up the active tag. Other design options are also possible as may be obvious to one skilled in the art.

It should be noted that the design of the rectifier circuit can be utilized differently for an active or a passive tag. For example in a passive tag the sum of the voltage drops for activation of the full wave rectifier circuit will be significantly higher than the voltage necessary to create second harmonic radiation by the microwave diode . This voltage margin will allow the RFID tag circuitry to be negligible as a load on the microwave harmonic radar tag until the signal strength has risen to a point where the diode bridge turn on voltage is activated. For this reason the harmonic radar tag retains its greater range of operation and detectability and the RFID function turns on at a higher signal input closer range . A similar function may be provided by a single diode RFID rectifier in which the harmonic radar tag diode is a schottky diode and the RFID tag diode is a silicon diode with a significantly higher turn on voltage than the schottky diode. The identification function of the RFID tag begins to operate when the tracking antenna has come closer to the harmonic tag. The signal level transmitted to the tag by the external reader locater may be increased upon detection of the locating second harmonic signal from the microwave diode in order to activate the RFID function at a further distance then if the transmitted signal were held constant.

In the passive RFID tag charge is accumulated across capacitor or in an active tag the excess energy from the diode bridge may be used to charge if a rechargeable battery is used instead of a capacitor BATTERY . In either case the terminals of are connected to supply power to the RFID circuit. One of the lines connecting terminal or to the RFID circuitry may supply the RF signal as a clock signal or the RFID circuitry may develop its own clock signal as known in prior art. Likewise the voltages output of the diode bridge or other rectifier circuit may provide a threshold signal to wake up or turn on the modulation function of the ACTIVE RFID circuit rather then just supplying power to a passive RFID circuit.

RFID is an EXEMPLARY CONFIGURATION OF RFID . Through terminals and the RFID circuit may either switch a load in and out across terminals and or in an active tag an RFID circuit may also provide an active RF modulated signal to terminals and and thus through to the antenna to achieve greater operating range for reception of the RFID signal.

In the general architecture for a scheduled tag is depicted. Scheduled transmitting tag is a tag that contains an internal clock circuit or perhaps another type of sensing or timing circuit that defines a calendar and or clock function for the possibility of operation of the tag. The term possibility is stressed since the schedule may only define calendar or clock schedules when the tag MIGHT be operational. In one embodiment the tag would function whenever the schedule allows operation in another embodiment the tag might function when the schedule allows operation and an activating signal is sensed by the tag. In yet another embodiment the tag might function when the schedule allows operation and there is sufficient sunlight or other ambient power available to activate self powered operation without power drain on the clock calendar battery. In this case the tag might transmit a BEACON signal periodically independent of receiving any activating signal from a reader as long as the sunlight allows self powered functioning. In another embodiment the tag may work as in the first three descriptions but may also be forced into operation by an emergency wake up signal even if operation is not scheduled and even if internal clock calendar battery is used.

The main idea of the schedule is to save tag energy for time periods when it is known that a survey of tags may be conducted or to prevent operation when it is known that animals such as tortoises would be in places inaccessible to light for powering solar cells and in bad locations for location and ID transmission etc. i.e. that a successful communication would not be possible.

The primary elements of a scheduled operation tag are primarily a clock calendar self powered by an ultra miniature and or flexible thin long lived battery. The power consumption of the clock calendar must be minimized to the extent possible by numerous techniques known in the art. The battery must likewise have as high a charge capacity as possible for the size allowable in the tag design. Simple LCD watches have been known to last many years on a single battery and this includes at least driving a small LCD display. The calendar circuitry mentioned here would not even have to expend display power it would simply count time and turn a CMOS switch on or off at specified times of the day week month and or year. The programming or reprogramming of the calendar schedule memory could be done electrically or electromagnetically from close proximity at deployment or upon a re capture release cycle during census periods in a scientific study. The clock uses a low frequency crystal for timing accuracy though other clock signal elements might also be used and the clock supplies time date to schedule program memory . Assuming the schedule has been set appropriately when scheduled operation is indicated the conditional operations of the tag are then activated by environmental sensors to further validate the option of expending energy from any of the tag energy use systems. Light sensor which could be either a solar power cell or a conductive light sensor might enable a transient logic section if the sensing of light indicates the tortoise is above the ground on a sunny day and not under a deep cover of bushes. Is the transient logic is enabled by both the light sensor and the schedule program then the tag is armed to transmit a beacon signal. In this example the tag is also equipped with an RF receiving antenna which might also function as a transmitting antenna.

A secondary power source in the tag may be either a re chargeable battery and or a capacitor or supercapacitor . This power source may be charged possibly by a Solar Array through a rectifier diode or by DC energy RF field through RF antenna and RF to DC converter . When sufficient power is accumulated within power storage elements and the tag is then switched into a signal transmit mode. Power supplied to the TRANSIENT GENERATOR is enabled by the TRANSIENT LOGIC to be switched as a high current pulse into the TRANSIENT ANTENNNA . The transient antenna is a high Q resonant antenna which emits a ringing waveform exponentially decaying electromagnetic field into space at the antenna s resonant frequency. This might be in response to an interrogating signal received by the ANTENNA from a reader searching for tags or it may be generated independently as soon as sufficient energy is available. Additionally a succession of pairs of transient pulses with definite programmed time delays between each pulse of the pair generated by the transient logic may enable an identification of the tag by the time delay between the pair of pulses differently coded for each tag in the population. The time length between each pair of pulses would be long in comparison to the time length of each pulse of the pair thus creating a series of self identifying ringing transient wave forms for the tag when it is scheduled activated by favorable external conditions and interrogated by a reader within operating range of the tag.

Antenna is also possible as an additional radiating surface directly inherent to the RFID chip or mounted upon it. This would make a complex antenna with three radiating surfaces as opposed to the two usual radiating surfaces of a conventional patch antenna as well as additional wire radiators attached to terminals on the patch antenna surfaces.

The tag device is attached to the shell of tortoise by an adhesive . Various types of epoxy cyanoacrilate and other types of adhesives have proved successful for long term mounting to tortoise shells. The adhesive also has electromagnetic properties. Adhesive may be insulating with a particular dielectric constant or conductive to a greater or lesser extent. In any case the coupling by the adhesive of the tag the tortoise shell scute the body of the tortoise within the shell and the electromagnetic connection between the body of the tortoise and the ground upon which the tortoise rests or moves are all relevant to some extent in determining the electromagnetic coupling between the patch antenna or more complex patch plus wire antenna and the ground and surrounding near space. Consideration of the likely relation between the tortoise and this near electromagnetic environment when a transmission or data transfer takes palce can be used to optimize the antenna and tags electronic design so that it performs best when the tortoise is in the most likely position to facilitate the best transmission of the signal transfer as opposed to other possible positions of the tortoise with respect to its near environment.

In RFID TAG is coupled by COUPLING DEVICE to be in parallel connection or coupling with HARMONIC DIODE . Harmonic Diode is coupled on both sides to generally resonant antennas and . The antenna structure in general is resonant at a fundamental frequency and also at twice or an integer multiple of the fundamental resonant frequency. When a signal received at the antennas the resonant frequency is sufficient to power the harmonic diode into nonlinear operation allowing the re radiation of outgoing signal at twice or n integral number of times the resonant frequency from the incoming signal. The tag then functions as harmonic radar reflector.

If the signal re radiated from the tag is of sufficient strength to provide extra power signal to either activate or operate a passive or active RFID tag then the tag may either send out its own separate RFID signal through either or both antennas or modulate the harmonic signal from the harmonic diode with an RFID code across the diode to transmit a binary 0 bit or not shorting the diode to transmit a binary 1 bit to convey the tag ID message. If the RFID tag is active or semi active then it is also connected independently to power supply for RFID tag. In this case the RF tag only requires the presence of an activating signal from the circuit comprised of the antennas and the diode and may operate at above or even below the threshold of activation of the harmonic radar tag as long as its power supply provides power for independent operation. In that case the ID tag may be assumed as simply sharing the antenna structure with the harmonic radar tag. To some extent the tag of is similar to .

Multi resonant patch antena may be a combination of a number of conductive insulating dielectric energy storing dielectric and antenna structures on the control chip. Thus the combination of conductive surface may serve as the ground plane. An energy stroring dielectic layer separates conductive surface from the ground plane. The energy storing dielectric may be a super capacitor or secondary battery with internal resistance that can support an RF signal across it and may receive DC energy from the solar cells or rectification of RF signals received by the resonant antenna via a diode rectifier not shown and still be used as a dielectric to space apart the two conductive layers to form a patch antenna. The patch antenna may therefore be resonant at a frequency defined by conductive layers and and in addition be resonant at a different frequency with relation to the antenna formed on chip. The different resonant frequencies may be utilized for power derivation from one resonant section and signal generation from the other section. The signal from the chip section may be a short but energetic impulse which will cause the lower resonant structure to ring at its resonant frequency and harmonics.

Adhesive layer attaches the tag to the tortoise shell and may be conductive or insulating. If conductive it will electrically couple the tag to the outer shell. The outer shell is relatively insulating however in a live tortoise the underlying bone and internal body organs are conductive. The legs or bottom shell of the tortoise will likely contact the desert substrate. By including all the electromagnetic properties of the tag the shell the internal organs and the contact to substrate ground and by using sophisticated present art modeling techniques the entire tortoise is modeled as a component of the electromagnetic system. Optimization of the RF transmitting receiving system thus formed will be more effective than merely modeling the tag design independent of what is attached to it a tortoise or another animal or an object possibly in relation to or contact with a substrate or ground .

COMBINED ACTIVE VHF AND MILLIMETER LIGHTWAVE TAG is potentially activated by INCOMING RADAR BEAM or INCOMING SUNLIGHT OR MM WAVES . In addition it may be activated by RF WIRE ANTENNA . The RF tag may be active or passive consisting of IC BATTERY.

For the beamed incoming signal millimeter or lightwave LIGHT CONCENTRATOR AMPLIFIER EMITTER is a dome shaped apparatus enclosing a LIGHT SENSOR PHOTOCELL or the like on the surface of the tag and its distinguishing features will be explained in the next figure. In response to a stimulating interrogating signal from either the UHF VHF or the lightwave inputs the RFID IC may respond with an outgoing signal either having ID information or only location information either through the VHF UHF antenna or by OUTGOING STIMULATED EMISSION such as by an LED or laser diode located on or intrinsic to the ID chip and radiated out through the optical assembly covering the chip.

The tag of may be a tag similar to the one in with the addition of a special construction of the OPTICAL COVER .

At the high end of the microwave and the low end of the optical range we find an area where waves behave optically and we find an area where for a small device which is a quarter of an inch in diameter approximately. A dome a quarter of inch in diameter and out of spheres that are anywhere from a millimeter in diameter more or less the dome assembly is a continuous bug eye of spheres. These spheres can act as a retro reflective element for incoming beamed wave forms. A beam of light or it might be a beam of terahertz or a very high gigahertz waves would have the property that if the wave came in at a certain angle and it hits the spheres that it would be reflected back at the same angle by at least some of the spheres. In that way either identification or at least location or determination of the existence of a device that reflected an incoming wave of a very high frequency could be confirmed by the receiver location. That by itself is something that has utility since it can a similar function as to that which harmonic radar performs at a lower frequency to provide detection from a beamed source just due to the reflective action of a hemisphere that is made out several micro spheres of an optical character. They might be made of glass or transparent plastic. In addition because of the development of active materials the spheres might also be made of a material which has a non liner response to an incoming wave such that it could receive an incoming wave at a given frequency and emit or reflect a wave at a changed frequency in the same direction that the incoming wave came from.

It is also be possible that element the material that the spheres are made to store energy and upon activation by a light or RF frequency it might release the stored energy reflecting back a wave at a greater intensity than the intensity of the wave it received. This kind of wave intensity amplifying material is disclosed in many of the journals of NANO Technology relating to active optical elements. Therefore these materials and retroreflective surfaces that are suitable for use with the invention are within the ordinary skill in the art given the present disclosure and the state of the art.

The state of the art also includes literature on energy storing devices which when stimulated with a certain frequency release energy at a greater intensity either at the same frequency or a different frequency. Most of is about that concept applied to the surface of the sphere. In addition to reflecting we assume that there is also partial refracted energy coming in and providing a signal or wake up information. If a beam is beaming in energy and it happens to hit the tag as well as reflecting back it will also refract energy and focus it on the optical sensing or emitting part of element so in that way it can activate the integrated circuit IC i.e. the IC involved with producing an identification signal or an activated outgoing signal from the circuit itself. In such a case the power source need not be in the spheres and can be remote therefrom.

For example an incoming beam of laser light might hit element and be refracted onto the surface of element . It might activate a wake up signal if element has a source of energy available to it either battery powered solar powered or otherwise powered and element reacted to the activating signal. Then the tag would transmit or reflect either the optical signal that was received and send out an optical signal which has an ID code in response to the incoming signal that impinged on the hemispherical coating . Therefore at least one of sensing emitting or photo voltaic elements would be preferably contained in element .

The sensing elements can be used to wake up the circuit. Emitting elements then can be used to send out a signal through that dome that would get the signal to go or one of parts of the signals to go in the right direction. The photo voltaic function would mean if this object were simply sitting in the sun then in essence the lenses formed by the hemispherical top would focus light on to it and itself could or would be a power generating item which power could be stored in the battery of . In this way the hemispherical bug eye element serves an additional purpose of providing harvested ambient light to power an active beacon or response to a signal source.

The devices in B C D E are essentially patch antennas which have a ground plane and a dielectric insulator and the ground plane is . On the top of the dielectric insulator may be placed a variety of structures that could be optimized for transmitting various frequencies or wave forms including pulse wave forms is also known as ultra wideband wave forms. The first implementation is like a point and that could be optimized for transmitting a high energy pulse wave form which could couple to the atmosphere by ionizing the air at the point. In that way a pulse of significant energy that could also be resonated by the total structure of the antenna at a certain frequency could be transmitted by this very small structure.

When the voltage rises above a certain level it triggers for example a diac or some other type of a device that immediately goes from a very high resistance to a very low resistance when the voltage across it is above its threshold. Thus it immediately transfers all of the charge energy from the capacitor into the transmitter circuit. In this case if the transmitter circuit were to emit a microwave frequency it might emit that for as long as the energy from the capacitor permitted which could be a very short time or long time depending on the design of the transmit circuit. In one embodiment the transmitter might send out and modulated ID signal.

In a different embodiment the transmitter circuit consists of only a path of electrical discharge to an electrode of the antenna and the signal transmitted is simply a pulse activating the resonance of the antenna so the solar energy might cause the tag to emit a series of fairly strong pulses which will become ringing wave forms of the antenna resonant frequency for as long as the animal or object is exposed to the sun. Among the ways this particular system can be used ranges from pulses which are similar to ultra wide band type transmission to encoded sequences of pulses which ultra wide band plus an ID code if you make a sequence of two pulses with a time spacing between them that is fixed by an ID number a full transmission of a carrier wave modulated by a coded signal modulation wave.

FIRST TAG may be resonant at a first frequency and a SECOND TAG may be resonant at a second frequency thus identifying the tortoise by the combination of frequencies chosen from a multiplicity of single frequency tag resonances.

Although the invention has been described using specific terms devices and or methods such description is for illustrative purposes of the preferred embodiment s only. Changes may be made to the preferred embodiment s by those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims. In addition it should be understood that aspects of the preferred embodiment s generally may be interchanged in whole or in part.

