---

title: Armor unit
abstract: Armor units for rubble mound structures including breakwaters, revetments, groins, jetties, and the like. Embodiments are appropriate for ocean, river, lake and reservoir structure armoring, to prevent erosion from damaging hydrodynamic forces resulting from waves and water currents, and the like. An embodiment includes a central rectangular section, three “half H-shaped” appendages, two identical frusta (end members), and a flat bottom with two extrusions, nominally smaller than other appendages and frusta. An embodiment is symmetric about two perpendicularly intersecting vertical planes extending through the centroid of the unit. The three half H-shaped members are connected to outer parts of a side defined as the top and the two longitudinal sides of the central section. The three half H-shaped members and the two end members comprise four-sided frusta that taper from a base at the central rectangular section to four-sided distal ends. For select embodiments, the frusta are generally symmetric.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08132985&OS=08132985&RS=08132985
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08132985
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080128
---
This application is a national phase application filed as a national stage under U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US08 52146 filed Jan. 28 2008 which claims the benefit Under 35 U.S.C. 119 e 1 of prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 898 412 Concrete Armor Unit by Melby et al. filed Jan. 31 2007 both incorporated herein by reference.

Under paragraph 1 a of Executive Order 10096 the conditions under which this invention was made entitle the Government of the United States as represented by the Secretary of the Army to an undivided interest therein on any patent granted thereon by the United States.

This and related patents are available for licensing to qualified licensees. Please contact Phillip Stewart at 601 634 4113.

Breakwaters are generally shore parallel structures that reduce the amount of wave energy reaching the protected area. They are similar to natural bars reefs or near shore islands and are designed to dissipate wave energy. For breakwaters protecting harbors the breakwater acts as a barrier to wave energy and often to direct alongshore sediment transport away from the harbor. For shore protection offshore breakwaters provide a reduction in wave energy in the lee of the structure slowing the littoral drift producing sediment deposition and a shoreline bulge or salient feature in the sheltered area behind the breakwater. Some alongshore sediment transport may continue along the coast behind a near shore breakwater.

Headland breakwaters a series of breakwaters constructed in an attached fashion to the shoreline and angled in the direction of predominant wave approach such that the shoreline behind the features evolves into a natural crenulate or log spiral embayment.

Detached breakwaters that are constructed away from the shoreline usually a slight distance offshore. They are detached from the shoreline and are designed to promote beach deposition on their leeside.

Single breakwaters that may be attached or detached depending on what they are being designed to protect. A single detached breakwater may protect a small section of shoreline. A single attached breakwater may be a long structure designed to shelter marinas or harbors from wave action.

System breakwaters refer to two or more detached offshore breakwaters constructed along an extensive length of shoreline.

Rubble mound jetties are often referred to as breakwaters. They are oriented shore perpendicular and usually built as a pair at a natural inlet to provide extension of a navigation channel some distance from the natural shoreline. These structures redirect the sediment transport away from the navigation channel and constrain the tidal flow in the channel in order to make an efficient channel that requires little maintenance for navigation compared to a natural inlet.

Breakwaters are typically constructed in high wave energy environments using large armor stone or pre cast concrete units or blocks. In lower wave energy environments grout filled fabric bags gabions and other proprietary units have been utilized. Typical breakwater design is similar to that of a revetment with a core or filter layer of smaller stone overlain by the armoring layer of armor stone or pre cast concrete units.

Armor units conventionally constructed of concrete are typically used to protect rubble mound structures in relatively high wave environments or where stone armor is not readily available. Rubble mound structures include breakwaters revetments jetties caissons groins and the like. Coastal rubble mounds are gravity structures. Conventional armor units are heavy in order to prevent displacement or rocking from waves and currents.

Armor units are typically displaced by one or both of two dominant modes of structure failure. The first is displacement of the armor which leads to exposure and erosion of filter layers and subsequently the core. The second is armor breakage. The breakwater or revetment capacity will be significantly reduced if either of these two failure modes occurs and progressive failure of the structure made much more likely. The under layer filter layer is sized so as to not move under undamaged armor and to prevent interior stone e.g. small quarry run stone from escaping.

A wave is described by its height length and the nature of breaking. The wave height is the dominant forcing parameter considered in designing armor units. Other parameters include wave length water depth structure shape and height armor layer porosity degree of armor interlocking inter unit friction and armor density relative to the water.

It is known that waves exert forces on armor units in all directions. Slender armor units usually require steel reinforcement while more stout armor shapes do not. Adequate steel rebar reinforcement increases material costs by roughly 100 over un reinforced concrete. Both steel and polypropylene fiber reinforcement have been used to provide about 10 20 increase in flexural tensile strengths for large armor. units. The cost increase for the fiber reinforced concrete equates to an equivalent percent increase in strength.

Existing concrete armor units are described in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers design manuals Coastal Engineering Manual and the Shore Protection Manual. See e.g. http chl.erdc.usace.army.mil chi.aspx p s a ARTICLES 104 . Popular armor units include dolos tribar CORE LOC ACCROPODE tetrapod SAMOA STONE Antifer cube concrete cube shed and cob. The CORE LOC armor unit is protected by U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 441 362 and 5 620 280 each to Melby et al. and each incorporated herein by reference.

Commonly used concrete armor units have features that are advantageous for certain applications but are not suitable for other applications. Advantages include 

For most armor units it is difficult to achieve adequate interlocking when placing underwater. This is particularly true when the visibility is low and there are background waves during construction. For pattern placed armor it is virtually impossible to place them correctly with no visibility or when background waves are present. This condition is quite common. Many armor units require a relatively smooth under layer CORE LOC ACCROPODE tribar shed cob cubes if pattern placed . Achieving interlocking and a smooth under layer when there is low visibility and background waves is extremely difficult and the uncertainty has led to cost overruns and even breakwater failures.

Relatively slender armor units such as dolos CORE LOC ACCROPODE tribar and hollow blocks like the shed and cob require high cost moulds and are challenging to cast. Metal mould cost depends on the number of plates and complexity of the bends. Some armor unit moulds require 75 100 plates. Cubes require the fewest plates but have all the concrete concentrated in one mass. This produces high heat of hydration and potential thermal cracking. Tall moulds used for large dolos CORE LOC ACCROPODE and hollow blocks also have potential for significant strength variations throughout the armor unit because the aggregate settles compaction is greater at the bottom of the mould and water rises when the concrete is vibrated during casting. High water to cement ratios and over vibration which can occur in poorly supervised construction results in degraded armor units. For example aggregate can concentrate in the lower portion of the unit while the upper portion has an abnormally high water to cement ratio yielding weaker concrete. In addition complex shapes have horizontal or shallow sloping surfaces where water can pool in the mould further reducing strength. The result is that tall complex shapes depend greatly on the quality of construction processes and can yield less than optimum strength.

The application dictates the appropriate armor unit. For shallow clear water with insignificant background wave conditions and waves under eight meters in height most of the previously discussed armor units can be constructed and placed without difficulty. In these cases an engineer chooses the least expensive unit that provides the prescribed reliability. However for low visibility high background wave conditions or waves of eight meters or greater the disadvantages of inexpensive existing armor units mean that construction of a quality structure is going to be difficult and expensive and may even be filled with uncertainty. Further long slopes in armored configurations provide more opportunity for down slope settlement and potential armor breakage or displacement as the interlocking is lost. Although cube armor units are relatively easy to construct they do not interlock so maintenance costs are much higher than other designs and cube armor requires far more concrete than many other designs.

Interlocking concrete armor units or erosion prevention modules are well known in the patented prior art as evidenced by the Kaneko et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 614 866 and Chevallier U.S. Pat. No. 4 347 017.

The Kaneko et al. patent discloses a polypod block comprised of at least three integral pillar shaped parts joined in an alternately crossed relationship. Hence the block has at least six appendages which interlock with other blocks so that a large number of blocks can be arranged to form tightly assembled combinations. The pillar shaped members are joined together with a minimum amount of shared surface area yielding significant stress concentrations at joints. Because of this the configuration has a high probability of breaking individual units potentially leading to massive failure of the configuration. Further the appendages do not stay connected because the pillar shaped members have a square cross section that provides a limited area of frictional engagement with neighboring blocks. Because of the regular arrangement of the individual units catastrophic failure of the installed configuration can result from the failure of a relatively few armor units. Finally regularly placed units of the configuration produce an armor layer with very low porosity providing little wave energy dissipation and therefore little contribution to reduction in wave energy for the protected area in the lee of the configuration.

The Chevallier patent discloses an armor unit commonly known as the ACCROPODE for protecting riverside structures and shorelines. The unit comprises a cubic central core having top and bottom surfaces provided with anvil shaped legs and opposed front and rear legs in the form of four sided truncated pyramids. Hydraulic stability characteristics of the Chevallier unit are good if the units are well interlocked but marginal if not because of the anvil shaped legs that provide minimal unit to unit wedging. The units rely primarily on gravity forces from overlying units to enhance individual unit stability. Therefore these units must be placed on steep slopes to assure stability. However steep sloped structures have a tendency to fail catastrophically and have proven to have a high probability of failure and risk when used in low visibility waters in deep water or when construction is done in relatively high wave environments. Placed on slope a Chevallier unit exhibits characteristics of a low porosity armor layer due to the fact that it is placed in a single layer. This provides less reduction in wave energy than found in an armor layer composed of multiple layers of more slender armor units. Further the Chevallier blocks require fairly severe constraints and specifications for placement on the breakwater in order to develop enhanced hydraulic stability.

Practical difficulties result in the manufacture storage and transport of armor units. For example some armor units have shapes which are not easily cast or formed. For example the units of Yang U.S. Pat. No. 6 666 620 B2 contain complex leg formations a cylindrical body tapered lump legs projecting from the cylindrical body and branch legs cylindrically projected through a circular base disposed on the cylindrical body . Some armor units such as the Yang units do not allow for nested placement in yard areas or in shipping barges and consequently are difficult to store and ship efficiently. Also some structures are not repairable by simple addition of replacement armor units but must be partially disassembled. For example the units of Detiveaux U.S. Pat. No. 6 361 247 B1 require insertion of a long spike section into the earth and stabilization of the section with guide wires. The amount of wave dissipation is minimal provided through small windows in the top of the structure.

The designs of Melby et al. addressed many inherent weaknesses of the above designs but provided little improvement over existing shapes in fabrication requiring skilled supervision in casting the final product as well as for emplacement of individual units where poor visibility or moderate to severe wave action exists.

Concrete armor units are shaped to provide improved performance over stone as armor. The unit s shape may include appendages to promote interlocking between neighboring units. Hundreds of shapes have been developed however relatively few shapes are used as noted in the abbreviated list above. Many shapes are either too slender thus prone to breaking or provide resistance to wave forces in only a single plane e.g. Detiveaux.

There is thus a need for a durable interlocking armor unit capable of random placement resulting in a stable configuration that has strong individual units while being relatively straightforward to fabricate. Each unit should have slender appendages to provide improved stability and wave energy dissipation yet be strong enough to prevent failure of any single unit. The unit should be suitable for repair of existing slopes. It should be relatively simple to fabricate and lend itself to ready stacking for storage and shipping thus reducing overall cost as well as to emplacement in conditions not conducive to emplacing existing units.

Select embodiments of the present invention envision a concrete armor unit for armoring alongshore structures of rivers lakes and reservoir banks coastal shorelines and coastal revetments and rubble mound breakwaters jetties caissons and groins to prevent erosion from damaging hydrodynamic forces of waves and water currents. The armor unit may also have application to dam spillway and riverine baffle systems required to slow hydraulic flow. Select embodiments of the present invention provide an armor unit erosion prevention module that is uniquely configured to produce a high degree of interlocking while providing stability on steep as well as relatively shallow slopes on which it may be installed. Refer to providing a perspective including a top surface of the central core rectangle of a select embodiment of the present invention and providing a perspective including a bottom surface of the central core of a select embodiment of the present invention the bottom surface parallel to the top surface . The module has two identical end formations frusta each of which contribute to extending the central core in the same plane as the central core and along its longitudinal axis three identical side formations frusta A B each pair A B joined by a fillet of depth t the side formations A B extending the central core along the two axes perpendicular to its longitudinal axis two of the side formations A B opposing each other in the same plane as the central core and one of the side formations A B positioned on the top surface of the central core and two identical symmetrically placed extrusions frusta A B that protrude from the bottom surface of the central core all formations A B and extrusions A B contributing to hydraulic stability and wave energy dissipation. Internal stress levels are minimized by adding the fillet between each of the intersections of the two frusta A B on each of the two long sides 2L and of the two frusta A B on the top surface of select embodiments of the present invention and by providing extrusions supports that are frusta A B symmetrically placed along the longitudinal axis on the bottom surface .

Refer to . Select embodiments of the present invention may comprise a central rectangular core A as represented by the dotted lines and of length 2L and width L with elongate axis centrally located as to all protrusions extending from the central core A two identical end formations A B each of which contribute to extending the central core A longitudinally in the same plane as the central core A each of the surfaces of the end formations A B except end surfaces parallel to the narrow ends of the central core established at an angle measured from the sides of the central core A from which the formations A B protrude and along three of the four long sides of length 2L of the central core A three identical side formations A B each pair A B joined by a fillet of depth t the side formations A B extending the central core A along the two axes perpendicular to its longitudinal axis two of the side formations A B opposing each other in the same plane as the central core and one of the side formations positioned perpendicular to the top surface of the central core each of the surfaces of the side formations A B except end surfaces parallel to the long ends 2L of the central core A established at an angle measured from the sides of the central core A from which the side formations A B protrude and two identical symmetrically placed extrusions A B that protrude from the bottom surface of the central core A each of the surfaces of the extrusions A B except end surfaces parallel to the narrow ends L of the central core A established at an angle measured from the bottom surface of the central core A from which the extrusions A B protrude all formations A B and extrusions A B contributing to provide hydraulic stability and wave energy dissipation. Internal stress levels are minimized by adding the fillet of depth t between each of the intersections of each of the two formations A B on each of the two sides 2L and of the formations A B on the top surface of select embodiments of the present invention. Each side formation frustum A B and extrusion frustum A B has a rectangular cross section at its proximal base A and a smaller rectangular cross section at its distal end base B due to the tapering at angle of the four sides of each of the frusta A B A B away from its proximal base A. End frusta A B are positioned on each of the narrow ends L of the central core A with a longitudinal central axis coincident with the longitudinal central axis of the central core A. End frusta A B may have a similar cross section to the side frusta A B such that each end frustum A B has a rectangular flat bottom surface coincident with the bottom surface of the central core A. This geometry facilitates wedging between neighboring armor units such that the armor unit is symmetric about a vertical plane extending through the centroid parallel to the central elongate axis of the central core A and such that the armor unit is symmetric about a vertical plane extending through the centroid and perpendicular to the central elongate axis. In select embodiments of the present invention the side and end formations A B A B are equal in height d and the extrusions A B are 

Note that setting the thickness of the central core equal to the width thickness and width defining the dimensions of the ends of the central core creates square bases for the end frusta A B and if the length of the central core is equal to twice its width the frusta A B A B may be of the same shape at the base. If the angle of slope is held constant for all four faces of each frusta A B A B the frusta A B A B are the same shape overall. Finally if the height d of each of the frusta A B A B is also identical all frusta A B A B are identical having square bases and distal bases B that are square.

Select embodiments of the present invention provide armor units as the fundamental component for protecting ocean coastal river lake and reservoir banks and base structure layers from the damaging hydrodynamic forces of waves and water currents. Refer to . In select embodiments of the present invention an armor unit includes a central core having a length 2L longer than its width L and a depth equal to see L at or shorter than its width L. Each of two of the long sides and the top of the central core include two outer members A B that are frusta whose four sided bases are each defined by one half of the perimeter of the long side of the central core and a line bisecting the longitudinal axis of the central core . In select embodiments of the present invention a fillet in the center of each of the two long sides and the top effectively shortens the internal facing side of each of the frusta A B. On each of the two ends short sides of the central core is a single frustum A B whose four sided base is defined by the width and depth of the central core section . Width L and depth L are shown as equal if are taken to be of the same armor unit but need not be. The remaining long side bottom in has two frusta A B incorporated as supports and thus this fourth long side defines the bottom surface of the armor unit established for ease of fabrication of the armor unit as well as for the utility of it. These supports A B may be frusta of the same general shape as that of frusta of the other three sides A B of the ends A B or both and may be centered in the same location on the bottom as those frusta A B on the opposing top side. In select embodiments of the present invention the four sided base of these two supports frusta A B has a smaller perimeter and the height d of these two frusta A B is shorter than those of the frusta A B on the other two long sides. This design promotes a high degree of wedging while providing many paths for wave dissipation over the surfaces of the appendages A B A B A B of the armor unit .

Select embodiments of the present invention may incorporate internal reinforcing bars or rebar. A suitable reinforcement may be that described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 234 184 to Day et al. incorporated herein by reference. Select embodiments of the present invention were developed to provide optimized armor units for situations when conditions are not ideal for casting or placing concrete armor units or both. Select embodiments of the present invention are designed to be stout simple to cast and easy to place in adverse conditions on a breakwater revetment or jetty. Refer to . For select embodiments of the present invention the shape resembles a stout crocodile with short nose A and tail B four short legs A B on the sides and two back ridges A B hence the name C ROC . In select embodiments of the present invention the bottom belly is flat except for two or more short extrusions A B.

For select embodiments of the present invention the molds are less expensive to fabricate than conventional armor units because the number of plates is less. For select embodiments of the present invention the mold has only 33 flat plates in its primary configuration. This is one of the lowest plate numbers of known complex shaped interlocking armor units. Further since all plates are flat the mold is relatively easy and inexpensive to construct.

For select embodiments of the present invention casting is simple because the vertical height of formations A B A B and extrusions A B in any direction is shorter than conventional armor units. In select embodiments of the present invention the casting mold is open on the bottom allowing the armor unit to be cast on a slab with holes not shown separately for belly extrusions A B. Thus select embodiments of the present invention have a low center of gravity cg during casting. This low cg limits water pooling and aggregate movement while needing only minimal vibration to insure the integrity of the casting. Further with the broad center of the unit s mass directly supported by a casting slab there are little if any tensile stresses developed during casting.

The shape of select embodiments of the present invention is not as slender in select dimensions as any of the dolos CORE LOC ACCROPODE or hollow blocks like the shed and cob. Typical embodiments of the present invention require 38 more material than anequivalent CORE LOC armor layer 27 more material than an ACCROPODE armor layer and 20 less material than an armor layer made with dolos armor units.

Select embodiments of the present invention are constructed such that each armor unit is placed with its longitudinal axis roughly perpendicular to the slope of the breakwater or revetment i.e. roughly horizontally on the slope. This results in spacing between select embodiments of the present invention being less than for most large conventional armor units. This configuration reduces or prevents movement of the under layer. In addition placement on a breakwater or revetment is simple and can be done in low visibility conditions or with moderate background wave conditions. It is expected that divers with specialized skills would not be required since straightforward techniques are used for emplacement.

Hydraulic stability tests of select embodiments of the present invention demonstrate that these embodiments are very stable when placed on a typical breakwater cross section at a slope of 1V 2H. The Hudson stability equation is used to design armor units for a given incident wave height a given stability coefficient and breakwater slope. The equation is given by

Kdescribes in part the degree of interlocking of the unit. The higher the K the higher the stability. For example stone exposed to breaking waves has a K 2 give the condition of 5 eroded volume for the stone. Early tests of dolos CORE LOC and ACCROPODE indicated a Kgreater than 50 with little or no measurable damage. The values recommended for design are K 8 16 for dolos K 12 16 for CORE LOC and K 10 13 for ACCROPODE .

The unit weight density of the material selected for the armor unit is an important factor in attaining both an optimum weight and toughness of the armor unit. One such material is an improved high strength concrete as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 744 790 B2 to O Neil et al. incorporated herein by reference.

The CORE LOC armor unit is regarded as the most stable of commonly used armor units. Tests of select embodiments of the present invention yielded a Kof 61 with no instability on the seaward slope indicating these embodiments have stability characteristics comparable to the best shapes available. Because select embodiments of the present invention are not fragile as are more slender armor units reliability of select embodiments of the present invention is greater.

In select embodiments of the present invention the armor unit comprises in large part portland cement based concrete.

For select embodiments of the present invention the uniform tapering of the side frusta A B at angle facilitates wedging of adjacent armor units when placed in a layer on a rubble mound. The uniform taper also aids in removal of the mold during fabrication. For select embodiments of the present invention the flat bottom surface facilitates casting and the added extrusions A B insure bottom surface roughness and interlocking when the armor unit is installed.

Refer to depicting a top view of a select embodiment of the present invention. This view also shows the position of two extrusions supports A B dotted lines on the bottom of the armor unit relative to the frusta A B on the top surface of the armor unit .

In this example the length of the central core is 2L the width is L and the depth is L. Thus each of the frusta A B A B have square bases of the same dimension lending to the overall symmetry of the armor unit . Note that each of the two frusta A B on each of two longitudinal sides and the top have a square base of L L just as the end frusta A B do see for a side view confirming a thickness of L . If the fillet were not employed one could readily observe that two side frusta A B touch at the center of each long side of the central core with the top frusta A B configured similarly. As to the fillet the width v is defined by selecting the depth t of the fillet . Similarly the dimension w of the square top surface of each frusta A B A B is defined by selecting the height d with the taper having been previously specified by the angle .

In select embodiments of the present invention to optimize symmetry of the armor unit the angle of taper is maintained the same for at least the frusta A B of the two sides the top and the frusta A B at the two ends. This angle may even be maintained for the two or more extrusions A B as shown in .

Refer to depicting a view of the bottom and a side respectively of the armor unit of . As can be seen in this embodiment each extrusion A B is centered on a vertical line through the armor unit that passes through the middle of a corresponding frusta A B on the top side . The slope of the short frusta comprising an extrusion A B may be set equal to that of the other frusta A B A B i.e. set at . Given and the dimension x of the side of the base of the extrusions A B the space s between the extrusions A B is defined. Further given the dimension u of the side of the top surface of the extrusions A B the surface on which the armor unit would sit as shown in the height y of the extrusions A B is defined.

Refer to a head on end view of the A end of the embodiment of . In this view the symmetry is apparent when the thickness of the central core is chosen to be equal to the width of the central core . Given the 2 1 relationship of length 2L to width L and selection of a common taper pre specified as as shown in each of the two illustrated side frusta A and the top frusta A are identical in base area to the end frusta A. If the height d is common to both the end A B and side A B frusta then the four side frusta A B the two top frusta A B and two end frusta A B extend equidistant from the central core and provide the same cross section at their respective distal bases B.

Refer to . The thickness of the central core need not be the same as the width. With a thickness less than the width an embodiment would be as presented in exhibiting a rectangular face at the distal base B of each of the frusta A B A B as contrasted with the example above yielding a square face and possibly that of the extrusions A B if symmetry with the top side frusta A B is desired.

Refer to an interlocking single layer configuration of the individual armor units as shown in . The individual armor units are arranged with longitudinal axes horizontally along the slope of the breakwater. This provides a series of zigzag horizontal lines of armor units each interlocked with an armor unit in the lines above and below it and each having end frusta A B abutting along their slope with end frusta A B of adjacent armor units in the horizontal line.

Refer to an interlocking multi layer configuration of the individual armor units as shown in . The individual units are arranged in two layers with longitudinal axes oriented horizontally along the slope of the breakwater. The multi layer configuration covers the gaps present in the single layer configuration of albeit at a greater expense for the same size armor units .

Although shows alignment of the armor units horizontally in a precise interlocking order over the slope of the breakwater armor units may be randomly placed in one or multi layers with orientation of the unit s longitudinal axis with respect to the slope of the breakwater up to 45 from horizontal. See in which each armor unit in a bottom layer is arranged higgledy piggledy with respect to its neighbors and overlaid with a top layer arranged in the same manner. It is evident that there is still available a considerable amount of interlocking and full coverage of the under layer of the breakwater even in a pseudo random or random orientation of the armor units when arranged in multiple layers.

Refer to an end view of an embodiment similar to the embodiment as shown in end view in except for termination in a blunt chisel shape at the distal end of each end frustum A B. These chisel shaped terminations may be provided to improve ease of removal of an embodiment from a casting form or for enhancing the integrity of the distal ends of embodiments or both. is a perspective of the blunt chisel shaped termination alone. In one embodiment of the present invention this configuration adds length to each of the end frusta A B represented in if the same size frusta are used for the end frusta A B as for the side and top frusta A B prior to incorporating the integral blunt chisel shaped termination . If the angle is kept small e.g. less than about 10 and preferably about 5 then the additional mass added to the end frusta A B is minimized while the ease of removing a casting form is optimized.

Refer to . A first row of armor units may be placed on a sloping breakwater at the toe of the slope in much the same manner as shown in i.e. in a single plane with the bottom side with the extrusions A B not visible in placed adjacent the understructure not shown separately . Second and succeeding rows may be arranged such that the longitudinal axis is roughly perpendicular to the slope and a side side with the frusta A B is placed adjacent to a neighboring armor unit such that the rotation about the longitudinal axis is random as shown in the second third and fourth rows of . Some armor units may be placed with the bottom turned 90 i.e. as one side of the emplaced armor unit as shown in the second third and fourth rows of so that the bottom of an armor unit need not always face down. Further the individual armor units need not be in the same plane i.e. they may overlap with other armor units in the same or adjacent rows making the row taller where overlap occurs and shorter where the armor unit angles down on an opposite side as a result of the overlap. This configuration of armor units is suited to steeper slopes and those where high or murky water limits the visibility that would permit a structured interlocking of armor units as shown in . Note also that although does not employ armor units with the chisel shaped end caps of the embodiment of may be used in the breakwater of or any other breakwater including those comprising completely random placement of one or multiple layers of armor units .

The abstract of the disclosure is provided to comply with the rules requiring an abstract that will allow a searcher to quickly ascertain the subject matter of the technical disclosure of any patent issued from this disclosure. 37 CFR 1.72 b . Any advantages and benefits described may not apply to all embodiments of the invention.

While the invention has been described in terms of some of its embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modifications within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example although the system is described in specific examples for providing a suitable armor unit having symmetry on at least three sides other alternatives are possible to include selection of different slope angles for one or more sides different heights d for one or more sides a different number and type of extrusions A B and the like. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. Thus it is intended that all matter contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative rather than limiting and the invention should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

