---

title: Catalyst and process of hydrocarbon feedstock reformation to hydrogen and carbon monoxide
abstract: A catalytic composition is particularly well suited for hydrocarbon conversion to synthesis gas at a temperature of between 800 and 1000° Celsius. The catalytic composition includes a noble metal cluster having an X-Y-Z axial mean linear dimension of between 2 and 15 Angstroms and a super cage structure surrounding the noble metal cluster. The super cage structure stabilizes the noble metal cluster against aggregation at temperatures of 1000° Celsius. A process for reforming hydrocarbon feedstock to hydrogen and carbon monoxide is also provided that conversion to greater than 80% of theoretical yield.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08709378&OS=08709378&RS=08709378
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08709378
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080116
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government without payment of a fee therefor.

The invention relates to conversion of a hydrocarbon feedstock to synthesis gas and in particular to a sulfur tolerant catalyst.

The production and transport of hydrogen for field applications remains a logistical problem. The low energy density of hydrogen necessitates larger containers for storage and transport relative to those for hydrocarbon fuel. Even with high pressurization of 10 000 pounds per square inch or metal hydride storage a relatively large container is required to hold an energy equivalent of hydrogen. As a result the use of hydrogen to operate a quiet and environmentally benign electricity generator in the field necessitates on site generation of hydrogen.

The term reformation is used in the petroleum refining industry to refer to catalytic conversion of lower octane naphtha to higher octane naphtha with the production of hydrogen co product. The term reformation is used herein to describe reaction of a hydrocarbon fuel stock liquid at standard temperature and pressure STP to form hydrogen and carbon monoxide referred to as synthesis gas or syngas. Unfortunately existing technologies for fuel reformation to syngas have met with limited acceptance. For example the invention of U.S. Pat. No. 6 221 280 requires an anhydrous environment air as an oxidant and a fuel reformation temperature of greater than 1050 Celsius.

Another impediment to reformation of fuel to syngas is catalyst intolerance to sulfur. These catalysts contain transition metals that form sulfides on exposure to sulfur at elevated reformation temperatures. The sulfided catalyst is catalytically inactive referred to as poisoned.

Attempts to catalytically reform sulfur containing hydrocarbon fuels have included sulfur removal from the hydrocarbon fuel prior to exposure to the reformation catalyst as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 270 272 and sulfur tolerant catalyst as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 238 816 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 967 063. Unfortunately hydrocarbon fuel desulfurization prior to fuel reformation adds processing steps and has proven only incrementally successful. Sulfur tolerant catalysts usually require large amounts of water as an oxidant adding a containment and transport burden. These catalysts may also demonstrate low syngas yields. All of these are significant impediments for the military to use sulfur containing fuels for field generation of electricity.

There is a need for a catalyst to directly convert sulfur containing hydrocarbon fuels to synthesis gas at temperatures in the range of 800 to 1000 Celsius.

A catalytic composition particularly well suited for hydrocarbon reformation at a temperature of between 800 and 1000 Celsius includes a noble metal cluster having an X Y Z axial mean linear dimension of between 2 and 15 Angstroms and a structure surrounding the noble metal cluster. The structure stabilizes the noble metal cluster against aggregation of noble metal clusters at temperatures up to 1000 Celsius. The structure has an exterior surface area an interior volume having an interior cross sectional dimension of 36 to 225 square Angstroms and a passage providing fluid communication for transport of hydrocarbons having at least 6 carbon atoms between the exterior and the noble metal cluster and for transport of synthesis gas out of the structure.

A process for reforming hydrocarbon feedstock to hydrogen and carbon monoxide is also provided that includes preheating a catalytic composition to a temperature of between 250 and 400 Celsius. Heat generated from the reformation reaction raises the temperature of the catalytic composition to 800 to 1000 Celsius. The catalytic composition includes a support to which noble metal is adhered as well as a structure having an exterior and an interior volume and an opening providing fluid communication between the exterior and the interior volume. Reformation takes place on contacting the hydrocarbon feedstock air and optionally water with the catalytic composition at reaction temperature for a period of time.

The invention has utility for catalytic reformation of a sulfur containing hydrocarbon feedstock to hydrogen and carbon monoxide. Hydrocarbon feedstocks include Jet A Jet A1 JP 4 JP 5 JP 8 kerosene gasoline and diesel fuel. Catalytic compositions are provided that allow reformation of the sulfur containing hydrocarbon feed stocks to a hydrogen and carbon monoxide rich product. Reformation temperature is in the range of 800 to 1000 Celsius. This reformation temperature is lower than previously useful for successful hydrocarbon feedstock reformation. Reformation at 800 to 1000 Celsius occurs by means of a catalytic material containing a noble metal cluster attached to a structure adhered to a support. The structure has an exterior and an interior volume with an opening providing for hydrocarbon flow.

The inventive process includes mixing a sulfur containing hydrocarbon feedstock with an oxygen donor gas to form a reactant stream. The reactant stream is exposed to the catalytic composition at a temperature between 250 and 400 Celsius to form hydrogen and carbon monoxide by breaking hydrocarbon C C and C H bonds to form H H and C O. A catalytic composition includes a noble metal cluster and a structure having an interior volume and an opening extending between the structure exterior and the interior volume to provide fluid communication. A hydrocarbon feedstock is reformed in the presence of sulfur at a lower temperature with yields greater than 80 of theoretical. There is only limited coking that is deposition of amorphous or graphitic carbon onto the catalytic composition.

The term hydrocarbon feedstock is defined as hydrocarbon molecules having at least 6 carbon atoms. Carbon carbon bonds contained therein are linear branched cyclic or ethylenically unsaturated. A hydrocarbon feedstock according to the invention is contemplated to include organosulfur compounds although organosulfur compounds in no way benefit the operation of the inventive process or catalyst. The inventive catalytic process and catalyst yield synthesis gas in the presence of sulfur contaminates. The quantity and identity of sulfur contaminants in military jet fuel and diesel fuel are known. The quantity of sulfur ranges from 0 ppmw to 3000 ppmw typically 500 ppmw to 1500 ppmw. The average sulfur content is nominally 1000 ppmw parts per million by weight . I. C. Lee et al. Determination of sulfur contaminants in military jet fuels Fuel 2007 doi 10.1016 j.fuel.207.05.010. R. X. Hua et al. Determination of sulfur containing compounds in diesel oils by comprehensive two dimensional gas chromatography with a sulfur chemiluminescence detector J. Chromatography A 2003 1019 101 9. It is appreciated that other heteroatomic contaminants may also exist in a hydrocarbon fuel with other hetero atoms including oxygen nitrogen chlorine phosphorus as well as trace quantities of various metals.

An inventive catalytic composition for a hydrocarbon feedstock reformation may include a solid catalyst support surface. Support materials operative herein include gamma alumina zirconia alpha alumina ceria and titania. It is appreciated that the nature of the support is generally not critical and is limited only by the attribute of stability over a prolonged exposure to temperatures of between 800 and 1000 Celsius in contact with reactant gas stream and reformation products. Differences in porosity and structure of a catalytic support can influence reaction kinetics. It is known in the art that porosity of a catalytic support can be selected to be non limiting for catalytic reaction kinetics. Non limiting porosity is preferred. Noble metal catalyst in the form of particulates or a coating is adhered to the catalytic support either directly or through a structure. The noble metal is rhodium platinum palladium iridium or an alloy containing one or more of these metals. The preferred noble metal is rhodium. Noble metal catalyst loading on the catalytic support is typically between 1 and 25 total weight percent of the catalytic composition. Factors such as the nature of the hydrocarbon feedstock the catalyst operating temperature the surface area of the noble metal catalyst component and whether the noble metal catalyst component is attached to the outer surface of the structure or within the interior volume of the structure are all relevant in determining the amount of noble metal catalyst available for catalysis. In one example the noble metal catalyst has a surface area of 340 meters squared per gram and is adhered directly to the catalytic structure the noble metal catalyst preferably comprising from 0.03 to 5 total weight percent of the catalytic composition. It is appreciated that other loadings of noble metal catalyst may be used. That is lesser amounts of catalyst are compensated for by increasing exposure time between the catalytic composition and reactant gas at a given temperature.

While a noble metal catalyst is known to reform hydrocarbon feedstock at temperatures above 1050 Celsius U.S. Pat. No. 6 221 280 the present invention achieves hydrocarbon reformation at temperatures of less than 1000 Celsius and typically between 800 and 1000 Celsius by means of the noble metal cluster and the enclosing structure. The structure comprising an interior volume is selected from the group consisting of a zeolite an open ended hollow nanotube an ion implanted wafer and a fullerene. One zeolite useful as a structure is a Faujasite zeolite synonymously known as zeolite Y. Zeolite Y is readily treated to include metal atoms within the zeolite cage referred to as zeolite MY. A particularly common form is sodium modified Y zeolite referred to as NaY. Martins et al. Nature 1985 315 568. Zeolite Y is formed of sodalite units of silica and alumina that define an opening and an interior super cage volume. An opening size of between 2.6 and 80 Angstroms and maximal opening linear dimension is required while the interior volume of the zeolite has a diameter of between 2 and 15 Angstroms. Due to inadequate thermal stability and catalytic activity towards hydrocarbon reformation associated with NaY zeolite the zeolite preferably incorporates rare earth elements. Rare earth elements useful herein include samarium Sm lanthanum La cerium Ce dysprosium Dy erbium Er gadolinium Gd and combinations thereof. The preferred rare earth atoms are samarium Sm dysprosium Dy and erbium Er . The preferred amounts are 10 ppmw to 2 wt samarium Sm 40 ppmw to 3 wt dysprosium Dy and 20 ppmw to 3 wt erbium Er . The upper value of the amount of rare earth element is the saturation amount. Rare earth containing Y zeolite is thermally stable at operating temperatures of 800 to 1000 Celsius and provides a catalytically active site for hydrocarbon reformation. A preferred structure is a rare earth stabilized Y zeolite having an exterior surface area of between 170 and 350 metersper gram at 925 Celsius.

While the invention is described with respect to a zeolite structure based on Y zeolite other zeolites are also operative in the invention such as L zeolite LTL .

Tungsten carbide WC or titanium carbide nanotubes also are suitable structures in the inventive catalytic composition and are readily produced at a temperature of between 1400 and 1600 Celsius according to standard techniques. S. V. Pol V. G. Pol A. Gedanken Synthesis of WC Nanotubes Advanced Materials 2006 18 15 2023 2027.

A tungsten carbide nanotube forms a hollow thin walled structure that participates in hydrocarbon feedstock reformation at between 800 and 1000 Celsius. The nanotubes useful herein have a length of typically between 30 and 1000 Angstroms. Orientation of the nanotubes on a support appears to have little effect on hydrocarbon feedstock reformation. Nanotubes may make up from 1 to 20 total weight percent of the catalytic composition. The nanotube interior is modified to include a noble metal cluster. It is appreciated that a noble metal cluster is also provided on the exterior of a nanotube although the presence of the noble metal clusters within the carbide nanotube appears to provide a superior effect. Typically the carbide nanotube has a free interior diameter of between 30 and 70 Angstroms.

A catalytic composition according to the invention demonstrates superior hydrocarbon feedstock reformation by restricting the noble metal cluster size to a size of between 2 and 15 Angstroms in the X Y Z axis mean linear dimension. X Y Z axial mean linear dimension is a term used to describe the mean diameter of anisotropic particles. For isotropic particles such as spherical particles X Y Z axial mean linear dimension and diameter are numerically equal. While the formation of noble metal clusters having an X Y Z axis mean linear dimension of between 2 and 15 Angstroms is readily formed by conventional techniques those of the invention form the noble metal cluster of between 2 and 15 Angstroms within the structure interior volume. The opening in the structure provides fluid communication for the hydrocarbon feedstock to the noble metal cluster within the interior volume of the structure allowing catalysis. Catalysis proceeds at a reaction temperature between 800 and 1000 Celsius preferably 875 to 950 Celsius less than that previously attainable. The catalytic reaction is achieved with long term stability and inhibited aggregation or migration of noble metal cluster atoms under operating conditions to form clusters larger than those having a mean linear dimension in X Y Z directions of between 2 and 15 Angstroms. Aggregation is also referred to as agglomeration. Preferably noble metal clusters of between 2 and 15 Angstroms having a generally spherical shape are formed within a super cage of a rare earth modified Y zeolite. In the alternative the noble metal cluster may be surrounded by a metal carbide nanotube such as a tungsten carbide WC or a titanium carbide nanotube.

The integration of an inventive catalytic composition and reformation process into a fuel system is shown schematically in . System 10 includes a liquid fuel tank containing a liquid hydrocarbon fuel stock including substantial amounts of organosulfur compounds. These fuel stocks include such fuels as Jet A Jet A1 JP 4 JP 5 JP 8 kerosene gasoline and diesel fuel. The fuel tank is in fluid communication with a reformer containing a catalytic composition as described herein including a support a noble metal and a support structure. Preferably noble metal clusters are retained within the structure permitting hydrocarbon feedstock communication by way of the structure to the noble metal cluster having a mean linear dimension in X Y Z axial directions of between 2 and 15 Angstroms. The reformer is maintained at a temperature of between 800 and 1000 Celsius during operation. An air supply may be any source of oxygen such as a pressurized canister containing an oxygen atom liberating gas. Besides oxygen other gases suitable for oxygen extraction to form carbon monoxide from hydrocarbon feedstock include hydrogen peroxide water and carbon dioxide. Preferably the oxygen reactant from supply and hydrocarbon feedstock from the fuel tank are premixed before introduction into the reformer . Reformer output includes a hydrogen and carbon monoxide rich gaseous product. The output is fuel provided to fuel cell or engine . Engine may be an internal combustion engine a turbine and an electrical generator. Preferably fuel cell is a solid oxide fuel cell SOFC . Due to the susceptibility of many fuel cells to sulfur poisoning the hydrogen sulfide absorbent material is preferably placed intermediate between the output and the fuel cell . A simultaneous or as an alternative to output supplied to the fuel cell is output supplied to an engine . In this way a flexible electric power system is provided. Air or other suitable oxygen atom donor gas is provided to the fuel cell or engine to facilitate electrochemical combination and combustion respectively. Optionally the unreacted hydrogen from the fuel cell is supplied to the engine to improve performance of the engine . Combustion byproducts from the engine inclusive of uncombusted hydrocarbons carbon monoxide and various nitrogen oxides NO are optionally supplied to a catalytic converter conventional in the art such as those inclusive of a noble metal catalyst to produce carbon dioxide and water. In order to maintain a catalytic converter at a suitable catalytic operating temperature and or to preclude unneeded carbon monoxide from going to the atmosphere output may be provided directly to the catalytic converter simultaneous with or exclusive of output flows to one or both of the fuel cell and engine .

Control of the carbon to oxygen ratio C Oor simply C O is known to affect various aspects of the reformation process including yields of hydrogen and carbon monoxide gases and graphitic carbon formation. According to the inventive process it is preferred that a C O ratio is maintained generally above 0.5. Preferably the C O ratio is from 0.5 to 1 and more preferably from 0.6 to 0.95. A C O ratio of less than 0.5 favors excessive oxidation to yield carbon dioxide and water at the expense of hydrogen and carbon monoxide gases. A C O ratio above 1 tends to yield incomplete conversion and graphitic coke formation as well as undesired side reactions especially those involving organosulfur compounds.

The invention is further described with respect to the following examples which are not intended to limit the scope of the appended claims and merely provide exemplary compositions and processes according to the present invention.

50 grams of NaY zeolite was added to 200 milliliters of 2 molar ammonium nitrate aqueous solution and allowed to ion exchange with mechanical stirring for 22 hours at 20 Celsius. The suspension was centrifuged at 1500 revolutions per minute for 10 minutes and the resultant solid washed with deionized water. Centrifuging and washing were then repeated twice. The procedure of ammonium nitrate exchange centrifuging washing centrifuging washing centrifuging washing was then repeated twice. Solid ammonium Na Y zeolite was collected and dried in vacuo at 60 Celsius for 5 hours and then at 120 Celsius for 1 hour. The ammonium NaY zeolite was then ion exchanged with nitrate solutions of various rare earth elements at concentrations of 0.1 molar 0.2 molar or 0.4 molar each for 68 hours at which the molarity reflects concentration of the rare earth elements present.

Where mixed rare earth elements are introduced concentration is cumulative. By way of example ammonium NaY zeolite was exposed for ion exchange for 68 hours to a solution containing 0.05 molar samarium nitrate and 0.05 molar erbium nitrate to yield a total rare earth ion exchange solution concentration of 0.1 molar. After the 68 hour ion exchange period the centrifuging washing sequence was repeated three times followed by collection of a solid rare earth RE stabilized NaY zeolite RE NaY and dried in vacuo at 60 Celsius for 5 hours and then at 120 Celsius for 1 hour. The surface area associated with rare earth stabilized Y zeolites produced with 0.4 molar solutions of each of six rare earth element nitrates is reported in Table 1.

Weight percent of exemplary rare earth metals and the surface area as measured at 925 Celsius is reported in Table 2 as a function of the rare earth nitrate solution concentration used to perform exchange with ammonium NaY zeolite. The values found in Table 2 were measured by inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy and BET Burnauer Emmett Teller surface area analysis.

NaY or rare earth RE stabilized NaY zeolite of Example 1 was calcined with air flowing at 300 Celsius for 12 hours. The calcined NaY zeolite with or without rare earth exchange for sodium was degassed in a vacuum furnace at 250 Celsius for 12 hours and upon cooling was transferred along with all reagents to an argon blanketed glove box. A quantity of rhodium dicarbonyl acetyl acetate Rh CO acac was dissolved in pentane under argon. Acac refers to the anion of acetyl acetate. Degassed zeolite was then added to the flask and stirred at room temperature for 3 days. The solid from the flask was then transferred to an airtight quartz tube reactor and annealed with 5 carbon monoxide in argon at 125 Celsius for 8 hours. Thereafter the solid zeolite was annealed under helium at 200 Celsius for 12 hours to yield a zeolite with a rhodium metal cluster having a diameter of 3.1 Angstroms located within the super cage of the NaY zeolite or rare earth exchanged NaY zeolite.

1 gram of tungsten carbide WC nanotubes is degassed in a vacuum furnace 250 Celsius for 12 hours and subjected to exposure to a noble metal compound dissolved in pentane according to the procedure of Example 2 to produce rhodium metal clusters having a mean size of 3.1 Angstroms in diameter within the tungsten carbide nanotubes.

The procedure of Example 3 is repeated with platinum acetyl acetate Pt acac to achieve a platinum loading of 0.03 total weight percent of tungsten carbide nanotubes as measured by inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy.

A pentane based slurry of 0.25 grams of NaY zeolite powder was added to 6.1 grams of gamma alumina foam with mechanical stirring. On solvent evaporation the result was a coating on the alumina foam. The coated foam was calcined in air at 750 Celsius for 15 hours. On cooling the calcined powder was coated with 0.25 grams of rhodium nitrate in a solution of water that on solvent evaporation resulted in coating with rhodium nitrate and hydrates thereof. The resultant zeolite and rhodium nitrate coated alumina foam was calcined at 750 Celsius for 15 hours to yield a catalytic composition identified as Catalyst 2. The rhodium metal cluster was within the NaY zeolite super cage.

To compare the effectiveness of inventive catalytic compositions the procedure of Example 5a was repeated with the substitution of gamma alumina powder for NaY zeolite powder. The rest of the procedure remained the same and resulted in a conventional rhodium and gamma alumina on alumina foam catalyst was identified as Catalyst 1. The rhodium metal cluster was attached to the exterior surface of the gamma alumina.

Sm NaY zeolite powder produced by ion exchanging sodium in NaY zeolite with 0.4 molar samarium nitrate solution was prepared as described in Example 1. The Sm NaY zeolite was annealed with air flowing at 600 Celsius for 3 hours at 700 Celsius for 2 hours and then at 300 Celsius for 12 hours with all heating and cooling rates at 10 Celsius per minute. The procedure of Example 5a was repeated with the substitution of 2.5 grams of Sm exchanged NaY zeolite powder in place of NaY zeolite powder to produce a catalytic composition containing a rhodium metal cluster and Sm NaY zeolite. This catalyst was identified as Catalyst 3. The rhodium metal cluster was attached to the exterior surface of the NaY zeolite and not within the Sm NaY super cage.

Sm NaY zeolite powder was prepared as described in Example 6. Rhodium Rh metal clusters were inserted into the super cage of the Sm NaY zeolite by degassing the zeolite and the process of Example 2 repeated. The resulting 160 milligrams of Rh metal cluster Sm NaY zeolite and 220 milligrams of alumina binder were mixed with water solvent and coated onto 6.1 grams of alumina foam with mechanical stirring and the evaporation of the solvent. The resultant coated foam was calcined at 700 Celsius for 15 hours to form a catalytic composition having rhodium metal clusters of 8 Angstrom diameter within the super cage of the Sm NaY zeolite identified as Catalyst 4.

Alumina foam is coated with a slurry of 50 milligrams of tungsten carbide nanotubes containing rhodium metal clusters formed according to the procedure of Example 4 along with 220 milligrams of alumina binder. The tungsten carbide nanotubes containing rhodium metal clusters and alumina binder coating the alumina foam are calcined together at 700 Celsius for 15 hours to produce a catalyst identified as Catalyst 5. The rhodium metal cluster is surrounded by the tungsten carbide nanotube.

The basis for calculating H selectivity for hydrogen gas production based on steam addition should be identified. Counting all reformate water produced in total H production underestimates H selectivity with excess water added effectively lowering selectivity. In the alternative not counting reformate water in total H production overestimates H selectivity. Therefore in the data reported herein additional water is reported in the total H selectivity only. That is water in reformate HO less feed water HO is counted to give a direct comparison with dry reformation. H selectivity of a given species A as used herein is equal to H atoms from species A divided by total H atoms fuel plus HO HO . The H or C selectivity of Catalyst 1 operating at C O ratio of 0.9 is reported in as a function of HO C ratio. Due to thermal instability of zeolite structure in Catalyst 2 the activity of Catalyst 2 degraded continuously once the reaction started. The H or C selectivity as a function of hours continuous testing for Catalyst 3 is reported in for a hydrocarbon feedstock of JP 8 containing 1096 ppmw sulfur and operating at C O of 0.9 and HO C of 0.5. The H or C selectivity for Catalyst 4 operating at HO C of 0 is reported in as a function of C Oratio with the quantity of reaction products reported. H or C selectivity for Catalyst 4 as a function of C Oratio is reported in for an HO C ratio of 1. H selectivity of hydrogen plotted for comparative Catalyst 1 as well as Catalysts 3 and Catalyst 4 under the HO C ratios is reported in as a function of C Oratio. It is noted that Catalyst 5 has operational selectivity comparable to that of Catalyst 4 with less activity decay compared to Catalysts 1 4. The inventive process yields a total hydrogen and carbon monoxide concentration i.e. water free nitrogen gas free of between 84 and 93 percent of theoretical yield.

Selected performance results of Catalysts 1 3 and 4 are shown in Table 3. Under the optimum conditions HO C C O gas hourly space velocity or GHSV in Runs B C and D the total concentration of hydrogen and carbon monoxide for Catalysts 1 3 and 4 were 93.0 93.2 and 83.6 respectively. Catalyst 3 gave the lowest catalyst temperature which resulted in slowest catalyst aggregation. However Catalyst 4 performed better to give higher total concentration than Catalyst 3 under certain conditions as in Runs A and B. In other conditions Runs E and F Catalyst 1 performed better than Catalyst 3.

Patents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. These documents and publications are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each individual document or publication was specifically and individually incorporated herein by reference.

The foregoing description is illustrative of particular embodiments of the invention but is not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof. The following claims including all equivalents thereof are intended to define the scope of the invention.

