---

title: Computer readable medium for implementing supply chain control using service-oriented methodology
abstract: Methods and apparatus, including systems and computer program products, for a services architecture design that provides enterprise services having supply chain control functionality at the level of an enterprise application. The design includes a set of service operations, process components, and optionally deployment units. Suitable business objects are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08359218&OS=08359218&RS=08359218
owner: SAP AG
number: 08359218
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20080918
---
This specification relates to data processing systems implemented on computers and more particular to data processing systems providing services in the nature of web services.

Enterprise software systems are generally large and complex. Such systems can require many different components distributed across many different hardware platforms possibly in several different geographical locations. Thus the architecture of a large software application i.e. what its components are and how they fit together is an important aspect of its design for a successful implementation.

Web services are one technology for making the functionality of software applications available to other software including other applications. A web service is a standards based way of encapsulating the functionality of an application that other applications can locate and access. A service oriented architecture is a distributed software model within which functionality is defined as independent web services. Within a service oriented architecture web services can be used in defined sequences according to business logic to form applications that enable business processes.

This specification describes a services architecture design that provides enterprise services having supply chain control functionality at the level of an enterprise application. Enterprise services are web services that have an enterprise level business value.

In its various aspects the invention can be embodied in systems methods and computer program products. For example a system in one embodiment implements a services architecture design that provides enterprise services having supply chain control functionality at the level of an enterprise application. The design includes a set of service operations process components and optionally deployment units. Suitable business objects are also described.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Effective use is made of process components as units of software reuse to provide a design that can be implemented reliably in a cost effective way. Effective use is made of deployment units each of which is deployable on a separate computer hardware platform independent of every other deployment unit to provide a scalable design. Service interfaces of the process components define a pair wise interaction between pairs of process components that are in different deployment units in a scalable way.

Details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and in the description below. Further features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

The elements of the architecture include the business object the process component the service operation or simply the operation the service interface the message and the deployment unit. The elements can also include process agents and reuse service components. These will be generally described below.

In some implementations the software is implemented to be deployed on an application platform that includes a foundation layer that contains all fundamental entities that can be used from multiple deployment units. These entities can be process components business objects or reuse service components. A reuse service component is a piece of software that is reused in different transactions. A reuse service component is used by its defined interfaces which can be e.g. local APIs Application Programming Interfaces or service interfaces.

The architectural design is a specification of a computer software application and elements of the architectural design can be implemented to realize a software application that implements enterprise application service interfaces. The elements of the architecture are at times described in this specification as being contained or included in other elements for example a process component is described as being contained in a deployment unit. It should be understood however that such operational inclusion can be realized in a variety of ways and is not limited to a physical inclusion of the entirety of one element in another.

The architectural elements include the business object. A business object is a representation of a type of a uniquely identifiable business entity an object instance described by a structural model. Processes operate on business objects.

A business object represents a specific view on some well defined business content. A business object represents content and instances of business objects include content which a typical business user would expect and understand with little explanation. Whether an object as a type or an instance of an object is intended by the term object is generally clear from the context so the distinction will be made explicitly only when necessary. Also for convenience and brevity an object instance may be described in this specification as being or including a real world event activity item or the like however such description should be understood as stating that the object instance represents i.e. contains data representing the respective event activity item or the like. Properly implemented business objects are implemented free of redundancies.

Business objects are further categorized as business process objects master data objects mass data run objects dependent objects and transformed objects. A master data object is an object that encapsulates master data i.e. data that is valid for a period of time . A business process object which is the kind of business object generally found in a process component is an object that encapsulates transactional data i.e. data that is valid for a point in time . A mass data run object is an application object that executes an algorithm for a particular mass data run. An instance of a mass data run object embodies or contains a particular set of selections and parameters. A mass data run object implements an algorithm that modifies manages and or processes a large amount of data in multiple transactions possibly but not necessarily with parallel processing. A dependent object is a business object used as a reuse part in another business object. A dependent object represents a concept that cannot stand by itself from a business point of view. Instances of dependent objects only occur in the context of a non dependent business object. A transformed object is a transformation of multiple business objects for a well defined purpose. It transforms the structure of multiple business objects into a common structure. A transformed object does not have its own persistency.

The architectural elements also include the process component. A process component is a software package that realizes a business process and generally exposes its functionality as services. The functionality includes the ability to perform all or parts of particular kinds of business transactions. A process component contains one or more semantically related business objects. Any business object belongs to no more than one process component.

Process components are modular and context independent. That they are context independent means that a process component is not specific to any specific application and is reusable. The process component is the smallest most granular element of reuse in the architecture.

The architectural elements also include the operation. An operation belongs to exactly one process component. A process component generally has multiple operations. Operations can be synchronous or asynchronous corresponding to synchronous or asynchronous process agents which will be described below. An operation is the smallest separately callable function described by a set of data types used as input output and fault parameters or some combination of them serving as a signature. For convenience in supporting use of the operations supported by a system implementing elements of the design such a system can optionally include a repository of service descriptions that includes a standards based description of each of the supported service operations.

The architectural elements also optionally include the service interface which may be referred to simply as an interface. An interface is a named group of operations. Each operation belongs to exactly one interface. An interface belongs to exactly one process component. A process component might implement multiple interfaces. In some implementations an interface will have only inbound or outbound operations but not a mixture of both. One interface can include both synchronous and asynchronous operations. All operations of the same type either inbound or outbound which belong to the same message choreography will preferably belong to the same interface. Thus generally all outbound operations to the same other process component are in one interface.

The architectural elements also include the message. Operations transmit and receive messages. Any convenient messaging infrastructure can be used. A message is information conveyed from one process component instance to another with the expectation that activity will ensue. An operation can use multiple message types for inbound outbound or error messages. When two process components are in different deployment units invocation of an operation of one process component by the other process component is accomplished by an operation on the other process component sending a message to the first process component.

The architectural elements also include the process agent. Process agents do business processing that involves the sending or receiving of messages. Each operation will generally have at least one associated process agent. A process agent can be associated with one or more operations. Process agents can be either inbound or outbound and either synchronous or asynchronous.

Asynchronous outbound process agents are called after a business object changes e.g. after a create update or delete of a business object instance.

An outbound process agent will generally perform some processing of the data of the business object instance whose change triggered the agent or caused the agent to be called. An outbound agent triggers subsequent business process steps by sending messages using well defined outbound services to another process component which generally will be in another deployment unit or to an external system. An outbound process agent is linked to the one business object that triggers the agent but it is sent not to another business object but rather to another process component. Thus the outbound process agent can be implemented without knowledge of the exact business object design of the recipient process component.

Inbound process agents are called after a message has been received. Inbound process agents are used for the inbound part of a message based communication. An inbound process agent starts the execution of the business process step requested in a message by creating or updating one or multiple business object instances. An inbound process agent is not the agent of a business object but of its process component. An inbound process agent can act on multiple business objects in a process component.

Synchronous agents are used when a process component requires a more or less immediate response from another process component and is waiting for that response to continue its work.

Operations and process components are described in this specification in terms of process agents. However in alternative implementations process components and operations can be implemented without use of agents using other conventional techniques to perform the functions described in this specification.

The architectural elements also include the deployment unit. A deployment unit includes one or more process components and optionally one or more business objects that are deployed together on a single computer system platform. Conversely separate deployment units can be deployed on separate physical computing systems. For this reason a deployment unit boundary defines the limits of an application defined transaction i.e. a set of actions that have the ACID properties of atomicity consistency isolation and durability. To make use of database manager facilities the architecture requires that all operations of such a transaction be performed on one physical database as a consequence the processes of such a transaction must be performed by the process components of one instance of one deployment unit.

The process components of one deployment unit interact with those of another deployment unit using messages passed through one or more data communication networks or other suitable communication channels. Thus a deployment unit deployed on a platform belonging one business can interact with a deployment unit software entity deployed on a separate platform belonging to a different and unrelated business allowing for business to business communication. More than one instance of a given deployment unit can execute at the same time on the same computing system or on separate physical computing systems. This arrangement allows the functionality offered by a deployment unit to be scaled to meet demand by creating as many instances as needed.

Since interaction between deployment units is through service operations a deployment unit can be replaced by other another deployment unit as long as the new deployment unit supports the operations depended upon by other deployment units. Thus while deployment units can depend on the external interfaces of process components in other deployment units deployment units are not dependent on process component interactions i.e. interactions between process components involving their respective business objects operations interfaces and messages within other deployment units. Similarly process components that interact with other process components or external systems only through messages e.g. as sent and received by operations can also be replaced as long as the replacement supports the operations of the original.

Interactions between process components that occur only within a deployment unit are not constrained to using service operations. These can be implemented in any convenient fashion.

In contrast to a deployment unit the foundation layer does not define a limit for application defined transactions. Deployment units communicate directly with entities in the foundation layer which communication is typically not message based. The foundation layer is active in every system instance on which the application is deployed. Business objects in the foundation layer will generally be master data objects. In addition the foundation layer will include some business process objects that are used by multiple deployment units. Master data objects and business process objects that should be specific to a deployment unit are assigned to their respective deployment unit.

As shown in a Supply Chain Control deployment unit includes a Supply and Demand Matching process component a Customer Requirement Processing process component a Production Trigger and Response process component an In House Requirement Processing process component a Logistics Execution Control process component a Demand Forecast Processing process component and an External Procurement Trigger and Response process component .

The Supply and Demand Matching process component manages the tasks performed to ensure that sufficient material receipt elements exist to cover material demand while taking available capacity into account. The Supply and Demand Matching process component includes a Supply Planning Requirement business object an Order Fulfillment Planning View transformed object a Capacity Load Planning View transformed object a Planning View of Inventory business object a Planned Material Flow business object a Planned Independent Requirement business object a Production Planning Order business object a Procurement Planning Order business object a Supply Planning Exception business object a Material Supply and Demand View transformed object a Material Requirements Planning Run mass data run object and a Supply Planning Exception View transformed object .

The Supply Planning Requirement business object is a requirement that is derived from a business document such as a sales order an internal requirement or a scheduling agreement and to which details on the anticipated availability date have been added. It contains the material quantities required on specific dates as well as information on which quantities are available on which dates.

The Order Fulfillment Planning View transformed object is a single level or multi level planning view of receipts that are needed to fulfill a material requirement or of requirements that use a material receipt. The Capacity Load Planning View transformed object is a planning view of the capacity load of a resource in an evaluation period. The Planning View of Inventory business object is a view of a material stock aggregated at the level of a supply planning area. The Planned Material Flow business object is a material flow from a planned receipt to a planned requirement for a predetermined quantity. The Planned Independent Requirement business object is an independent requirement derived from a forecast and planned for a material for a particular time period in a particular supply planning area.

The Production Planning Order business object is a request made to a planning area e.g. supply planning area to initiate the production of a particular quantity of a material on a defined date. The Procurement Planning Order business object is a planned order for procuring materials that is to be placed with an external vendor. It defines required quantities and availability dates. The Supply Planning Exception business object is an exception that reports an incorrect planning situation or an unsolved problem or error in supply planning. The Supply Planning Exception View transformed object is a view that provides both aggregated and detailed information for supply planning exceptions.

The Material Supply and Demand View transformed object is an overview of the supply and demand situation for a particular material in a supply planning area. It provides supply planning functions and a projection of the development of the stock. The Material Requirements Planning Run mass data run object is a specification of an automated run that plans material requirements based on selected material supply and demand views.

The Customer Requirement Processing process component controls customer requirements in the supply chain e.g. checking material availability receiving preparing and passing customer requirements on to supply planning and logistics and providing feedback on fulfillment. The Customer Requirement Processing process component includes a Customer Requirement business object and an Available to Promise Check Run mass data run object .

The Customer Requirement business object is a requirement that is derived from a sales order quotation or service order and to which details on the anticipated availability date of materials required to fulfill the requirement may be added. The business object includes requirements for the quantities of materials used at specific dates as well as information about which materials will be available or delivered in particular quantities at particular dates. The Available to Promise Check Run mass data run object is a specification of an automated run that performs an available to promise check based on customer requirements.

The Production Trigger and Response process component is the interface between planning and production. It handles production requisitions receives information about the production progress and updates the planning data accordingly. The Production Trigger and Response process component includes a Production Requisition business object and a Supply Planning Request Production Run mass data run object . The Production Requisition business object is a requisition to production execution to produce a certain quantity of a specific material by a requested due date. The Supply Planning Request Production Run mass data run object is a specification of an automated run that creates production requisitions for materials based on selected production planning orders.

The In House Requirement Processing process component processes in house requirements. Using an interface to self service procurement the In House Requirement Processing process component receives prepares and passes the in house requirements to supply planning and logistics. The In House Requirement Processing process component includes an In House Requirement business object . The In House Requirement business object is a requirement that expresses an internal customer demand from within the company.

The Logistics Execution Control process component creates controls and monitors the supply chain execution activities that are necessary for the fulfillment of an order on a macro logistics level. The Logistics Execution Control process component triggers the necessary site logistics activities and receives information about the supply chain execution progress. The Logistics Execution Control process component includes a Request Logistics Execution Run mass data run object a Logistics Execution Requisition business object and a Site Logistics Requisition business object .

The Request Logistics Execution Run mass data run object is a specification of an automated run releasing selected logistics execution activities of logistics execution requisitions that are due or overdue. The Logistics Execution Requisition business object is a requisition to logistics to control trigger and monitor the execution of a logistic process on a macro logistics level to fulfill an order. The Site Logistics Requisition business object is a request to logistics execution to execute a site logistics process for a certain quantity of material by a certain time.

The Demand Forecast Processing process component receives processes and subsequently releases demand forecasts to planned independent requirements. The Demand Forecast Processing process component includes a Demand Forecast business object . The Demand Forecast business object is a forecast of a material demand in a particular supply planning area.

The External Procurement Trigger and Response process component manages all of the tasks necessary for processing procurement planning orders and interfacing to purchasing from a supply planning perspective. The External Procurement Trigger and Response process component includes a Supply Planning Request Production Run mass data run object a Purchase Requisition business object and a Planning View of Purchase Order business object . The Supply Planning Request Procurement Run mass data run object is a specification of an automated run that creates purchase requisitions for materials based on selected procurement planning orders. The Purchase Requisition business object is a requisition to purchasing for the external procurement of materials planned in supply and demand matching. The Purchase Requisition business object is derived from the procurement planning order and describes which materials are to be procured in what quantities and at what time. The Planning View of Purchase Order business object is a planning view of the materials date quantities delivery conditions parties and sources of supply of a purchase order that are relevant to planning.

As shown in a Business Planning deployment unit includes a Demand Planning process component a Purchase Planning process component and a Business Plan Foundation process component . The Demand Planning process component provides accurate and measurable estimates of future demand. The Demand Planning process component includes a Demand Plan business object a Demand Plan Preparation Run mass data run object a Demand Plan Forecast Run mass data run object a Demand Plan Release Run mass data run object and a Demand Plan Structural Adjustment Run mass data run object .

The Demand Plan business object is a collection of quantitative forecasts of the product demands within a planning period. These forecasts are generated as required e.g. at product brand or customer group level . The Demand Plan Preparation Run mass data run object is a specification for an automated run that prepares a set of demand plans for forecasting. The Demand Plan Forecast Run mass data run object is a specification for an automated run that performs forecasting and planning of material demands in certain supply planning areas based on a set of demand plans. The Demand Plan Release Run mass data run object is a specification for an automated run that releases forecasted quantities of material in a certain supply planning area for a specified horizon to supply chain planning based on a set of demand plans. The Demand Plan Structural Adjustment Run mass data run object is a specification for an automated run that adjusts the time series for selected demand plans in business intelligence according to structural changes that may have been made to them.

The Purchase Planning process component provides accurate and measurable estimates of future purchasing volume. The Purchase Planning process component includes a Purchase Plan business object . The Purchase Plan business object is a structural description of a plan referring to actual and forecast data based on past purchasing volume.

The Business Plan Foundation process component includes a Business Plan Foundation dependent object and a Value Help for Business Plan Foundation technical object . The Business Plan Foundation dependent object is a generic basis of a plan that abstracts the structure and references the planning data. The Value Help for Business Plan Foundation technical object is a value help enabler for elements of the Business Plan Foundation dependent object .

The Purchase Request Processing process component sends a message to the External Procurement Trigger and Response process component . The message is received in a Change Purchase Requisition Based on Purchase Request operation . The operation confirms to the requester the extent to which a purchase requisition has been fulfilled. The Change Purchase Requisition Based on Purchase Request operation is included in a Purchasing In interface . The operation uses a Change Purchase Requisition Based on Purchase Request asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Purchase Requisition business object . The Change Purchase Requisition Based on Purchase Request asynchronous inbound process agent receives the rejection data of the purchase request confirmation and updates the purchase requisition. The Purchase Requisition business object represents a requisition to purchasing for the external procurement of materials planned in supply and demand matching. The purchase requisition is derived from the procurement planning order and describes which materials are to be procured in what quantities and at what time. The operation sends a purchase request confirmation to update the Purchase Requisition business object if input is received from the Purchase Request Processing process component .

The Purchase Requisition business object uses a Request Purchasing from Purchase Requisition to Purchase Request Processing asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Request Purchasing operation . The Request Purchasing from Purchase Requisition to Purchase Request Processing asynchronous outbound process agent sends new purchase requisition or changes of an existing purchase requisition to purchasing.

The Request Purchasing operation requests the procurement of goods and or services. The Request Purchasing operation is included in a Purchasing Out interface . The operation sends a purchase request to the Purchase Request Processing process component .

The Purchase Order Processing process component sends a message to the External Procurement Trigger and Response process component . The message is received in a Maintain Planning View of Purchase Order operation . The operation updates the planning view of purchase order data with information about new or changed purchase orders. The operation is included in an Ordering Notification In interface . The Maintain Planning View of Purchase Order operation uses a Maintain Planning View of Purchase Order asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Planning View of Purchase Order business object . The operation sends a purchase order notification to update the Planning View of Purchase Order business object if input is received from the Purchase Order Processing process component .

The Planning View of Purchase Order business object can receive updated information and send the update into another component to perform further operations. A Notify of Purchase Order Delivery Values from Planning View of Purchase Order to Purchase Order Processing asynchronous outbound process agent receives information from the Planning View of Purchase Order business object . The Planning View of Purchase Order business object represents a planning view of the materials date quantities delivery conditions parties and sources of supply of a purchase order that are relevant to planning.

The Notify of Purchase Order Delivery Values from Planning View of Purchase Order to Purchase Order Processing asynchronous outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Purchase Order Delivery Values operation which notifies purchasing of the fulfillment of a purchase order. The operation is included in a Fulfillment Out interface . The operation sends a purchase request to the Purchase Order Processing process component .

The External Procurement Trigger and Response process component also includes business objects that may not have external interfaces. These business objects include the Supply Planning Request Procurement Run business object . The Supply Planning Request Procurement Run business object is a specification of an automated run that creates purchase requisitions for materials based on selected procurement planning orders.

The Demand Planning processing component sends a message to the Demand Forecasting processing component . The message is received in a Maintain Demand Forecast operation . The Maintain Demand Forecast operation creates updates and deletes the demand forecast object with the given forecast data. The Maintain Demand Forecast operation is included in a Demand Forecasting In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Demand Forecast asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Demand Forecast business object . The Demand Forecast business object represents a forecast of a material demand in a particular supply planning area.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include a Customer Quote Processing process component a Sales Order Processing process component a Service Order Processing process component and a Customer Complaint Processing process component . The Customer Quote Processing process component processes quotes for customers offering the delivery of goods according to specific terms. The Sales Order Processing process component processes customer requests to sellers for the delivery of goods on specific dates for specific quantities and for specific prices. The Service Order Processing process component creates plans and fulfills service orders which can be executed by a service engineer at a customer site for an agreed price. The Customer Complaint Processing process component processes complaints received from customers.

As shown in the Customer Quote Processing process component the Sales Order Processing process component the Service Order Processing process component or the Customer Complaint Processing process component invokes a Maintain Customer Requirement operation or a Delete Provisional Customer Requirement operation . The Maintain Customer Requirement operation creates or changes a customer requirement. The Delete Provisional Customer Requirement operation deletes provisional customer requirements that have been created by a synchronous check availability and reserve operation. The operations and are included in a Fulfillment In interface .

Either the Maintain Customer Requirement operation or the Delete Provisional Customer Requirement operation uses a Maintain Customer Requirement asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Customer Requirement business object . The Customer Requirement business object is a requirement that is derived from a sales order quotation or service order and to which details on the anticipated availability date of materials required to fulfill the requirement may be added. It contains the quantities of materials required at specific dates as well as information about which materials will be available or delivered in which quantities at which dates. The Maintain Customer Requirement asynchronous inbound process agent receives a customer requirement fulfillment request and updates the corresponding customer requirement instance.

As shown in the process components and can also invoke a Check Availability operation or a Check Availability and Reserve operation . The Check Availability operation checks the availability of certain amounts of materials at certain dates and sends this information back to the caller. The Check Availability and Reserve operation checks and confirms the availability of a specific amount of material. The operations and are included in the Fulfillment In interface .

The Check Availability operation uses a Check Availability synchronous inbound process agent to update the Customer Requirement business object . The Check Availability synchronous inbound process agent receives a request for a non reserving available to promise check and triggers the corresponding customer requirement services.

The Check Availability and Reserve operation uses a Check Availability and Reserve synchronous inbound process agent to update the Customer Requirement business object . The Check Availability and Reserve synchronous inbound process agent receives a request for a reserving available to promise check and triggers the corresponding customer requirement services.

An update or a creation of the Customer Requirement business object can trigger a Confirm Fulfillment of Customer Requirement asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Fulfillment operation in a Fulfillment Out interface . The Confirm Fulfillment of Customer Requirement asynchronous outbound process agent sends the fulfillment confirmation to the process component that requested the fulfillment. The Confirm Fulfillment operation confirms the partial or complete fulfillment of a customer requirement to the creator of the requirement.

An update or a creation of the Customer Requirement business object may also trigger a Notify of Availability Update from Customer Requirement asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Availability Update operation in the Fulfillment Out interface . The Notify of Availability Update from Customer Requirement asynchronous outbound process agent sends the availability update notification to the process component that requested the availability check. The Notify of Availability Update operation notifies the creator of a customer requirement about an updated availability for requested materials.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include an Outbound Delivery Processing process component an Inbound Delivery Processing process component a Site Logistics Processing process component and the Supply and Demand Matching process component .

The Outbound Delivery Processing process component manages and processes the outbound delivery requirements for shipping goods to a product recipient. It combines all document based tasks for the outbound delivery process and enables communication with the originating document e.g. fulfillment the product recipient and invoicing.

The Inbound Delivery Processing process component manages and processes the inbound delivery requirements for received goods from a vendor. It combines all document based tasks for the inbound delivery process and enables communication with the originating document e.g. fulfillment the vendor and invoicing.

The Site Logistics Processing process component prepares executes and confirms logistics processes within a site. Logistics processes which are based on site logistics process models include picking packing shipping receiving as well as value added services.

The Supply and Demand Matching process component manages all of the tasks necessary to ensure that sufficient material receipt elements exist to cover material demand while taking available capacity into account.

As shown in the Logistics Execution Control process component includes the Planning View of Inventory business object the Logistics Execution Requisition business object the Site Logistics Requisition business object and the Request Logistics Execution Run business object . The Planning View of Inventory business object represents a specification of an automated run releasing selected logistics execution activities of Logistics Execution Requisitions that are due or overdue. The Logistics Execution Requisition business object represents a requisition to logistics to control trigger and monitor the execution of a logistic process on a macro logistics level to fulfill an order. The Site Logistics Requisition business object is a request to logistics execution to execute a site logistics process for a certain quantity of material by a certain time. The Request Logistics Execution Run business object represents a specification of an automated run releasing selected logistics execution activities of logistics execution requisitions that are due or overdue.

The Logistics Execution Control process component includes a Change Logistics Execution Requisition Based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation operation in a Fulfillment In interface . The Change Logistics Execution Requisition Based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation operation updates logistics execution control with fulfillment confirmation data from an inbound or outbound delivery request. The Change Logistics Execution Requisition Based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation operation can trigger a Change Logistics Execution Requisition Based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Logistics Execution Requisition business object . The Change Logistics Execution Requisition Based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent updates a logistic execution request with fulfillment data from outbound or inbound delivery processing.

An update to the Logistics Execution Requisition business object may trigger a Request Fulfillment from Logistics Execution Requisition to Outbound Delivery Processing asynchronous outbound process agent and or a Request Fulfillment from Logistics Execution Requisition to Inbound Delivery Processing asynchronous outbound process agent . The Request Fulfillment from Logistics Execution Requisition to Outbound Delivery Processing requests fulfillment of an outbound delivery from outbound delivery processing. The Request Fulfillment from Logistics Execution Requisition to Inbound Delivery Processing asynchronous outbound process agent requests fulfillment of an inbound delivery from inbound delivery processing.

If the Request Fulfillment from Logistics Execution Requisition to Outbound Delivery Processing asynchronous outbound process agent is triggered the asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request Delivery Fulfillment operation in a Fulfillment Out interface to create or update an outbound delivery request. If the Request Fulfillment from Logistics Execution Requisition to Inbound Delivery Processing asynchronous outbound process agent is triggered the Request Delivery Fulfillment operation can be invoked to create or update an inbound delivery request.

As shown in a Site Logistics Processing In interface includes a Change Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics Request Confirmation operation and a Change Based on Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation . The Change Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics Request Confirmation operation updates logistics execution control with confirmation data and inventory change data from a site logistics request. The Change Based on Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation reconciles a site logistics requisition with its related site logistics request.

The operations and trigger a Maintain Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics inbound process agent . The Maintain Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics inbound process agent performs the creation or updating of a site logistics requisition and also performs the reconciliation of a site logistics requisition. The Maintain Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics inbound process agent asynchronously updates the Site Logistics Requisition business object . The Maintain Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics inbound process agent may also synchronously update the Planning View of Inventory business object . The Supply and Demand Matching process component can also receive an update from the Maintain Site Logistics Requisition based on Site Logistics inbound process agent .

A Site Logistics Notification In interface includes a Maintain Site Logistics Requisition operation and a Maintain Based on Site Logistics Request Notification Reconciliation operation . The Maintain Site Logistics Requisition operation creates or updates a site logistics requisition with relevant inventory changes from a site logistics request. The Maintain Based on Site Logistics Request Notification Reconciliation operation reconciles a site logistics requisition with its related site logistics request.

The operations and trigger a Maintain Site Logistics Requisition based on Site Logistics Request Notification inbound process agent . The Maintain Site Logistics Requisition based on Site Logistics Request Notification inbound process agent creates or updates a site logistics requisition and also performs the reconciliation of a site logistics requisition. The Maintain Site Logistics Requisition based on Site Logistics Request Notification inbound process agent asynchronously updates the Site Logistics Requisition business object . The Maintain Site Logistics Requisition based on Site Logistics Request Notification inbound process agent may also synchronously update the Planning View of Inventory business object . The Supply and Demand Matching process component can also receive an update from the Maintain Site Logistics Requisition based on Site Logistics Request Notification inbound process agent .

An update of the Site Logistics Requisition business object can trigger a Request Site Logistics Processing from Site Logistics Requisition to Site Logistics Processing asynchronous outbound process agent . The Request Site Logistics Processing from Site Logistics Requisition to Site Logistics Processing asynchronous outbound process agent requests site logistics processing. The Request Site Logistics Processing from Site Logistics Requisition to Site Logistics Processing asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request Site Logistics operation in a Site Logistics Processing Out interface to request the creation updating or deletion of a site logistics request.

For convenience in describing this process component process components which are not part of the process component being described are shown in the figure. These other process components include a Production process component and the Supply and Demand Matching process component . These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required.

The Production process component is related to the execution of production on a shop floor for example. It includes preparation execution confirmation and completion as well as more general functions e.g. scheduling and monitoring.

The Supply and Demand Matching process component manages all of the tasks necessary to ensure that sufficient material receipt elements exist to cover material demand while taking available capacity into account.

As shown in the Production Trigger and Response process component includes the Production Requisition business object and the Planning View of Inventory business object . The Production Requisition business object is a requisition to production execution to produce a certain quantity of a specific material by a requested due date. The Planning View of Inventory business object is a view of a material stock aggregated at the level of the supply planning area.

The Production Trigger and Response process component also includes business objects that may not have external interfaces. These business objects include the Supply Planning Request Production Run business object . The Supply Planning Request Production Run business object is a specification of an automated run that creates production requisitions for materials based on selected production planning orders.

The Production Trigger and Response process component includes a Change Production Requisition Based on Production Request Confirmation operation and a Change Production Requisition Based on Production Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation in a Producing In interface . The Change Production Requisition Based on Production Request Confirmation operation can receive confirmation of the maintenance of a production request and its execution from the Production process component .

The Change Production Requisition Based on Production Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation can receive reconciliation of a production request confirmation from the Production process component . The operations and then trigger a Maintain Production Requisition Based on Production asynchronous inbound process agent . The Maintain Production Requisition Based on Production asynchronous inbound process agent then updates the Planning View of Inventory business object and can also update the Production Requisition business object .

An update or a creation of the Production Requisition business object may trigger a Request Production from Production Requisition to Production asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Request Production operation in a Producing Out interface . The Request Production operation then sends a request to the Production process component to produce a certain quantity of a specific material by a requested due date.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required.

These other process components include an Inventory Processing process component and the Site Logistics Processing process component . The Inventory Processing process component manages inventory and recording of inventory changes. It provides services to maintain current stock content and structure of logistic units and allocations. The Site Logistics Processing process component is involved with the preparation physical execution and confirmation of logistics processes within a site. Logistics processes which are based on site logistics process models include picking packing shipping and receiving as well as value added services.

As shown in the Supply and Demand Matching process component includes the Planning View of Inventory business object and the Planned Material Flow business object . The Planning View of Inventory business object is a view of a material stock aggregated at the level of the supply planning area. The Planned Material Flow business object is a material flow from a planned receipt to a planned requirement for a predetermined quantity. The Supply and Demand Matching process component also includes business objects that may not have external interfaces. These business objects include the Supply Planning Requirement business object the Planned Independent Requirement business object the Procurement Planning Order business object the Production Planning Order business object the Supply Planning Exception business object the Order Fulfillment Planning View business object the Capacity Load Planning View business object the Material Supply and Demand View business object the Material Requirements Planning Run master data run object and the Supply Planning Exception View business object .

The Supply Planning Requirement business object is a requirement that is derived from a business document such as a sales order an internal requirement or a scheduling agreement and to which details on the anticipated availability date have been added. It contains the material quantities required on specific dates as well as information on which quantities are available on which dates.

The Order Fulfillment Planning View business object is a single level or multi level planning view of receipts that are needed to fulfill a material requirement or of requirements that use a material receipt.

The Capacity Load Planning View business object is a planning view of the capacity load of a resource in an evaluation period.

The Planned Independent Requirement business object is an independent requirement derived from the forecast and planned for a material for a particular time period in a particular supply planning area. The Production Planning Order business object is a request made to a planning area e.g. supply planning area to initiate the production of a particular quantity of a material on a defined date.

The Procurement Planning Order business object is a planned order for procuring materials that is to be placed with an external vendor. It defines required quantities and availability dates.

The Supply Planning Exception business object is an exception that reports an incorrect planning situation or an unsolved problem or error in supply planning.

The Supply Planning Exception View business object is a view that provides both aggregated and detailed information for supply planning exceptions.

The Material Supply and Demand View business object is an overview of the supply and demand situation for a particular material in a supply planning area. It provides supply planning functions and a projection of the development of the stock.

The Material Requirements Planning Run master data run object is a specification of an automated run that plans material requirements based on selected material supply and demand views.

A Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Inventory Reconciliation operation in an Inventory Reconciliation In interface receives a planning view of inventory reconciliation notification from one or more external components. The Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Inventory Reconciliation operation carries out an absolute quantity update of a stock item disaggregated actual inventory quantity information that is mapped for a material and certain usability in a supply planning area in a certain inventory managed location and for a certain identified stock in the process component supply and demand matching.

The Inventory Processing process component may notify the Maintain Planning View of Inventory Based on Inventory Reconciliation operation to update the Planning view of Inventory business object using a Maintain Planning View of Inventory Based on Inventory Reconciliation asynchronous inbound process agent .

A Maintain Planning View of Inventory Based on Logistics Confirmation operation in an Inventory Changing In interface can receive a logistics confirmation inventory change notification from one or more external components. The Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Logistics Confirmation operation carries out a relative quantity change to an inventory item disaggregated actual inventory quantity information that is mapped for a material and certain usability in a supply planning area in a certain inventory managed location and for certain identified stock in the process component supply and demand matching.

The Inventory Processing process component or the Site Logistics Processing processes component may notify the Maintain Planning View of Inventory Based on Logistics Confirmation operation to update the Planned Material Flow business object using a Maintain Planning View of Inventory Based on Logistics Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent .

For convenience in describing this process component other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. The other process component in this example includes an Internal Request Processing process component . The Internal Request Processing process component manages and processes internal requests from employees.

As shown in the In House Requirement Processing process component includes an Internal Fulfillment In interface that includes a Maintain In House Requirement operation . The Maintain In House Requirement operation uses a Maintain In House Requirement asynchronous inbound process agent to update the In House Requirement business object .

The Internal Fulfillment In interface also includes a Check Availability for In House Requisition and Reserve operation and a Check Availability for In House Requisition operation .

Either the Check Availability for In House Requisition and Reserve operation or the Check Availability for In House Requisition operation triggers a Synchronous Check Availability synchronous inbound process agent to update the In House Requirement business object . The In House Requirement business object represents a requirement that expresses an internal customer demand from within the company. The Synchronous Check Availability synchronous inbound process agent receives a request for a reserving or non reserving available to promise check and triggers the corresponding customer requirement service.

An update or a creation of the In House Requirement business object triggers a Confirm Fulfillment from In House Requirement to Internal Request Processing asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Fulfillment operation in an Internal Fulfillment Out interface . The Confirm Fulfillment from In House Requirement to Internal Request Processing asynchronous outbound process agent sends the fulfillment confirmation to the process component that requested the fulfillment.

An update or a creation of the In House Requirement business object can trigger a Notify of Available to Promise Update from In House Requirement to Internal Request asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Availability Update operation in the Internal Fulfillment Out interface . The Notify of Availability Update operation notifies about updated availability for requested materials.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. The other process components in this example include the Demand Forecast Processing process component . The Demand Forecast Processing process component receives processes and subsequently releases demand forecasts to planned independent requirements.

The Demand Planning processing component includes the Demand Plan business object . The Demand Plan business object represents a collection of quantitative forecasts of the product demands within a planning period. These forecasts are generated as required e.g. at product brand or customer group level . An update or a creation of the Demand Plan business object can trigger a Notify of Forecast from Demand Planning to Demand Forecast Processing asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Forecast operation in a Demand Forecasting Out interface . The Notify of Forecast operation sends the current and deleted forecasts to the Demand Forecast Processing process component .

The Demand Planning process component also includes business objects that may not have external interfaces including the Demand Plan Preparation Run mass data run object the Demand Plan Forecast Run mass data run object the Demand Plan Release Run mass data run object and the Demand Plan Structural Adjustment Run mass data run object .

The Demand Plan Preparation Run mass data run object is a specification for an automated run that prepares a set of demand plans for forecasting. The Demand Plan Forecast Run mass data run object is a specification for an automated run that performs forecasting and planning of material demands in certain supply planning areas based on a set of demand plans. The Demand Plan Release Run mass data run object is a specification for an automated run that releases forecasted quantities of material in a certain supply planning area for a specified horizon to supply chain planning based on a set of demand plans. The Demand Plan Structural Adjustment Run mass data run object is a specification for an automated run that adjusts the time series for selected demand plans in business intelligence according to structural changes that may have been made to them.

The subject matter described in this specification and all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structural means disclosed in this specification and structural equivalents thereof or in combinations of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more computer programs tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program also known as a program software software application or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. a data server a middleware component e.g. an application server or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described herein or any combination of such back end middleware and front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or of what may be claimed but rather as an exemplification of preferred embodiments of the invention. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

The subject matter has been described in terms of particular variations but other variations can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

