---

title: Compact, active alignment fusion splicer with automatic view-angle compensation
abstract: In accordance with various aspects of the present invention, provided is an extremely compact, simple, and cost-effective approach for aligning optical fibers in an optical fiber fusion splicer. The basis of this alignment method is an “S”-Curve Piezo Bending Actuator. The device comprises a thin strip of elastically flexible material (such as spring steel, beryllium copper, or fiber reinforced polymer) that is coated in four areas with a piezoelectric material (such as barium titanate or other known compounds).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07712981&OS=07712981&RS=07712981
owner: 3SAE Technologies, Inc.
number: 07712981
owner_city: Franklin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080414
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from co pending commonly owned U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 911 523 entitled COMPACT ACTIVE ALIGNMENT FUSION SPLICER WITH AUTOMATIC VIEW ANGLE COMPENSATION filed Apr. 13 2007.

The present inventive concepts relate to the field fiber optics and more particularly optical fiber splicers.

Transmission of data via optical fibers serving as optical fiber waveguides is widespread in many applications and industries such as the telecommunications and computer industries. In many applications electrical signals are converted into light pulses and propagated through optical fiber. The lights pulses leaving the optical fiber can then be converted back into electrical signals and processed.

Fiber optics has many advantages in many industries. For example the use of optical fibers can result in significant improvements in bandwidth over more traditional means of communications. Another benefit is that optical fiber connections are far less vulnerable to electromagnetic disruptions and nuclear radiation than other transmission mediums. In fact fiber optics are now widely used in aerospace and shipboard applications for many of these reasons.

In many situations repair of optical fibers is required in the field. Such repair typically requires splicing fibers together using a splicer. Splicing operations in the field can be hampered by the environment and limited length of slack in the fiber that may be accessible for the technician to manipulate into a splicing device. Accordingly there is a need for reliable portable fiber splicers that can be used in the filed so are not overly large or cumbersome.

Optical fiber waveguides in common use share a number of structural features. The waveguide almost invariably comprises a thin elongated fiber core responsible for conducting the light and at least one additional layer. Most often the fiber core is highly pure glass surrounded by a first and intimately bonded layer termed a cladding and an outer layer called a buffer. The cladding usually also glass has an index of refraction lower than that of the core to insure that light is constrained for transmission within the core by total internal reflection. Typically the buffer is composed of plastic or polymer and serves to protect the inner layers mechanically and to prevent attack by moisture or other substances present in the fiber s environment. Commonly a plurality of individual fibers in some cases as many as a thousand are bundled together and enclosed in a protective jacket to form a cable.

Commonly used fibers may further be classified as multimode or single mode. Multimode fibers typically comprise cores having diameters of 50 62.5 m but in some cases up to 100 m. Single mode fibers generally have a much smaller core that may be 9 m or less in diameter. The glass cladding diameter is most commonly 125 m but sometimes is 140 m with a 100 m core . The exterior diameter is largely a function of the buffer coating with 250 m most common although some fiber coatings may be as much as 900 m in diameter. Alignment of fibers is a crucial part of the preparation for any splicing operation but is especially challenging for single mode fibers that have small core diameter. In order to produce a high quality low loss splice the two opposing ends to be joined must be aligned laterally to within a small fraction of the core diameter. Of course the smaller the fiber diameter the smaller the allowed deviation from perfect abutting alignment that may be tolerated.

Most fiber optic data transmission systems transmit information using electromagnetic radiation in the infrared band including wavelengths such as 850 nm for multimode fibers and 1310 and 1550 nm for single mode fibers. The nomenclature light is invariably employed for this radiation even though the cited wavelengths fall outside the range visible to humans.

Mechanical and fusion splicing are the two typical approaches for splicing optical fibers. Mechanical splicing is accomplished by securing the ends of two fibers in intimate proximity with an aligning and holding structure. Often the fibers are inserted into the opposing ends of a precision ferrule capillary tube or comparable alignment structure. The fibers are then secured mechanically by crimping clamping or similar fastening. Mechanical splicing is conceptually simple and minimal apparatus is required to effect splicing but a mechanical splice tends to have relatively high and undesirable insertion loss typically 0.20 dB. In addition mechanical splices are generally weaker than the underlying fiber and are vulnerable to degradation of the optical quality of the splice over time especially under adverse environmental conditions such as varying temperatures and high humidity. Mechanical splices are generally regarded as being temporary expedients at best and are not useful for high bandwidth systems or permanent joints.

Fusion splicing entails the welding of the two fibers by softening and joining the ends of the fibers to each other. Heat is typically used to induce softening using a small electric arc struck between miniature pointed electrodes mounted in opposition and substantially perpendicular to the common axis of the fibers. Upon cooling a strong low loss joint is formed. Fusion splices exhibit very low losses along with high stability and durability. A heat shrinkable tube is typically applied over the completed joint for protection which replaces a buffer coating removed prior to splicing.

For a low insertion loss splice the axes of the fibers must be collinear within about 0.1 degree and aligned laterally within a small fraction of the core diameter to achieve the desired loss of less than about 0.03 dB. This required precision of alignment presents a substantial technical challenge especially with single mode fibers having cores approximately 9 m diameter. Three general approaches have been used. Mechanical fixturing can be used such as the alignment ferrules and other forms of pre aligned V grooves and the like. These purely mechanical approaches do not reliably produce splices that maintain less than 0.10 dB loss.

More sophisticated approaches employ some form of optically assisted fiber positioning. For example profile alignment system PAS is an approach where the splicing apparatus incorporates an optical system that acquires images of the two fibers taken in two lateral directions allowing the fibers to be positioned in two directions orthogonal to the mutual fiber axes. PAS systems can incorporate either manual positioning or computerized image processing to optimize fiber alignment. However the diffraction limit and the resolution of available electro optic cameras restrict the precision achievable with PAS even in systems based on visible light with wavelengths of about 400 700 nm. The effectiveness of PAS in aligning small diameter e.g. single mode fibers is limited.

Still more advanced positioning methods employ measurement of actual light transmission between the fibers being joined where the positioning of the fibers is adaptively adjusted to maximize light transmission prior to the fusion operation. This approach can permit alignment better than that achievable with PAS systems but requires carefully controlled laboratory conditions.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 077 579 to Bush et al. described the use of piezoelectric bimorphs in fusion splicers as a means for aligning fibers to be spliced as shown in herein. Each side is coated with a single connected area providing a continuous curve along the length of the substrate as shown in . If one end is rigidly mounted and voltages are applied to create a linear displacement of the distal end a corresponding angular displacement I produced. If this angular displacement were conveyed to the optical fiber to be aligned the angular displacement would produce unacceptable results. Therefore prior art systems employ bimorph benders in pairs connecting rigid blocks in a parallelogram arrangement as shown in . Blocks and are connected by a pair of piezo bimorphs. Flexible mounting arrangements are provided to accommodate the continuously curved nature of the simple bimorphs. However the need for connecting blocks flexible mountings and paired bimorphs adds to the cost complexity and difficulty of alignment using such prior art devices.

To date the methods and apparatus for carrying out splicing aided either by the PAS transmission based alignment and piezoelectric bimorphs techniques have not been well suited for use outside the laboratory or other similar workplaces. The required equipment lacks the flexibility versatility and ruggedness needed for field use. Moreover present equipment is cumbersome and often not operable in the confined spaces frequently encountered during field service.

In accordance with aspects of the present disclosure provided is an apparatus and a method that enable extremely compact simple and cost effective alignment of optical fibers in an optical fiber fusion splicer. The basis of this alignment method is an S Curve Piezo Bending Actuator. The apparatus comprises a thin strip of elastically flexible material such as spring steel beryllium copper or fiber reinforced polymer that is coated in four areas with a piezoelectric material such as barium titanate or other known compounds .

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention provided is a fiber aligner comprising a thin strip of elastically flexible material and a plurality of piezoelectric material coated areas formed on the thin strip.

The thin strip can include a first side and a second side and at least one of the plurality of piezoelectric material coated areas can be formed on the first side and another of the plurality of piezoelectric material coated areas can be formed on the second side.

The thin strip can include a first side and a second side and the plurality of piezoelectric material coated areas can include first and second piezoelectric material coated areas formed on the first side and third and fourth piezoelectric material coated areas formed on the second side.

The first piezoelectric material coated area can be opposite the third piezoelectric material coated area and the second piezoelectric material coated area can be opposite the fourth piezoelectric material coated area.

The thin strip of elastically flexible material can be formed of a material from a group consisting of spring steel beryllium copper and fiber reinforced polymer.

The piezoelectric material coated areas can be coated with a piezoelectric material taken from a group consisting of barium and titanate.

The thin strip can include a first end configured to attach to a fiber support and a second end configured to attach to a mounting block.

The thin strip of elastically flexible material and the plurality of piezoelectric material coated areas formed on the thin strip can be configured to move a fiber loaded in the fiber support in a first direction.

The thin strip of elastically flexible material and the plurality of piezoelectric material coated areas formed on the thin strip can also be configured to move the fiber loaded in the fiber support in a second direction which is substantially orthogonal to the first direction.

The thin strip of elastically flexible material and the plurality of piezoelectric material coated areas formed on the thin strip can be configured to move a fiber loaded in the fiber support in a rotational direction.

The fiber aligner can further comprise a view angle detector configured to detect an angular misalignment of two optical fibers.

The fiber aligner can further comprise a feedback loop configured to selectively deliver voltages to the a plurality of piezoelectric material coated areas formed on the thin strip to cause a deflection in the thin strip that substantially aligns the two optical fibers.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention provided is a fiber splicing system comprising a fiber support configured to hold at least one fiber a fiber aligner coupled to the fiber support and a splicer configured to splice the at least one optical fiber with another optical fiber. The fiber aligner comprises a thin strip of elastically flexible material and a plurality of piezoelectric material coated areas formed on the thin strip.

The thin strip can include a first side and a second side and at least one of the plurality of piezoelectric material coated areas can be formed on the first side and another of the plurality of piezoelectric material coated areas can be formed on the second side.

The thin strip can include a first side and a second side and the plurality of piezoelectric material coated areas can include first and second piezoelectric material coated areas formed on the first side and third and fourth piezoelectric material coated areas formed on the second side.

The first piezoelectric material coated area can be opposite the third piezoelectric material coated area and the second piezoelectric material coated area can be opposite the fourth piezoelectric material coated area.

The system can further comprise a view angle detector configured to detect an angular misalignment of the at least one optical fiber with the other optical fiber.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are used to distinguish one element from another but not to imply a required sequence of elements. For example a first element can be termed a second element and similarly a second element can be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being on or connected or coupled to another element it can be directly on or connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In accordance with the present invention provided is an extremely compact simple and cost effective approach for aligning optical fibers in an optical fiber fusion splicer. The basis of this alignment method is an S Curve Piezo Bending Actuator as shown in . The device includes a thin strip of elastically flexible material such as spring steel beryllium copper or fiber reinforced polymer that is coated in four areas with a piezoelectric material such as barium titanate or other known compounds . Piezoelectric materials expand or contract as electrical potentials are applied to their surfaces. If therefore opposite electric potentials are applied to areas and the portion of between areas and will be bent into a curve bimorph action . If the potential directions are reversed for areas and the overall shape of the substrate will assume an S shape as shown in . The S actuator is provided with uncoated mounting areas and each provided with mounting holes . Wires or other conductors not shown are arranged to convey the voltages to the surfaces of the coated areas.

Referring back to the present invention has no need of paired actuators parallelogram blocks or flexible mountings. Angular displacements of the two halves of the actuator substantially cancel each other out. Therefore one end may be held rigidly fixed and the other end may be mounted rigidly to the support for the fiber. The two mounting areas will remain parallel through the useful range of motion.

As shown in the illustrative embodiment allows for a very simple and compact approach for providing motion to align an optical fiber. A stationary rigid mounting block is affixed to the mounting area at one end of the S actuator . The distal mounting area is rigidly affixed to a fiber support which is provided with a precision groove to receive the fiber on its upper surface. Various known holding supporting and clamping devices can be used to restrain the fiber so that it properly enters the groove . The fiber support groove is preferably made from a material such as zirconia ceramic which can be ground to very high precision to provide an accurate groove to match the shape of the fiber. The characteristics of these materials and grooved surfaces are well known in the art so not disclosed in detail herein.

As shown in the present invention provides a view of linear and axial displacement with angular offset in accordance with aspects of the present invention. An additional degree of freedom of motion is provided by the illustrative method of unbalancing the curvature applied to the halves of the S bender. This can be accomplished by individually varying the voltages applied to the opposing piezoelectric pairs. If for example areas and were supplied with 40V 35V 40V and 35V respectively the length of the substrate bounded by areas and would be more curved than the length bounded by and . An angular displacement of the distal end would result mounting areas and would no longer be parallel. This would be undesirable if all other alignments were perfect. However it is common for mechanical misalignments to occur elsewhere particularly at the interface of the fiber and the groove . These misalignments can be caused by irregularities in the fiber surface or by the presence of dirt particles. These misalignments produce an angular misalignment of the two fibers to be spliced referred to as a view angle . With the present invention the splicer s computer system can optically detect the view angle and then correct it by the appropriate inputs to the S actuator such as the splicer shown in . Most modern splicers are already capable of detecting the angular misalignment before splicing but they do not have any capability of correcting at as prior art actuators provide linear motion only. This approach for providing angular displacement can also be used in conjunction with the splicer s optics to provide closed loop control of angular position to zero out any angular bias in the actuator caused by manufacturing tolerances of the piezo parts.

It should be recognized that the illustrative embodiment displaces the fiber support platforms in the Z axis as a side effect of its action to align the X and or Y axes. If known arrangements of the Z axis alignment are used wherein the fiber support platforms allow the fiber to translate freely in the Z axis this will produce no undesirable result for the alignment. In these systems Z axis motion is performed by moving the fiber axially from a point distal to the fiber support platforms such as a detachable fiber holder receptacle coupled to an actuator.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other preferred embodiments it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the invention or inventions may be implemented in various forms and embodiments and that they may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein.

