---

title: Methods for integrating and managing one or more features in an application and systems thereof
abstract: A method, computer readable medium, and system for integrating and managing one or more features in an application includes obtaining data from at least one application provider system with at least one application and from one or more feature provider systems with one or more features. The obtained data is used to implement a programming interface between the syndication system and the application and the one or more features which can be integrated in the application. A selection of one or more of the features for integration in the application is received. The implementation of the programming interface between a syndication system and the application and the one or more selected features to be integrated in the application is generated. The generated implementation of the programming interface is provided to the application provider system with the application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09489177&OS=09489177&RS=09489177
owner: Adventive, Inc.
number: 09489177
owner_city: Rochester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080225
---
This invention relates to methods for integrating and managing one or more features in a Web based or client server software application and systems thereof.

For the last forty years the software market has been built on a payment model involving large upfront fees for perpetual licenses and ongoing support fees. Companies had to purchase their own servers to run the client server software and hire full time staff to maintain the software. Consumer software had expensive licensing fees and was infrequently updated. All of this put most software out of reach for the average small business and consumer. Today client server software still requires businesses to hire an internal IT person or a value added reseller. These costs still put most technology out of the reach of most small and mid sized businesses. Today s desktop software is still expensive and only periodically updated.

In the mid 1990s with the introduction of the World Wide Web it was realized the World Wide Web could become an extremely cost effective and efficient delivery platform for software applications. Companies began developing applications that were built to be delivered over relatively slow Internet connections versus local area networks. These applications also were developed to support multi tenancy which meant thousands or millions of customers could share the same platform bringing tremendous efficiencies of scale. Further these applications took advantage of the Web s inherent collaborative properties to let millions of people worldwide communicate as if they were on the same network. Applications such as email and instant messaging are great examples that leveraged this capability. Additionally consumer applications such as social networking services were created to offer consumers new applications over the Web. This market is called Software as a Service SaaS and the applications are delivered for rent or free. Most of the applications are offered for free and thus the challenge for developers of Web based applications is how to generate revenue.

Consumers and small business customers largely have expected the Internet to be free and as a result have shown a huge resistance towards paying for content with limited exceptions. Additionally they have shown a resistance towards paying for Web based applications such as email and instant messaging. As a result today thousands of Web based applications offer primarily free services to consumers.

Instead consumers and small businesses have been willing to accept viewing of advertising and sharing personal information with these free applications and content. Accordingly in the SaaS market many companies have been trying to monetize their software applications with advertising revenue from third party advertisers.

Currently there are two primary methods for Internet advertising within an application that together represents more than eighty percent of online advertising Cost Per Thousand Impressions CPM banner and display advertisements and Cost Per Click CPC text and contextual ads. Both of these methods have significant limitations and downsides including interfering with the user experience by taking up valuable screen real estate to place the advertising and invading the privacy of a user by scanning personal data as a means to understand relevance and then display ads. Additionally neither of these methods works well in Web based applications and they are viewed as detracting from the application by the user. Further none of these prior methods alone maximize the potential for revenue generation.

Another emerging option is to integrate third party partners into an application sell consumers the premium product or service from the integrated third party partner and then generate revenue on a Cost Per Action CPA model. To achieve this developers must manually and individually integrate each third party Web based application Web service and online merchant into the application which is a difficult process. In particular this integration process requires developing and integrating a reporting layer a billing layer a user interface framework and other infrastructure necessary to support each third party partner into the application. Most third party partners have limited or no Application Programming Interfaces APIs making integration even more complicated.

It is equally difficult for application Web service and online merchant providers that wish to utilize third party Web based software applications as a distribution channel. They face significant challenges to achieve a wide syndication of their offerings. Typically they have limited technological sophistication and lack the robust API s needed to simplify integration. Further they are forced to individually integrate with each Web based application spending a large amount of technical and financial resources to achieve distribution.

Prior APIs have lacked the ability to easily and properly integrate a third party Web based feature into an application and have only been able to handle programmatic functions. Additionally these prior APIs have been completely unaware of workflow which is critical to being able to integrate a feature into the right step s of a process of a user performing a given task in an application. Further they have lacked any definition of the user interface. As a result a provider of a feature has had little to no control over how a feature is integrated or how it looks to the user in an application.

This inability to easily and properly integrate a feature presents several major problems. For example these integration difficulties often result in a poor workflow and a poor user interface which decreases usage and revenue generation with the feature. Additionally these integration difficulties which cause the workflow and user interface issues often seriously damage the brand associated with the provided feature because of the poor resulting performance.

A method for integrating and managing one or more features in an application in accordance with embodiments of the present invention includes obtaining data from at least one application provider system with at least one application and from one or more feature provider systems with one or more features. The obtained data is used to implement a programming interface between the syndication system and the application and the one or more features which can be integrated in the application. A selection of one or more of the features for integration in the application is received. The implementation of the programming interface between a syndication system and the application and the one or more selected features to be integrated in the application is generated. The generated implementation of the programming interface is provided to the application provider system with the application.

A computer readable medium in accordance with other embodiments of the present invention has stored thereon instructions for integrating and managing one or more features in an application comprising machine executable code which when executed by at least one processor causes the processor to perform steps which includes obtaining data from at least one application provider system with at least one application and from one or more feature provider systems with one or more features. The obtained data is used to implement a programming interface between the syndication system and the application and the one or more features which can be integrated in the application. A selection of one or more of the features for integration in the application is received. The implementation of the programming interface between a syndication system and the application and the one or more selected features to be integrated in the application is generated. The generated implementation of the programming interface is provided to the application provider system with the application.

A system for integrating and managing one or more features in an application in accordance with other embodiments of the present invention includes a syndication system with a registration system and an integration system. The registration system obtains data from at least one application provider system with at least one application and from one or more feature provider systems with one or more features. The obtained data is used to implement a programming interface between the syndication system and the application and the one or more features which can be integrated in the application. The registration system receives a selection of one or more of the features for integration in the application. The integration system generates the implementation of the programming interface between the syndication system and the application and the one or more selected features to be integrated in the application. The integration system provides the generated implementation of the programming interface to the application provider system with the application.

The present invention provides a number of advantages including providing an effective and automated method for integrating and managing one or more features in a Web based or desktop software application. The present invention dramatically reduces the amount of time required to integrate these features into an application. Additionally the present invention uses a single reporting layer so all features can easily be presented in a single reporting interface. Further the present invention utilizes a single billing layer so that all features can easily be billed to the user in a consistent fashion and integrated into any third party billing system. Even further the present invention utilizes a consistent user interface to provide the user with the highest quality experience.

The present invention also provides systems and methods that combine the programmatic elements of an API with a workflow designer system and a user interface designer system into a single solution. This present invention enables providers of Web based features to offer their services to any application developer while controlling the quality of the integration and maximizing revenue.

A system that integrates and manages one or more features in a Web based or client server software application in accordance with embodiments of the present invention is illustrated in . The system includes user computing systems a syndication provider system application provider systems feature provider systems and a communications network although the system can include other numbers and types of systems devices equipment parts components and or elements in other configurations. The present invention provides a number of advantages including providing an effective and automated method and system for integrating and managing one or more features in a Web based or client server software application.

Referring more specifically to each of the user computing systems enables a user to access content and or utilize one or more applications from one or more of the application provider systems although one or more of the user computing systems could access content and or utilize other types and numbers of applications from other sources and could provide a wide variety of other functions for the user. Additionally each of the user computing systems enables a user to access one or more features from one or more of the feature provider systems which are activated the application in response to one or more actions although one or more of the user computing systems could access other types and numbers of features. Although multiple user computing systems are shown the system can have other numbers and types of user computing systems.

Each of the user computing systems includes a central processing unit CPU or processor a memory user input device a display and an interface system and which are coupled together by a bus or other link although one or more of the user computing systems can include other numbers and types of components parts devices systems and elements in other configurations. The processor in each of the user computing systems executes a program of stored instructions for one or more aspects of the present invention as described and illustrated herein although the processor could execute other numbers and types of programmed instructions.

The memory in each of the user computing systems stores these programmed instructions for one or more aspects of the present invention as described and illustrated herein although some or all of the programmed instructions could be stored and or executed elsewhere. A variety of different types of memory storage devices such as a random access memory RAM or a read only memory ROM in the system or a floppy disk hard disk CD ROM or other computer readable medium which is read from and or written to by a magnetic optical or other reading and or writing system that is coupled to one or more processors can be used for the memory in each of the user computing systems .

The user input device in each of the user computing systems is used to input selections such as requests for an application or requests for content or services through transactions with one or more features which are integrated into the application although the user input device could be used to input other types of data and interact with other elements. The user input device can include a computer keyboard and a computer mouse although other types and numbers of user input devices can be used. The display in each of the user computing systems is used to show data and information to the user such as travel bookings advertisements news articles by way of example only. The display can include a computer display screen such as a CRT or LCD screen although other types and numbers of displays could be used.

The interface system in each of the user computing systems is used to operatively couple and communicate between the user computing systems and the syndication provider system the application provider systems and the feature provider systems via the communications network although other types and numbers of communication networks or systems with other types and numbers of connections and configurations can be used. By way of example only the communication network can use TCP IP over Ethernet and industry standard protocols including SOAP XML LDAP and SNMP although other types and numbers of communication networks such as a direct connection a local area network a wide area network modems and phone lines e mail and wireless communication technology each having their own communications protocols can be used.

The syndication provider system provides a user interface framework which allows it to manage interactions between one or more of the user computing systems and one or more features provided by feature providers systems integrated into one or more applications provided by the application provider systems . The syndication provider system also provides administration tools to track and manage reporting and revenue generation based on those interactions although the syndication provider system can provide other numbers and types of functions. Although one syndication provider system is shown the system can have other numbers and types of syndication provider systems.

The syndication provider system includes a central processing unit CPU or processor a memory and an interface system which are coupled together by a bus or other link although other numbers and types of components parts devices systems and elements in other configurations and locations can be used. The processor in the syndication provider system executes a program of stored instructions one or more aspects of the present invention as described and illustrated by way of the embodiments herein although the processor could execute other numbers and types of programmed instructions.

The memory in the syndication provider system stores these programmed instructions for one or more aspects of the present invention as described and illustrated herein although some or all of the programmed instructions could be stored and or executed elsewhere. A variety of different types of memory storage devices such as a random access memory RAM or a read only memory ROM in the system or a floppy disk hard disk CD ROM DVD ROM or other computer readable medium which is read from and or written to by a magnetic optical or other reading and or writing system that is coupled to the processor can be used for the memory in the syndication provider system .

The interface system in the syndication provider system is used to operatively couple and communicate between the syndication provider system and the user computing systems the application provider systems and the feature provider systems via the communications network although other types and numbers of communication networks or systems with other types and numbers of connections and configurations can be used.

Each of the application provider systems provides one or more software applications for use by one or more of the user computing systems although one or more of the application provider systems can provide other numbers and types of applications and or content and can have provide other numbers and types of functions. Although multiple application provider systems are shown the system can have other numbers and types of application provider systems.

Each of the application provider systems includes a central processing unit CPU or processor a memory interface system application server and database which are coupled together by a bus or other link although each of the application provider systems could have other numbers and types of components parts devices systems and elements in other configurations and locations can be used. The processor in each of the application provider systems executes a program of stored instructions one or more aspects of the present invention as described and illustrated by way of the embodiments herein including managing application functionality although the processor could execute other numbers and types of programmed instructions.

The memory in each of the application provider systems stores these programmed instructions for one or more aspects of the present invention as described and illustrated by way of the embodiments herein including managing application functionality although some or all of the programmed instructions could be stored and or executed elsewhere. A variety of different types of memory storage devices such as a random access memory RAM or a read only memory ROM in the system or a floppy disk hard disk CD ROM DVD ROM or other computer readable medium which is read from and or written to by a magnetic optical or other reading and or writing system that is coupled to the processor can be used for the memory in each of the application provider systems .

The interface system in each of the application provider systems is used to operatively couple and communicate between the application provider systems and the user computing systems the syndication provider system and the feature provider systems n via communications network although other types and numbers of communication networks or systems with other types and numbers of connections and configurations can be used.

The application server in each of the application provider systems runs one or more software applications that can be shared by one or more of the user computing systems and also shares the data processing burden with one or more of the user computing systems although other numbers and types of servers can be used and other functionality can be carried out. The database in each of the application provider systems stores content user settings and one or more applications although other types and numbers of data storage devices can be used and other types and amounts of information can be stored on the database.

The feature provider systems provide one or more features such as flower ordering gift ordering mapping and driving directions yellow pages travel ordering event ticket ordering weather information faxing email marketing web conferencing and package delivery by way of example only for integration into one or more applications provided by the application provider systems although each of the feature provider systems could provide other numbers and types of features and functions for integration. Although multiple feature provider systems are shown the system can have other numbers and types of feature provider systems

Each of the feature provider systems includes a central processing unit CPU or processor a memory an interface system an application server and a database which are coupled together by a bus or other link although other numbers and types of components parts devices systems and elements in other configurations and locations could be used. The processor in each of the feature provider systems executes a program of stored instructions for one or more aspects of the present invention as described and illustrated by way of the embodiments herein including managing feature functionality although the processor could execute other numbers and types of programmed instructions. The memory in each of the feature provider systems stores these programmed instructions for one or more aspects of the present invention as described and illustrated by way of the embodiments herein although some or all of the programmed instructions could be stored and or executed elsewhere. A variety of different types of memory storage devices such as a random access memory RAM or a read only memory ROM in the system or a floppy disk hard disk CD ROM DVD ROM or other computer readable medium which is read from and or written to by a magnetic optical or other reading and or writing system that is coupled to the processor can be used for the memory in each of the feature provider systems .

The interface system in each of the feature provider systems is used to operatively couple and communicate between the feature provider systems and the syndication provider system the application provider systems and the user computing systems via communications network although other types and numbers of communication networks or systems with other types and numbers of connections and configurations can be used.

The application server in each of the feature provider systems runs one or more applications related to the one or more features which are integrated into the application although other numbers and types of servers can be used and other numbers and types of functions can be provided. The database in each of the feature provider systems stores data related to the one or more features although other types and numbers of data storage devices can be used and other types and amounts of information can be stored on the database server.

Although embodiments of the user computing systems the syndication provider system the application provider systems and the feature provider systems are described and illustrated herein each of the user computing systems the syndication provider system application provider systems and the feature provider systems can be implemented on any suitable computer system or computing device. It is to be understood that the devices and systems of the embodiments described herein are for exemplary purposes as many variations of the specific hardware and software used to implement the embodiments are possible as will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s .

Furthermore each of the systems of the embodiments may be conveniently implemented using one or more general purpose computer systems microprocessors digital signal processors and micro controllers programmed according to the teachings of the embodiments as described and illustrated herein and as will be appreciated by those ordinary skill in the art.

In addition two or more computing systems or devices can be substituted for any one of the systems in any embodiment of the embodiments. Accordingly principles and advantages of distributed processing such as redundancy and replication also can be implemented as desired to increase the robustness and performance of the devices and systems of the embodiments. The embodiments may also be implemented on computer system or systems that extend across any suitable network using any suitable interface mechanisms and communications technologies including by way of example only telecommunications in any suitable form e.g. voice and modem wireless communications media wireless communications networks cellular communications networks G3 communications networks Public Switched Telephone Network PSTNs Packet Data Networks PDNs the Internet intranets and combinations thereof.

The embodiments may also be embodied as a computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon for one or more aspects of the present invention as described and illustrated by way of the embodiments herein as described herein which when executed by a processor cause the processor to carry out the steps necessary to implement the methods of the embodiments as described and illustrated herein.

By way of example only a functional block diagram of a system is illustrated in . The system is the same as the system as described and illustrated herein and is included for exemplary purposes only. For ease of illustration the user computing systems are not shown in this functional diagram.

The system includes the syndication provider system the application provider systems and feature provider systems although other numbers and types of applications and features could be listed. In this example the application provider systems provide applications for Email Customer Relationship Management CRM Social Networks Search and Accounting respectively and the feature provider systems provide features for the following services Travel Booking Send a Fax Email Marketing and Movie Concert Tickets respectively although other numbers and types of applications and features could be listed.

The syndication provider system includes an application provider API a billing system a reporting system a user interface design system an application programming interface system a workflow design system and a feature provider API . The application provider API provides the application interfaces between the syndication provider system and the application provider system although other numbers and types of interfaces can be provided. The feature provider API provides the application interfaces between the syndication provider system and the feature provider systems although other numbers and types of interface can be provided.

The billing system enables the syndication provider system to monitor and manage the billing and any associated collections for transactions involving any of the feature provider systems although other numbers and types of billing and monetization functions can be carried out. The reporting system enables the syndication provider system to monitor and manage all of the transactions with the features provided by the feature provider systems which are utilized in the applications provided by the application provider systems although other numbers and types of reporting and monitoring functions can be carried out.

The user interface design system the application programming interface system and the workflow design system in the syndication provider system each assist with the proper integration of any of the features from the feature provider systems into any of the applications from the application provider system although other types and numbers of systems to assist with integration may be used. In particular the user interface design system assists during the integration of a feature provided by one of the feature provider systems by providing a definition of the user interface and providing control over how a feature is integrated and looks to the user in an application provided by one of the application provider systems although other numbers and types of functions could be provided.

The user interface design system lets each of the feature provider systems which are being integrated into the application create and define each screen of the user interface. The feature provider systems uses an XML template that defines each image to be included on an interface screen the size of each image and the location of each image although other types of technologies could be used and other relevant attributes of the images could be used. Additionally the XML template defines the Cascading Style Sheets CSS or other similar layout technologies. Further the XML template defines all of the buttons tabs check boxes list boxes and other interface elements and the location of each interface element. The XML template also defines the list of functions that can be used for a given screen. The XML template may also include other interface related features. The user interface design system also includes a master list of all user interface screens for a given feature.

The application programming interface system assists with the connection of the application programming interfaces between the syndication provider system and the feature provider systems although other numbers and types of functions could be provided. The application programming interface system defines all of the programmatic functions available in the given feature. In this example the implementation is an XML based API although other types of API s may be used. An XML template list all available functions for a given feature an explanation of what each function does the format needed for the communication and the expected response. Functions in the XML template may be required optional or not available for a given user interface screen.

The workflow design system assists during the integration of a feature provided by one of the feature provider systems by providing information on workflow so the feature can be integrated into the right step of a process of a user performing a given task in an application provided by one of the application provider systems . The workflow design system lets each of the feature provider systems which are being integrated into the application define a list of all the different workflow scenarios available for a given feature. Each feature may have one or more workflow scenarios so that it can fit in several different places within a given application and can fit in multiple applications. For each workflow an XML template is defined although other technologies could be used that defines the order of one or more screens developed in the interface designer for the given workflow.

The operation of the system to initially integrate and manage one or more features in a Web based or client server software application in accordance with embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to . In step one of the application provider systems submits a request to the syndication provider system to integrate one or more features from one or more of the feature provider systems into one or more applications run on the requesting one of the application provider systems although other numbers of requests and other manners for integrating the one or more features into one or more applications can be used.

In step the syndication provider system requests and collects data from the requesting one of the application provider systems and the one or more of the feature provider systems which provided the one or more features. The collected data relates to the type of application and one or more features along with connectivity information to the application and one or more features and other background information on the requesting one of the application provider systems and the one or more of the feature provider systems although other types and amounts of data could be collected or obtained in other manners. By way of example only the data collected here is information on the type of application the application provider system is e.g. an email application a CRM application a social network application a search application or an accounting application financial details information about the number of users and the branding of the application although other types and amounts of data can be collected. With this data the feature provider systems will each only want their feature integrated into applications provided by the application provider systems that match their user profile and brand profile. For example a credit card feature provider may not want to be integrated into a gambling application. This data gives the one of the feature provider systems the ability to control who uses their feature

In step the syndication provider system determines whether to approve the requesting one of the application provider systems and each of the one or more of the feature provider systems providing the one or more features based on the collected data and one or more stored criteria although other manners for determining which application provider systems and feature provider systems can be used. A variety of different criteria can be used for the determination such as stored data on which application provider systems and the feature provider systems are acceptable. If the requesting one of the application provider systems and each of the one or more of the feature provider systems are not approved then the No branch is taken to step where this process ends. If the requesting one of the application provider systems and each of the one or more of the feature provider systems are approved then the Yes branch is taken to step .

In step the syndication provider system provides the requesting one of the application provider systems an initial list of one or more features from one or more of the feature provider systems which can be integrated although other manners for obtaining a selection of features can be used. The particular number and type of features provided in each list to one or more of the application provider systems can vary. By way of example only stored tables can be used to determine which one or more features to offer to each of the application provider systems based on one or more factors such as the particular type of application and users of each application.

In step the requesting one of the application provider systems can select from the list one or more of the features from one or more of the feature provider systems . If none of the features are selected by the requesting one of the application provider systems then the No branch is taken to step where this process ends. If one or more of the features are selected then the requesting one of the application provider systems transmits the selection of the one or more features to the syndication provider system and the Yes branch is taken to step .

In step the syndication provider system generates an implementation of an interface for the application in the requesting one of the application provider systems based on the collected data for the requesting one of the application provider systems and the one or more feature provider systems with the selected features although other manners for generating the interface can be used. The implementation of the interface is an API or SDK which includes code images work flow and a unique identifier that identifies the requesting one of the application provider systems so the syndication provider system can track transactions for reporting and billing purposes although other types and numbers of implementations can be generated. The syndication provider system provides the generated implementation to the requesting one of the application provider systems .

In step the syndication provider system registers the unique identifier associated with the application in the requesting one of the application provider systems and the selected one or more features from one or more feature provider systems in the reporting database and monetization database to track transactions and determine revenue sharing based on each transaction. The syndication provider system may also store other data such as user credit card data and other billing and accounting information in a user database.

In step the requesting one of the application provider systems performs the integration of the interface between the syndication provider system and the requesting one of the application provider systems along with the one or more feature provider systems with the one or more selected features.

In step a test transaction of the interface is conducted by the syndication provider system and the requesting one of the application provider systems along with the one or more feature provider systems with the one or more selected features although other numbers and types of manners for testing the integrated interface can be used. If the test transaction is not successful then the No branch is taken to step where this process ends. If the test transaction is successful then the Yes branch is taken to step .

In step the syndication provider system releases the interface at the requesting one of the application provider systems for actual transactions. In step this process ends and the application with the one or more features is ready for use.

The operation of the system to subsequently integrate one or more additional and or previously unselected features in a Web based or client server software application in accordance with embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to . In step one or more of the feature provider systems submits a request to the syndication provider system to offer one or more additional features for integration into one or more applications run on the requesting one of the application provider systems although other numbers and manners of requests can be used.

In step the syndication provider system requests and collects data from the requesting one or more of the feature provider systems which provided the one or more additional features. The collected data relates to the type of one or more additional features along with connectivity information to the one or more features and other background information on the one or more of the feature provider systems although other types and amounts of data could be collected or obtained in other manners.

In step the syndication provider system determines whether to approve each of the one or more of the feature provider systems providing the one or more additional features based on the collected data and one or more stored criteria although other manners for determining which application provider systems and feature provider systems can be used. A variety of different criteria can be used for the determination such as stored data on which of the feature provider systems are acceptable. If the requesting one or more of the feature provider systems are not approved then the No branch is taken to step where this process ends. If the requesting one or more of the feature provider systems are approved then the Yes branch is taken to step .

In step the syndication provider system provides the requesting one of the feature provider systems a list of one or more additional and or previously unselected features from one or more of the feature provider systems which can be integrated although other manners for obtaining a selection of additional and or previously unselected features can be used. The particular number and type of additional and or previously unselected features provided to one or more of the application provider systems can vary. By way of example only stored tables can be used to determine which one or more additional and or previously unselected features to offer to each of the application provider systems based on one or more factors such as the particular type of application and users of each application.

In step the requesting one of the application provider systems can select from the list one or more of the additional and or previously unselected features from one or more of the feature provider systems . If none of the additional and or previously unselected features are selected by the requesting one of the application provider systems then the No branch is taken to step where this process ends. If one or more of the additional and or previously unselected features are selected then the requesting one of the application provider systems transmits the selection of the one or more additional and or previously unselected features to the syndication provider system and the Yes branch is taken to step .

In step the syndication provider system generates a revised implementation of the interface for the application in the requesting one of the application provider systems based on the collected data for the one or more feature provider systems with the selected additional and or previously unselected features although other manners for generating the revised interface can be used. The revised implementation of the interface is a revised API or SDK which includes code images work flow and a unique identifier that identifies the requesting one of the application provider systems so the syndication provider system can track transactions for reporting and billing purposes although other types and numbers of implementations can be generated. The syndication provider system provides the revised implementation to the requesting one of the application provider systems .

In step the syndication provider system registers the unique identifier associated with the requesting one of the application provider systems with the selected one or more additional and or previously unselected features from one or more feature provider systems in the reporting database and monetization database to track transactions and determine revenue sharing based on each transaction.

In step the requesting one of the application provider systems performs the integration of the revised interface between the syndication provider system and the one or more feature provider systems with the one or more selected additional and or previously unselected features.

In step a test transaction of the interface is conducted by the syndication provider system and the requesting one of the application provider systems along with the one or more feature provider systems with the one or more selected additional and or previously unselected features although other numbers and types of manners for testing the integrated interface can be used. If the test transaction is not successful then the No branch is taken to step where this process ends. If the test transaction is successful then the Yes branch is taken to step .

In step the syndication provider system releases the revised interface at the requesting one of the application provider systems for actual transactions. In step this process ends and the application with the one or more features is ready for use.

The operation of the system to manage the use of one or more features in a Web based or client server software application in accordance with other embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to . In step a user at one of the user computing systems initiates a request for an application from one of the application provider systems . In response to the request the requested application is executed and displayed at the one of the user computing systems with the user.

In step the one of the application provider systems with the application that is being executed monitors for one or more actions such as scheduling an appointment that contains the word hotel or flight or receiving a request to fax or print and overnight ship an item by way of example only. If one or more of the actions being monitored is not detected then the No branch is taken to Step . In step the one of the application provider systems with the application that is being executed determines if the application being executed has ended. If the application has not ended then the No branch is taken back to step . If the application has ended in step then the Yes branch is taken to step where this process ends. If one or more of the actions being monitored is detected then the one or more features associated with those one or more detected actions are activated and displayed in the application on the one of the user computing systems with the application executing and the Yes branch is taken to Step .

In step the user at the one of the user computing systems can initiate and have displayed any feature in the application. If the one of the application provider systems with the application that is being executed does not have a feature that has been initiated and displayed then the No branch is taken to step as described earlier. If the one of the application provider systems with the application that is being executed does have a feature that has been initiated and displayed then the Yes branch is taken to step .

In step the user at the one of the user computing systems can initiate a transaction with the initiated and displayed feature. If a transaction is not initiated then the No branch is taken to step as described earlier. If a transaction is initiated then the Yes branch is taken to step .

In step the syndication provider system checks the user database for stored information on the user at the one of the user computing systems that initiated the transaction to determine if additional data is needed. If data is not needed then the No branch is taken to step . If data is needed then the Yes branch is taken to step . In step the syndication provider system requests the needed data from the user at the one of the user computing systems that initiated the transaction. In steps and the syndication provider system completes and records the transaction in the reporting database and then stores any newly acquired data in the user database.

In step the syndication provider system determines how to share any revenue resulting from the completion of the transaction with the one of the feature provider systems that provided the feature and with the one of the application provider systems that provided the application with the integrated feature. By way of example only the revenue could be from the completed transaction or could be a payment from a feature provider resulting from directing traffic to and use of a non monetary feature. A variety of criteria can be established for determining how to divide the revenue from the transaction such as fixed percentages to each involved entity. In step this process ends.

Accordingly the present invention provides an effective and automated method and system for integrating one or more features into a Web based or client server software application. With the present invention a variety of features including by way of example only flower ordering gift ordering mapping and driving directions yellow pages travel ordering event ticket ordering weather information faxing email marketing web conferencing and package delivery can be seamlessly integrated into an application. The present invention is versatile and enables features to be integrated into a wide range of applications including but not limited to calendars contacts task management instant messaging Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP file storage file sharing email web conferencing sales force automation and CRM.

Having thus described the basic concept of the invention it will be rather apparent to those skilled in the art that the foregoing detailed disclosure is intended to be presented by way of example only and is not limiting. Various alterations improvements and modifications will occur and are intended to those skilled in the art though not expressly stated herein. These alterations improvements and modifications are intended to be suggested hereby and are within the spirit and scope of the invention. Additionally the recited order of processing elements or sequences or the use of numbers letters or other designations therefore is not intended to limit the claimed processes to any order except as may be specified in the claims. Accordingly the invention is limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereto.

