---

title: Notification adjustment for computing devices
abstract: A system and a method are disclosed for adjusting a notification mechanism within a computing device. In one embodiment, the method includes receiving a global positioning system signal corresponding to latitude and longitude positional values, calculating a current location of the computing device in response to the received global positioning system signal, determining whether the calculated current location is associated with a configuration identifying adjustment, and adjusting a notification setting on the device accordingly. In another embodiment, the system includes identifying a particular time, determining whether a notification setting to the device is needed, and if so, adjusting the notification setting for the device accordingly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08886211&OS=08886211&RS=08886211
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08886211
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080527
---
In certain physical locations such as churches schools doctor offices movie theaters and the like it is inappropriate for a mobile device e.g. a mobile phone to play a ring tone or other audible alert. Most devices currently offer an option for vibrate or silent mode as an audible alert. However the problem with these options is that they must be manually set. In many instances users forget to set these non audible options. In some instances users are unwilling to set the non audible options. In yet other instances users simply do not know how to set the non audible options. In each instance however when the audible ring or tone sounds it causes an immediate distraction leading to issues that include lost productivity inattention or disturbance relative to the activity underway.

To address this issue some physical facilities install jamming systems that block all wireless connectivity to devices such as phones that attempt to operate within the facility. However this approach may be impractical for a mobile device user. For example if a user is in a movie theater the user may want to receive a call from a doctor or babysitter where a jamming system is operational the user would be unable to receive such call. Further the jamming approach may be overbearing on the user. For example some types of communication to the device may not have an impact the same way as telephone calls i.e. no disruptive conversations. For example short message service SMS text messages sent to the mobile device.

Hence there is lacking inter alia a mechanism for automated adjustment of audible alerts based on location of the device.

One embodiment of a disclosed system and method is configured to adjust notification settings within a computing device. The system receives a global positioning system signal corresponding to latitude and longitude positional values. The system identifies a current location of the computing device in response to the received global positioning system signal and determines whether the calculated current location is associated with a notification adjustment event. The system adjusts a notification setting on the computing device in response to the association of the current location with the notification adjustment event.

Another embodiment of the disclosed system and method includes identifying a particular time with or without location information to determine whether a notification setting adjustment is needed. If so the system is configured to automatically adjust the notification setting for the device accordingly.

In such instances the disclosed configurations provide an automated system for adjusting notifications within a computing device without requiring user intervention. Such systems provide benefits of inter alia increased productivity and efficient device management while continuing to retain the full functional aspects of the application operating within the mobile computing device.

The features and advantages described in the specification are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter.

The Figures FIGS. and the following description relate to preferred embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of the claimed invention.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

Figure FIG. illustrates one embodiment of a mobile computing device with telephonic functionality e.g. a mobile phone or a smartphone. The mobile computing device is configured to host and execute a phone application for placing and receiving telephone calls. It is noted that for ease of understanding the principles disclosed herein are in an example context of a mobile computing device with telephonic functionality operating in a mobile telecommunications network. However the principles disclosed herein may be applied in other duplex or multiplex telephonic contexts such as devices with telephonic functionality configured to directly interface with public switched telephone networks PSTN or data networks having voice over internet protocol VOIP functionality.

The mobile computing device is configured to be of a form factor that is convenient to hold in a user s hand for example a personal digital assistant PDA or a smart phone form factor. For example the mobile computing device can have dimensions ranging from 5 to 15 centimeters in length 5 to 15 centimeters in width 0.5 to 2.5 centimeters in height and weigh between 50 and 250 grams.

The mobile computing device includes a speaker a screen a navigation area a keypad area and a microphone . The mobile computing device also may include one or more switches generally . The one or more switches may be buttons sliders or rocker switches and can be mechanical or solid state e.g. touch sensitive solid state switch .

The screen of the mobile computing device is for example a 240 240 a 320 320 or a 320 480 transflective display. In alternative embodiments the aspect ratios and resolution may be different without departing from the principles of the inventive features disclosed within the description. By way of example embodiments of the screen comprises an active matrix liquid crystal display AMLCD a thin film transistor liquid crystal display TFT LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED an interferometric modulator display IMOD a liquid crystal display LCD or other suitable display device. In an embodiment the display displays color images. In another embodiment the screen further comprises a touch sensitive display e.g. pressure sensitive resistive electrically sensitive capacitative acoustically sensitive SAW or surface acoustic wave photo sensitive infra red including a digitizer for receiving input data commands or information from a user. The user may use a stylus a finger or another suitable input device for data entry such as selecting from a menu or entering text data.

The navigation area is configured to control functions of an application executing in the mobile computing device and visible through the screen . For example the navigation area includes an x way x is a numerical integer e.g. 5 navigation ring that provides cursor control selection and similar functionality. In addition the navigation area may include selection buttons to select functions viewed just above the buttons on the screen . In addition the navigation area also may include dedicated function buttons for functions such as for example a calendar a web browser an e mail client or a home screen. In this example the navigation ring may be implemented through mechanical solid state switches dials or a combination thereof. The keypad area may be a numeric keypad e.g. a dialpad or a numeric keypad integrated with an alpha or alphanumeric keypad or character keypad e.g. a keyboard with consecutive keys of Q W E R T Y A Z E R T Y or other equivalent set of keys on a keyboard such as a DVORAK keyboard or a double byte character keyboard .

Although not illustrated it is noted that the mobile computing device also may include an expansion slot. The expansion slot is configured to receive and support expansion cards or media cards which may include memory cards such as CompactFlash cards SD cards XD cards Memory Sticks MultiMediaCard SDIO and the like.

Referring next to a block diagram illustrates one embodiment of an architecture of a mobile computing device with telephonic functionality. By way of example the architecture illustrated in will be described with respect to the mobile computing device of . The mobile computing device includes a central processor a power supply and a radio subsystem . The central processor communicates with audio system camera flash memory RAM memory short range radio module e.g. Bluetooth Wireless Fidelity WiFi component a window manager module a screen manager module a global positioning management system module and a notification management system module . The power supply powers the central processor the radio subsystem module and output device drivers for example a display driver which may be contact or inductive sensitive and or an audio driver which may include volume control in addition to speaker output . The power supply may correspond to a battery pack e.g. rechargeable or a powerline connection or component.

In one embodiment the window manager module or window manager comprises a software or firmware process that initializes a virtual display space stored in the RAM and or the flash memory . The virtual display space includes one or more applications currently being executed by a user and the current status of the executed applications. The window manager receives requests from user input or from software or firmware processes to show a window and determines the initial position of the requested window. Additionally the window manager receives commands or instructions to modify a window such as resizing the window moving the window or any other command altering the appearance or position of the window and modifies the window accordingly.

The screen manager module or screen manager comprises a software or firmware process that manages content displayed on the screen . In one embodiment the screen manager monitors and controls the physical location of data displayed on the screen and which data is displayed on the screen . The screen manager alters or updates the location of data on the screen responsive to input from the central processor to modify the screen appearance. In one embodiment the screen manager also monitors and controls screen brightness. Further it transmits control signals to the central processor to modify screen brightness and power usage to the screen . It is noted that applications for example as described in below can be configured to present user interfaces to a user by having those applications interface with the window manager and screen manager to ultimately have the output driver display the user interface on the screen of the mobile computing device .

The radio subsystem module or radio subsystem includes a radio processor a radio memory and a transceiver . The transceiver may be two separate components for transmitting and receiving signals or a single component for both transmitting and receiving signals. In either instance it is referenced as a transceiver . The receiver portion of the transceiver communicatively couples with a radio signal input of the device e.g. an antenna where communication signals are received from an established call e.g. a connected or on going call . The received communication signals include voice or other sound signals received from the call and processed by the radio processor for output through the speaker or . The transmitter portion of the transceiver communicatively couples a radio signal output of the device e.g. the antenna where communication signals are transmitted to an established e.g. a connected or coupled or active call. The communication signals for transmission include voice e.g. received through the microphone of the device or other sound signals that is processed by the radio processor for transmission through the transmitter of the transceiver to the established call.

In one embodiment communications using the described radio communications may be over a voice or data network. Examples of voice networks include Global System of Mobile GSM communication system a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA system and a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS . Examples of data networks include General Packet Radio Service GPRS third generation 3G mobile High Speed Download Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX .

While other components may be provided with the radio subsystem the basic components shown provide the ability for the mobile computing device to perform radio frequency communications including telephonic communications. In an embodiment many if not all of the components under the control of the central processor are not required by the radio subsystem when a telephone call is established e.g. connected or ongoing. The radio processor may communicate with central processor using a serial line .

The card interface is adapted to communicate with the expansion slot expansion slot. The card interface transmits data and or instructions between the central processor and an expansion card or media card included in the expansion slot. The card interface also transmits control signals from the central processor to the expansion slot to configure an expansion card or media card included in the expansion slot.

The global positioning system is a hardware software and or firmware module that includes instructions for receiving or retrieving or accessing location or position corresponding to the device. This position information is derived from received GPS signals. It is noted that the device can be configured to leverage other technology as a substitute or in addition to the GPS information to determine location of the device. For example signals from 802.11 or Wi Fi networks or cellular networks can be used to triangulate e.g. cellular tower triangulation to determine the geographical position.

The notification management system comprises one or more modules of software and or firmware that include instructions to control or adjust notification mechanisms within the mobile computing device . Examples of notification mechanisms that can be controlled include ringer volume ring tones lighting and vibration modes on the mobile computing device . It is noted that the notification management system is configured to interface with one or more applications such as a phone application or messaging application. In turn these applications may interface with the radio subsystem for example to receive incoming telephone calls or incoming short message service SMS or electronic mail messages.

In one embodiment central processor executes logic by way of programming code instructions corresponding to executing applications interfaced through for example the navigation area or switches . It is noted that numerous other components and variations are possible to the hardware architecture of the computing device thus an embodiment such as shown by is just illustrative of one implementation for an embodiment.

The application includes the application itself includes an application programming interface API . The application communicatively couples the notification management system through the API . For ease of discussion the application will be referenced as application .

The application is one of many possible applications that may leverage a notification management system . Examples include communication applications such as a phone application a short message service SMS application an instant messenger application an electronic mail application or a pager application. Other examples of an application include personal information type managers such as calendar applications and task or to do applications. Still other example applications include widgets or other object that leverages a web platform such as a weather widget or a feed widget.

The notification management system interfaces with one or more notification mechanisms on the mobile computing device for example through the processor and output driver to control or adjust notification settings of the mobile computing device . Examples of the notification mechanisms within the mobile computing device include audible visual or physical notification mechanisms and corresponding modes. Examples of audible mechanisms include ringer and or sound controls such as volume ringer off including mute and ring tones. Examples of physical mechanisms include light emitting diode LED or fiber optic lighting and or indicators. The lighting can be configured to change visual indicator from one color to another color or change between two or more visual indicators or states. Examples of physical mechanisms include vibration or pulse.

The notification management system includes a database a system control module a profile manager module one or more global positioning tags a notification options module and a notification selector module . The database is configured to store parameters data and other information relating to the system control module the profile manager module the one or more global positioning system GPS tags the notification options module and the notification selector module .

The system controls module is configured to communicatively couple or interface with the notification mechanisms on the mobile computing device . The profile manager provides a central user interface for managing notification configurations. The notification options module and notification selector module may present their interfaces through the user profile manager . In addition the user profile manager can be configured to override default options that may be set through the notification options module or notification selector module . The profile manager also includes options to allow user settings to be overridden by external settings that may be pushed down to the mobile computing device .

The notification options module is configured to present to the user e.g. through a user interface on the display options for notification. The options include identification of one or more applications configured to interface with the notification management system parameters for location or time information to trigger a notification configuration change or change in notification state the type of notification corresponding to a particular location or time and options for selectable notification mechanisms or types of notification that are associated with one or more notification mechanisms. The notification selector module is configured to interface with the system controls to signal the type of notification setting to change to or change in notification state in response an event as set forth or defined in the user profile . The event can be a location based or time based event.

The GPS tags provide latitude and longitudinal values and a range e.g. radius about that latitude and longitudinal value. The GPS tags provide location information for use with the notification options.

By way of example the notification management system can be configured as described herein. A user may configure a user profile through the profile manager to set up notification options and selection. The profile manager is configured to provide an interface to one or more fields that correspond to the parameters for use with the notification management system . The one or more fields may be in any data entry format e.g. open character e.g. text and or numbers entry fields table drop down or list format that allows for input and or selection of application type optional location name location notification options and reversion override option. Each grouping of this information may be referred to as a configuration file .

The location field further interfaces with the notification options module and the one or more GPS tags . In addition the notification options further interface with the notification options module . The entries provided by the user are stored in the database . Within the profile manager the application type corresponds to the application for which notification control is affected e.g. phone application electronic mail application calendar application etc. The optional location name corresponds to a user selectable or enterable name for the location in which the notification change would take effect so that the user can easily identify it. Examples for the optional location name may be Movie Theater School or Conference Keynote. 

The location corresponds to the physical location where the notification change or pre determined setting is to occur. In one embodiment the physical location may be previously tagged through it GPS coordinates i.e. latitude and longitude as may include a tolerance or range value e.g. within x meters or feet of the tagged location x corresponding to a numerical value or within a radius of y meters or feet. The location information can be retrieved from among prestored GPS tags can be manually entered can be searched e.g. online database providing prestored GPS coordinates or can be set when the user is at a particular location and is given an option to store the location as a GPS tag on the mobile computing device . Subsequently when the system is operational the triggering event for the notification adjustment is the device identifying a current location that is at or within the range specified.

Alternately the physical location can be identified through a particular field within an application. For example a calendar entry may include a location field within which a location corresponding to a meeting has been entered. This location can be provided as a character string e.g. Classroom . The Classroom entry is stored in the database as associated with a particular notification as described below. Rather than the physical location triggering the change in notification in this instance the triggering event is the time. The system presumes the user will be or is at the particular location at the time set for the event and proceeds with changing the notification state on the mobile computing device accordingly.

It is noted that the system could be further configured to change notification settings or state of the mobile computing device based on time apart from location. This configuration can be enabled as a data field accessible through the user profile and is configured so that at a particular time as entered the notification setting changes. For example at 10 00 PM the phone application notification setting can be adjusted or changed to ringer off or vibrate mode so that the mobile computing device is audibly silent when the phone application receives a phone call.

The notification options correspond to type of notification that the mobile computing device should be set to at the occurrence of a particular event e.g. being at a particular location or at a particular time . The selectable notifications can be audible visual physical or combination thereof. Examples of the various notifications were provided previously.

The reversion field is an optional field in the user profile . Specifically the reversion field can be included to allow for selection of reverting the notification settings from their new state back to the original or just prior state once the location or time changes and is no longer within the parameter boundaries driving the change in notification state i.e. the notification adjustment .

Further there also may be an optional override field or two or more fields in series or parallel . The override field is structured so that the user can enter in additional parameters that allow the notification state to be changed even through the current parameters e.g. location or time have changed the device notification state. For example if the user profile is set so that in a movie theater the notification management system automatically is set to a ringer off or mute notification state the override parameters can be configured so that the ringer off notification state changes to a vibrate or ringer on notification state if there is an incoming message from a particular application such as a phone call from a pre identified phone number or contact name from an address book e.g. a doctor or baby sister telephone number or name . Moreover the notification settings and corresponding mechanisms can be adjusted on a contact by contact basis e.g. the contacts from within an address book or phone list with different notification options. For example if configuration file can switch an audible notification within the device for a phone call to a lighted notification. Further the lighted notification can be further configured so that the device lights in one color for a particular set of users e.g. family or medical contacts but a different color for other sets of users.

In some embodiments the change of notification state can be dictated by the particular location. For example in one embodiment the user profile can be configured to activate reception of a configuration file e.g. through the radio subsystem of the mobile computing device from a particular location e.g. a movie theater that seeks to enforce a no ring zone for telephone. The mobile computing device can be configured to receive activate and optionally save in the database . The configuration file can be configured to provide the default settings within the user profile for the particular location and can be further configured to prevent a user from further changing some fields e.g. type of notification setting while allowing changes to other fields e.g. override and location name.

It is noted that although the user can set the parameters though the user profile the system can be configured so that the parameters of each field or in a subset of the fields is preset to a system default. Once set parameters are stored in the database they are ready to be retrieved when the notification management system is activated and operational. In addition it is noted that each set of entries corresponding to location can be saved through the user profile in the database as a configuration file. The configuration file can be saved as a separate file e.g. having its own file name and extension for each entry or can be saved as a single file with sub section or subfiles within it e.g. saved as a single active file and extension but subdivided within that file .

In one embodiment when the notification management system is operational in the mobile computing device depending on the triggering event of location or time the system changes the notification setting for the mobile computing device from its present notification state e.g. ringer on to a second notification state e.g. ringer off or mute and or vibrate based on the information stored in the database per the user profile set up. If the mobile computing device already is in the state identified in the user profile for the particular event trigger e.g. location or place the device is kept in that state until another event trigger e.g. change to increased ringer volume in response to changing locations outdoors or entering conventional hall or until it is manually set on the mobile computing device by the user.

The process starts with receiving current location of the mobile computing device . The current location information may include a GPS signal received through the GPS system . The GPS signal includes latitude and longitude coordinates. In one embodiment the system determines if the current location information includes instructions pushed from a particular location e.g. a theater or classroom. If yes and the mobile computing device is configured to accept or receive the particular instructions the system receives the instructions received by the mobile computing device . The instructions may include a default configuration file for the user profile indicating the location name notification setting and GPS tag which includes the tolerance in which the settings of the particular notification state would take effect relative to this particular location.

The system determines if the configuration file is in the database . If not the user profile can be configured to notify the user and determine whether the configuration file should be saved e.g. in the database for future reference or should be discarded after leaving the particular location. The system then configures the device based on the notification settings in the received configuration file. For example the notification selector transmits a signal to the system controls to change the appropriate notification settings for the particular applications defined in the configuration file such as switching the ringer state from ringer on to ringer off mute or vice versa e.g. through a software instruction to not send a signal for a ring to the speaker or turning off an audible mechanism such as a speaker . Thereafter the process can end .

It is noted that the ending of the process includes maintaining the current notification settings of the mobile computing device . It also may include awaiting a change in event status e.g. reversion to settings right before changing of the notification settings and state based on the configuration file or some other event that changes the notification settings of the mobile computing device e.g. moving away from the particular location or out of range of the particular coordinates effecting the change or adjustment in notification settings and state .

In embodiments where the received information is only the GPS coordinates there may be no other external information to trigger the change in notification settings and state in the mobile computing device . In these embodiments the system obtains the GPS coordinates and determines whether the received coordinates correspond to a particular configuration file in the database that includes the coordinates received including in some instances taking into account the tolerance values e.g. within a predetermined distance or radius of the coordinates. If not the process may end as noted above. If there is a configuration file in the database that applies the system configures the mobile computing device in accordance with the notification settings in the file. In one embodiment this may be referenced as a notification adjustment event. For example the notification selector transmits a signal to the system controls to change the appropriate notification settings for the particular applications defined the notification settings are initiated the process can end as noted above.

The configuration as described in is particularly beneficial for automating changes or adjustments made to notification settings for particular applications when particular locations necessitate such changes or adjustments . For example a user may set up in the user profile configuration files for locations such as movie theaters concert halls sport stadiums schools etc. In each instance the adjustments can be configured so that audible sounds are decreased increased or eliminated muted and if desired other indicators e.g. visual or physical can be activated automatically without the need for the user to intervene. Hence the automated system eliminates the need and effort of requiring the user to set and re set notification mechanisms across one or more applications in response to each change in location.

Turning next to it illustrates one example embodiment of a process for notification processing based on identification of the device based on predetermined entries within a calendar. In this example embodiment the notification settings are primarily set based on time parameters. The time parameters include a time field within an application e.g. a calendar application and is comparable with a time as provided through a computing system clock.

In this example embodiment the process starts and receives an event notification from a calendar entry. In one embodiment the calendar entry includes at least a time field and a location field. The event notification includes additional details in the location field e.g. a location for the event such as meeting room or classroom. The additional information can be used to determine whether there is a configuration file corresponding to that location in the database . In the database the pre stored location information can be stored as a location tag e.g. a location identifier by name or by latitude and longitudinal coordinates . If no configuration file exists the process can end . Ending includes awaiting the next event that may trigger a change in the notification settings.

If there is a configuration file in the database corresponding to the additional information the notification selector signals the system control . The system control configures the mobile computing device notification mechanisms according to the parameters set in the configuration file for the particular application or applications. The process then ends as noted above.

It is noted that in alternate embodiments a notification trigger corresponding to an event can be associated with a particular activity rather than a location. For example the activity can be a Meeting or Class and may be included in a subject field of a calendar. The notification trigger identifies these notification trigger tags in the subject field of the calendar and determines whether a corresponding configuration file exists in the database for changing the state of the device notification. Continuing with this example a tag of Meeting in the calendar may include instructions in the database to place the mobile computing device into a mute state for the duration of the meeting e.g. as determined by the time parameters in the calendar entry . When the event is over e.g. end time on the calendar the configuration file includes instructions to change the state of the notification on the device from a mute state to a ringer on state.

The configuration as described in is particularly beneficial for automating changes or adjustments made to notification settings for particular applications when there is consistency among a multiple entries. For example a user may indicate in the calendar application executing within the mobile computing device certain days and times in which the user is in class during the school day or in meetings during the work day. The user can create a profile in the notification management system labeled Meeting Room or Classroom . This label is then inserted into the location field of the calendar entry and linked the configuration file in the notification management system . Thereafter each time period in which the location information Meeting Room or Classroom is encountered in the location field of each calendar entry the system automatically configures the notification mechanisms on the mobile computing device. Likewise rather than a location the system can be configured to use another event notification label e.g. in a subject field such as Meeting or Class in lieu of location and thereafter associate these labels are stored as particular configuration files in the database .

In each instance using either the subject field or the location field to identify particular tags for a particular event the notification selector signals the system controls to change the notification settings on the mobile computing device for applications as identified by the user in the configuration file e.g. as set through the user profile for name of Meeting Class Meeting Room Classroom . Hence the user is relieved from having to affirmatively seek to change notification settings in particular environments. Moreover the system beneficially can have the notification revert back to an original notification setting once the particular time slot is passed.

Some portions of above description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms e.g. flowcharts and symbolic representations of operations e.g. block diagrams on information for example in . These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof. The computer programs are executable by a processor and it is noted that in some instances portions of the computer programs provide for an analysis that the processor can implement as analysis module.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the term connected to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. In another example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for changing or adjusting notification mechanisms for a mobile computing device in response to pre determined location information of the mobile computing device. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein and that various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus of the present invention disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

