---

title: Vibrating debris remover
abstract: A system and a retrofit kit for removing debris from a surface of a material. At least one vibration subunit is provided which is either embedded within or operatively connected to a back surface of the material. The vibration subunits are capable of converting a driving energy to a vibrating mechanical output energy which is coupled to the material. At least one external energy source is provided which is operatively connected to the vibration subunits. The external energy source is capable of providing the driving energy to the vibration subunits. The vibrating mechanical energy is capable of causing debris to be removed from the surface of the material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08087297&OS=08087297&RS=08087297
owner: 
number: 08087297
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20081217
---
This U.S. patent application is a continuation in part of and claims priority to pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 858 680 filed on Sep. 20 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and which is a continuation in part of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 461 667 filed on Aug. 1 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 949 613 filed on Sep. 24 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 084 553 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and which claims the benefit of provisional U.S. patent application Ser. No. 60 550 567 filed on Mar. 4 2004.

This invention was made by an employee of the United States Government. The Government has a nonexclusive irrevocable royalty free license in the invention with power to grant licenses for all governmental purposes.

Certain embodiments of the present invention relate to debris removal. More particularly certain embodiments of the present invention relate to systems and retrofit kits for removing debris adhered to a surface of a material.

It is important for the safe operation of any vehicle that a clear unobstructed view to the outside environment be maintained. An example of such viewing need is for the driver of an automobile. In this application material such as the windshield side windows rearview mirrors and rear windows have a surface exposed to the outside weather elements where rain snow ice and other debris can accumulate. The accumulation of this debris poses a significant problem with maintaining a clear view to the outside environment.

In prior art one method used to remove solid debris such as ice from a material surface consists of a device which blows hot air on the material s interior surface or heats the material surface by the Joule effect through metal wires attached to the material. A major drawback to these devices is that the time it takes to remove the debris is significant. Also the field of view is obstructed with the metal wire technology.

In other prior art another method used to remove debris such as ice and or liquid from a material surface consists of only mounting transducer elements which vibrate directly onto the material surface. The transducer elements are made from piezoelectric or magnetostrictive material and electrical energy is used to make these elements vibrate. Such devices are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 724 186 5 155 625 5 132 840 5 148 312 5 037 189 5 007 722 4 833 373 5 136 425 5 025 187 and 5 172 024. A major drawback of these devices is that the vibrating transducer elements mount perpendicular and directly on the material surface. Because the vibrating transducer elements are attached in this manner the magnitude of the vibrations developed by the transducer elements cannot be changed and in particular magnified prior to entering into the material. This results in a design which is very inefficient because of the amount of energy required to generate the necessary vibration amplitude in the material to remove the unwanted debris. Another drawback of these devices is that the dimensions of the vibrating transducers have to be carefully chosen such that their natural vibration frequency is tuned to that of the material in order to be efficient. Additionally some of the above referenced devices are mounted on the material surface in such a way that the field of view through the material can be highly obstructed if applied in the use of windshield or side windows for removing debris.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional traditional and proposed approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems and methods with the present invention as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

A device that when attached along the edge of a material such as a vehicular window will propagate mechanical vibration or shock motion created by the device into the material with sufficient magnitude in order to remove solid debris such as ice and or liquid debris such as water from the surface of the material is disclosed. With the addition of a pulser receiver and or a frequency spectrum electronic unit the device could also function as a debris detector. Additional vibrator subunits could also be attached to the material surface or embedded in the material to either augment the converter and coupler units vibration energy source or to provide an alternate vibration energy source if the converter and coupler units were inactive or unattached. Certain embodiments of the present invention shall be described chiefly with respect to an application for the detection removal of ice and or water from the windshield of an automobile. However it will be easily understood that the described application of the device is in no way restrictive to a great many other applications in which the detection removal of debris from other types of material surfaces may be required. Some examples of other applications include ice detection removal from aircraft wings wind turbine blades adhesive removal on or between two materials cookware cleaning and the removal of paint from a material surface.

An embodiment of the present invention comprises a system for removing debris from a surface. The system includes a material from which debris is to be removed. The material has a front surface capable of having debris attached thereto and an opposing back surface. The system further includes at least one vibration subunit operatively connected to the opposing back surface and capable of converting a driving energy to a vibrating mechanical output energy which is coupled into the material. The system also includes at least one external energy source connected to the at least one vibration subunit. The at least one external energy source is capable of providing the driving energy to the at least one vibration subunit. The system may further include a pulser receiver unit or a frequency spectrum electronic unit operatively connected to the at least one vibration subunit and capable of detecting at least one of debris on the front surface of the material and damage to the material.

The system may further include a converter unit capable of producing mechanical motion at an output and a coupler having a first end and a second end the first end being operatively associated with the converter output and capable of transmitting the mechanical motion produced by the converter unit the second end being adapted to attach to an edge of the material. The system may further include a pulser receiver unit or a frequency spectrum electronic unit operatively connected to the converter unit and capable of detecting at least one of debris on the front surface of the material and damage to the material.

The at least one vibration subunit may include a piezoelectric actuator device capable of converting electrical energy provided by the at least one external energy source to vibrating mechanical energy. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the piezoelectric actuator device is further capable of converting deflecting mechanical energy provided by the material to electrical energy and storing the electrical energy. As an alternative the at least one vibration subunit may include a pneumatic actuator device capable of converting pneumatic energy provided by the at least one external energy source to vibrating mechanical energy. As a further alternative the at least one vibration subunit may include a hydraulic actuator device capable of converting hydraulic energy provided by the at least one external energy source to vibrating mechanical energy.

In accordance with certain embodiments of the present invention the material forms one of at least a portion of a windshield at least a portion of an aircraft wing or tail at least a portion of an air foil at least a portion of a wind turbine blade at least a portion of a helicopter rotor blade and at least a portion of a refrigeration coil cooling fin. The material may include at least one of glass metal and a composite material for example. The debris may include ice for example.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the at least one vibration subunit is operatively connected at a vibration node of the material on the opposing back surface.

Another embodiment of the present invention comprises a system for removing debris from a surface. The system includes a material from which debris is to be removed. The material has a front surface capable of having debris attached thereto. The system further includes at least one vibration subunit operatively embedded within the material and capable of converting a driving energy to a vibrating mechanical energy which is coupled into the material. The system also includes at least one external energy source connected to the at least one embedded vibration subunit. The at least one external energy source is capable of providing the driving energy to the at least one embedded vibration subunit. The system may further include a pulser receiver unit or a frequency spectrum electronic unit operatively connected to the at least one embedded vibration subunit and capable of detecting at least one of debris on the front surface of the material and damage to the material.

The system may further include a converter unit capable of producing mechanical motion at an output and a coupler having a first end and a second end the first end being operatively associated with the converter output and capable of transmitting the mechanical motion produced by the converter unit the second end being adapted to attach to an edge of the material. The system may further include a pulser receiver unit or a frequency spectrum electronic unit operatively connected to the converter unit and capable of detecting at least one of debris on the front surface of the material and damage to the material.

The at least one embedded vibration subunit may include a piezoelectric actuator device capable of converting electrical energy provided by the at least one external energy source to vibrating mechanical energy. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the piezoelectric actuator device is further capable of converting deflecting mechanical energy provided by the material to electrical energy and storing the electrical energy. As an alternative the at least one embedded vibration subunit may include a pneumatic actuator device capable of converting pneumatic energy provided by the at least one external energy source to vibrating mechanical energy. As a further alternative the at least one embedded vibration subunit may include a hydraulic actuator device capable of converting hydraulic energy provided by the at least one external energy source to vibrating mechanical energy.

In accordance with certain embodiments of the present invention the material forms one of at least a portion of a windshield at least a portion of an aircraft wing or tail at least a portion of an air foil at least a portion of a wind turbine blade at least a portion of a helicopter rotor blade and at least a portion of a refrigeration coil cooling fin. The material may include at least one of glass metal and a composite material for example. The debris may include ice for example.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the at least one vibration subunit is operatively embedded at a vibration node within the material.

A further embodiment of the present invention comprises a retrofit kit for a material forming at least one of a windshield an aircraft wing or tail an air foil a wind turbine blade a helicopter rotor blade and a refrigeration coil cooling fin. The retrofit kit includes a plurality of vibration subunits adapted to be operatively connected to a back surface of the material and capable of converting a driving energy to a vibrating mechanical output energy which is coupled into the material. The retrofit kit further includes an adhesive capable of mechanically and acoustically coupling the plurality of vibration subunits to the material. The retrofit kit also includes at least one external energy source capable of being connected to the plurality of vibration subunits. The at least one external energy source is capable of providing the driving energy to the plurality of vibration subunits. The retrofit kit further includes a plurality of connectors to connect the at least one external energy source to the plurality of vibration subunits to channel the driving energy from the at least one external energy source to the plurality of vibration subunits. The retrofit kit may also include a pulser receiver unit or a frequency spectrum electronic unit capable of being operatively connected to at least one of the plurality of vibration subunits and capable of detecting at least one of debris on a surface of the material and damage to the material.

The retrofit kit may further include a converter unit capable of producing mechanical motion at an output and a coupler having a first end and a second end the first end being operatively associated with the converter output and capable of transmitting the mechanical motion produced by the converter unit the second end being adapted to attach to an edge of the material. The retrofit kit may also include a pulser receiver unit or a frequency spectrum electronic unit capable of being operatively connected to the converter unit and capable of detecting at least one of debris on a surface of the material and damage to the material.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the plurality of vibration subunits may be operatively connected at vibration nodes of the material on the back surface.

These and other advantages and novel features of the present invention as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

Certain embodiments of the present invention relate to a device which is either permanently attached or removable to the edge of a material such as a vehicular glass window or the leading edge of an aircraft or wind turbine airfoil. This device is comprised of two units a converter sub unit vibrator and a coupler sub unit. A pulser receiver and or a frequency spectrum electronic unit could be attached the converter sub unit such that the device could also function as a debris detector. Additional vibrator subunits such as but not limited to piezoelectric actuators could also be attached to the underside of a material surface or embedded in the material to either augment the converter and coupler units vibration energy source or to provide an alternate vibration energy source if the converter and coupler units were inactive or unattached. The converter sub unit vibrator and a coupler sub unit are arranged so as to propagate mechanical motion generated by the converter sub unit through the coupler sub unit and into the edge of the attached material. The additional vibrator subunits are strategically placed at very specific locations on the material or imbedded internal to the material to augment or serve as a backup vibration energy source to the mechanical motion generated by the converter sub unit through the coupler sub unit and into the edge of the attached material. The resulting vibration motion in the material which could take the form of a longitudinal compression rarefaction wave transverse wave or a combination of the two waveforms is of a sufficient magnitude so as to cause the adhesive bond between the material s surface and other solid debris such as ice to be quickly broken. This allows the debris to fall away while not damaging the material or the additional vibrator subunits. The vibration motion in the material is also of sufficient magnitude to remove a liquid such as water from the material surface.

The converter sub unit converts an energy source such as electrical pneumatic or fluid e.g. hydraulic into mechanical vibration or shock pulse motion. The coupler sub unit transfers the mechanical motion generated by the converter sub unit into the attached material. Also the coupler sub unit can be designed to reduce magnify or keep constant the amplitude of the converter sub unit mechanical motion before it enters the material. The design of the converter sub unit and the geometric configuration and material properties of the coupler sub unit are related specifically to the material characteristics and physical dimensions of the material to which they are attached i.e. an automotive windshield. The additional vibrator subunits convert an energy source such as electrical or pneumatic into mechanical vibration or shock pulse motion and do not need to be related specifically to the material characteristics and physical dimensions of the material to which they are attached.

In an attempt to maintain a clear view to the outside environment a device utilizing mechanical vibrations has been developed. This device which is either removable or permanently attached to the edge of a material is comprised of two sub units. These are the converter sub unit and the coupler sub unit. The converter sub unit converts an energy source such as electrical pneumatic or fluid into mechanical vibration or shock pulse motion. If the converter sub unit utilizes a piezoelectric crystal to convert electrical energy into mechanical motion it could be attached to a pulser receiver and or a frequency spectrum electronic unit to be used as a debris detector. Additional vibrator subunits could also be attached along the material surface or embedded in the material to either augment the converter and coupler units vibration energy source or to provide an alternate vibration energy source if the convertor and coupler units were inactive or unattached. If the additional vibrator sub units also utilize a piezoelectric material to convert electrical energy into mechanical motion they could also be attached to a pulser receiver and or a frequency spectrum electronic unit to be used as a debris detector.

The coupler sub unit transfers the mechanical motion generated by the converter sub unit into the attached material. Also the coupler sub unit can be designed to reduce magnify or keep constant the amplitude of the converter sub unit mechanical motion before it enters the material.

Accordingly the intent of the claimed invention is to overcome the drawbacks of prior art methods used for the removal of debris from a material surface. To achieve this intent and in accordance with the principles of embodiments of the present invention as embodied and broadly described herein the device is comprised of two sub units a converter sub unit and a coupler sub unit. These two sub units are used together to propagate vibrations into the edge of a material causing the material to vibrate. Additional vibrator subunits could also be attached to the material surface or embedded in the material to either augment the converter and coupler units vibration energy source or to provide an alternate vibration energy source if the converter and coupler units were inactive or unattached. In the case of the additional vibrators being embedded in the material these vibrators will also attach to two edges of the material. Because the material is vibrating the removal of the debris is achieved by breaking the adhesive bond existing between the material surface and the undesired debris. This is done without harming the material or additional vibrator subunits and can be done without obstructing the view through the material surface such as an automotive windshield.

Therefore certain embodiments of the present invention provide a system for removing ice water or other debris from a material surface by causing vibrations in the material. The vibrations in the material are the result of mechanical vibration or shock motion entering into the edge of the material through the use of a coupler sub unit. Additional vibrator subunits could also be attached to the material surface or embedded in the material to either augment the existing vibrations in the material or to provide an alternate vibration energy source if the converter and coupler units were inactive or unattached. If the additional vibrators subunits are embedded in the material these vibrator subunits will also be attached to two edges of the material. This is unlike prior art methods in which devices are only attached perpendicular to the material surface.

Certain embodiments of the present invention also provide a debris removal system in which the vibration frequency is adjustable if required for matching the resonating vibration frequency of the material with debris attached. With the addition of a pulser receiver and or a frequency spectrum electronic unit attached to either the converter sub unit or the additional vibrator subunits the device could also function as a debris detector by detecting vibration pulse delays or vibration spectrum frequency shifts.

The concern for the removal of debris from a material is very real. Certain embodiments of the present invention shall be described with respect to an automotive windshield. However this should in no way be restrictive to a great many other materials and applications to which this debris removal device could be employed.

As shown in some type of debris such as ice and or water can build on a material surface such as an automobile windshield to a level where visibility to the outside environment is impaired. This results in a dangerous operating condition. A vibrating debris remover has been developed that can remove debris such as ice from a material surface such as an automotive windshield. The vibrating debris remover consists of two parts the converter sub unit and the coupler sub unit to which the material is attached.

The converter sub unit and coupler sub unit are so arranged as to propagate mechanical vibration or shock pulse motion generated by the converter sub unit into the coupler sub unit and then into the edge of the material . The coupler sub unit can be designed to reduce magnify or keep constant the amplitude of the converter sub unit s mechanical vibration or shock pulse motion before it enters the material to which is attached some debris particle.

The resulting vibrations in the material will be in the form of a longitudinal motion transverse motion or a combination of the two based on how the coupler sub unit is attached to the material . The longitudinal motion in the material is the result of compressions and rarefactions in the material s molecular density . The longitudinal motion transverse motion or a combination of the two in the material is of a sufficient magnitude and strain rate such that the adhesive bond between the material and debris is quickly broken allowing the debris to fall away while not damaging the material . The vibrations in the material are also of sufficient magnitude as to cause water droplets to leave the material surface.

Converter Sub Unit As shown in and in the converter sub unit has the purpose of converting an external energy source such as electrical pneumatic or fluid into longitudinal mechanical motion of the converter sub unit tip surface . The longitudinal mechanical motion of the converter sub unit tip surface could take the form of a sine wave random wave complex wave or a pulse wave . In addition the longitudinal mechanical motion of the converter sub unit tip surface could be a combination of all or some of the above mentioned waveforms.

There are several devices in existence which can perform the function of the converter . As an example electrical energy source can be converted into longitudinal mechanical vibration motion of the converter sub unit tip surface through the use of a piezoelectric transducer consisting of piezoelectric material as shown in . An example of such a device is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 570 295. Electrical energy can also be converted into longitudinal mechanical vibration motion of the converter sub unit tip surface through the use of a magnetostrictive transducer as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 624 539.

An electrical energy source can also be converted into longitudinal mechanical vibration motion of the converter sub unit tip surface is through the use of an electric motor and gearing as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 231 155.

As a further example a pneumatic energy source can be converted into longitudinal mechanical vibration motion of the converter sub unit tip surface through the use of a pneumatic hammer as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 930 899.

As a final example longitudinal mechanical vibration motion of the converter sub unit tip surface can be created through the use of whistles and sirens which use a fluid jet energy source such as compressed air to pass through some sort of orifice causing the support structure to vibrate as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 609 368.

As an example of a device that can create a longitudinal mechanical shock pulse motion the device described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 349 143 uses an electrically activated solenoid to cause the movement of a plunger component. This plunger component can be a metal rod such that when it contacts another surface a shock pulse is created which travels into the contacting surface.

Converter Sub Unit to Coupler Sub Unit Attachment The converter sub unit tip surface is in contact with the coupler sub unit surface shown in . These two surfaces are connected to each other in such a fashion to ensure that the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion from the converter sub unit tip surface transfers into the coupler sub unit surface . This causes the coupler sub unit surface to have longitudinal vibration motion which transfers through the coupler sub unit and creates longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion at the coupler sub unit tip surface .

For example as shown in the connection could be made with an inserted stud . Attachment of the converter sub unit and the coupler sub unit onto the stud is made such that the converter sub unit tip surface and the coupler sub unit surface are placed and remain in compression. This configuration results in a design which the converter sub unit can be removed and replaced relatively easy.

As an additional example as shown in the converter sub unit tip surface and the coupler sub unit surface could be placed in compression by pushing the converter sub unit tip surface up against the coupling sub unit surface through the use of some sort of clamping device such that the converter sub unit tip surface and the coupler sub unit surface are placed and remain in compression. This configuration results in a design which the converter sub unit can be removed and replaced.

Or as shown in the converter sub unit tip surface and coupling sub unit surface could be made nonexistent because the converter sub unit and the coupler sub unit are made from a single piece of material . In this arrangement the converter sub unit would not be removable from the coupler sub unit . This configuration results in a design that would create a difficult maintenance situation if the converter sub unit had to be replaced.

In any case one of the key design criteria of the vibrating debris remover is to ensure a good compressive interface exists between the converter sub unit tip surface and the coupling sub unit surface . The most efficient design would ensure that the converter sub unit tip surface and the coupling sub unit surface always remain in compression.

Converter Sub Unit to Coupler Sub Unit Material Matching In addition to ensuring a good compressive interface exists between the converter tip surface and coupling sub unit surface it is also advantageous to understand what impedance values exists between the materials used for the converter sub unit and the coupler sub unit . By understanding the material impedances the values of the stress wave reflection and stress wave transmission coefficients can be calculated at the interface of the converter sub unit tip surface to coupler sub unit surface . The longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion of the converter sub unit tip surface is transferred by a force from the converter sub unit tip surface pushing up against the coupler sub unit surface . Since this force is acting through the cross sectional area of the converter sub unit tip surface a stress state is present at this interface.

This stress state is important to know because there are cases in which the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion of the converter tip does not create any substantial longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion at the converter surface . This condition exists if there is a significant difference between the impedance values of the converter sub unit and coupler sub unit materials. The result is a very inefficient design and the amount of energy required for the converter sub unit to remove debris on the material surface would be unreasonably high.

Referring to and assuming that the converter sub unit tip surface and the coupler sub unit surface have identical cross sectional areas mathematical equations 1 and 2 can be used to determine the stress transmission and stress reflection coefficients at this interface.

Using Equations 1 and 2 it can be shown that if the material properties of the converter sub unit and coupler sub unit are the same then Z Zand the stress reflection coefficient is zero and the stress transmission coefficient is one. This means that the incident stress wave is completely transmitted with no reflected stress wave . The incident stress wave and the transmitted stress wave have the same magnitudes.

However if Z Z it can be shown using Equations 1 and 2 that the magnitude of the transmitted stress wave will have less magnitude than the original incident stress wave . In addition the reflected stress wave will have a negative value. This means that an incident stress wave that is compressive in nature will be reflected as a rarefaction and that an incident stress wave that is a rarefaction in nature will be reflected as a compressive wave.

By choosing the proper materials for the converter sub unit and coupler sub unit an efficient transfer of stress can be achieved at the converter sub unit tip surface to coupler sub unit surface .

Coupler Sub unit The coupler sub unit has the purpose of transmitting the converter sub unit s longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion into the edge of the material . There are several advantages to using a coupler sub unit . These advantages are I the converter sub unit can be easily removed for repairs and also easily installed II the coupler sub unit can serve as an impedance buffer to better match the converter sub unit material and the material III the coupler sub unit can be designed to reduce magnify or keep constant the amplitude of the converter sub unit s mechanical motion before it enters the material IV it can direct the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion developed by the converter sub unit in a direction which is not the same as the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion direction in the material and V the coupler sub unit can be specially designed to attached to the material edge as shown in .

As an example to explain how the coupler sub unit can be designed to serve as an impedance buffer or how it can be designed to reduce magnify or keep constant the amplitude of the converter sub unit s mechanical motion before it enters the material mathematical Equations 3 and 4 can be used.

Referring to and Equations 3 and 4 the knowledge of how stress will transfer through an interface of two different materials and a step in cross sectional areas is presented. represents a side view of a coupler sub unit that utilizes a step change in height along its length.

These equations take into account driving point impedances differences of material properties and cross sectional areas to determine the relationship between the incident reflected and transmitted stress waves.

And since force balance at the interface must be maintained the following force balance relationship must be achieved Equation 5 

Example Coupler Sub unit of a Single Material and No Step Change in Area Since in this case the coupler sub unit is made of a single material Z Z . Referring to and using Equations 3 and 4 it is shown that as long as there is no cross sectional area changes in the coupler sub unit there will be no reflected stress wave . Also the transmitted stress wave magnitude is equal to the incident stress wave . Thus the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion at the coupler sub unit surface and the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion present at the coupler sub unit tip surface will have the same magnitude. Using Equation 5 force balance across the interface is maintained.

In reality there will be some damping losses in the coupler sub unit which will cause the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion at the coupler sub unit tip to be lower in magnitude than the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion at the coupler sub unit surface . However the material damping loss factors can be minimized.

Example Coupler Sub Unit of a Single Material with a Step Change in Area Since in this case the coupler sub unit is made of a single material Z Z . Referring to and using Equations 3 and 4 it is shown that if the coupler sub unit has a cross sectional area change in which Ais larger than A the coupler sub unit will have a reflected stress wave that has a magnitude which is less than the incident stress wave and will have the opposite sign of the incident wave. This opposite sign means that an incident compressive stress wave is reflected as a rarefaction tension stress wave and an incident rarefaction stress wave is reflected as compression stress wave. The transmitted stress wave will be greater in magnitude than the incident stress wave . As a check the force balance of Equation 5 is maintained.

Referring to and using Equations 3 and 4 it is shown that if the coupler sub unit has a cross sectional area change in which Ais smaller than A the coupler sub unit will have a reflected stress wave that has a magnitude which is less than the incident stress wave and will have the same sign of the incident wave. This same sign means that an incident compressive stress wave is reflected as a compressive stress wave and an incident rarefaction tension stress wave is reflected as rarefaction stress wave. The transmitted stress wave will be smaller in magnitude than the incident stress wave . As a check the force balance of Equation 5 is maintained.

As can be seen from Equations 3 and 4 there are a great many combinations of materials and area ratios that could be used in designing the stepped coupler sub unit . However it can be stated that if the stepped coupler sub unit is made of a single material and there is a step change in height along the coupler sub unit such that A A then the magnitude of the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion of the coupler sub unit tip surface will be greater than the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion of the coupler sub unit surface based only on these parameters.

Other types of Coupler Sub Unit Geometries There are other coupler sub unit designs that do not utilize a step change in area along the coupler sub unit length to amplify the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion of the coupler sub unit surface . These designs still have a change in height between the coupler sub unit surface and the coupler sub unit tip surface but utilize other geometries to achieve this. As examples of these other geometries shows the side views of coupler sub units that have the following geometries step catenoidal exponential and longitudinal taper . also shows how the displacements and internal material stresses change throughout the length of the coupler sub unit .

There are many choices for the coupler sub unit geometries. Several engineering text books are available that go into great detail as to how to calculate engineering parameters such as displacement and internal material stress of coupler sub units that have various geometric properties.

Coupler Sub Unit to Material Surface Attachment The coupler sub unit tip surface is in contact with the edge of the material . These two surfaces are connected to each other in such a fashion as to ensure that the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion from the coupler sub unit tip surface transfers into the material of interest causing the material to vibrate with a longitudinal transverse or both a longitudinal and transverse motion .

The coupler sub unit can be connected to the material at some angle as shown in . If the coupler sub unit is attached parallel 0 to the material surface then a longitudinal wave will be present in the material . If the coupler sub unit is connected to the material such that 0 

For example as shown in the connection could be made with an inserted fastener and attaching the coupler sub unit and the material together such that the coupler sub unit tip surface is and the material edge are placed and remain in compression.

Additionally as shown in the coupler sub unit tip surface and the material edge could be placed and remain compression by pushing the coupler sub unit tip surface up against the material edge through the use of some sort of clamping device such that the coupler sub unit tip surface and the material edge are placed and remain in compression.

Or as shown in the coupler sub unit tip surface and material edge could be glued together with some form of adhesive . During the adhesive process the coupler sub unit tip surface and the material edge would be placed in compression with each other and held in place until the adhesive cured. After the adhesive cured the two surfaces would be held in place by the adhesive with longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion transferring from the coupler sub unit into the material through the adhesive. This similar process could be used to attach the converter sub unit surface to the coupler unit surface .

Or as shown in the coupler sub unit and material could be glued together with some form of adhesive along the side surfaces. During the adhesive process the coupler sub unit and the material would be placed in compression with each other and held in place until the adhesive cured. After the adhesive cured the two surfaces would be held in place by the adhesive with longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion transferring from the coupler sub unit into the material through the adhesive.

As a final example shown in the coupler sub unit tip surface and material edge could be made nonexistent because the coupler sub unit and the material are made from a single piece of material .

In any case one of the key design criteria is to ensure a good attachment exists between the coupler sub unit tip surface which is experiencing longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion and the material edge . The most efficient design would ensure that the coupler sub unit tip surface and the material edge always remain in compression or have a strong adhesive joint between them.

An additional feature of the coupler sub unit as shown in is that it can be designed to direct the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion developed by the converter sub unit in a direction and or plane of reference which is not the same as the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion in the material .

Coupler Sub Unit to Material Surface Material Matching In addition to ensuring a good compressive or adhesive attachment between the coupler sub unit tip surface and the material edge it is also advantageous to understand what impedance values exists between the materials used for the coupler sub unit and the material . By understanding the material impedances the values of the stress wave reflection and stress wave transmission coefficients can be calculated at the interface of the coupler sub unit tip surface to material edge . The longitudinal vibration motion of the coupler sub unit tip surface is transferred by a force from the coupler sub unit tip surface pushing up against the material edge . Since this force is acting through the cross sectional area of the coupler sub unit tip surface a stress state is present at this interface. An efficient matching process of the materials and area changes between the coupler sub unit and material are similar as was described in section 3.0.

Material with Debris Attached The material of interest has the debris that is to be removed. For example and as shown in this material surface may serve the purpose of the windshield of an automobile . It may also be the leading edge of an aircraft wing as shown in . In any case the existence of debris such as ice and water on the material surface is not desired and is to be removed.

Designing an Efficient Vibrating System In order that sufficient relative acceleration strain and strain rate can be achieved at the interface between the debris and material surface an efficient design must be developed. The most efficient design for the vibrating debris remover not only has to deal with the impedance matching of the converter sub unit to the coupler sub unit and the coupler sub unit to the material of interest but it also must be designed to vibrate with the least amount of energy as possible while achieving the highest accelerations and strain rates in the material and debris . This condition is known as resonance. Once the resonance state is achieved the particle motions in the coupler sub unit and the material of interest can have much greater amplitudes than the motions present in the material particles of the converter sub unit . If low material damping is present high Q or amplification values can be achieved. The result of high Q values is particle motion and accelerations in the material of interest which will cause the adhesive bond with the debris particle to be broken.

To achieve resonance the frequency of vibration of the converter sub unit coupler sub unit and the material surface of interest must be the same or within very close tolerance . The operating frequency of the converter sub unit and the coupler sub unit must be based on the frequency of a waveform traveling in the material

Once the vibration frequency of the waveform in the material has been determined it is advantageous to determine the physical dimensions for the coupler sub unit such that it also wants to vibrate at the same frequency in addition to designing the converter sub unit to operate at this same frequency.

If proper impedance matching is performed between all materials and the vibrating debris remover is designed to vibrate with a sinusoidal motion at the same frequency as the material then an energy efficient system will be developed.

Designing an Efficient Shock Pulse System In order that sufficient relative acceleration strain and strain rate can be achieved at the interface between the debris and material surface an efficient design must be developed. The most efficient design for the shock pulse debris remover not only has to deal with the impedance matching of the converter sub unit to the coupler sub unit and the coupler sub unit to the material of interest but the coupler sub unit must be designed to vibrate at the same frequency as the material of interest.

The frequency of vibration of the coupler sub unit and the material of interest must be the same or within very close tolerance . The operating frequency of the coupler sub unit must be based on the frequency of a waveform traveling in the material . Once the vibration frequency of the waveform in the material has been determined it is advantageous to determine the physical dimensions for the coupler sub unit such that it also wants to vibrate at the same frequency. For a vibrating debris remover designed to produce a shock pulse or multiple shock pulses only the coupler sub unit has to be designed to vibrate at the same frequency as the material for an energy efficient system to be developed.

Using the Converter Unit as a Debris Detector If the converter sub unit utilizes a piezoelectric crystal to convert electrical energy into mechanical motion it could also be attached to a pulser receiver and or a frequency spectrum electronic unit to be used as a debris detector as shown in . The device would function as a debris detector by either detecting vibration pulse delays as described in or vibration spectrum frequency shifts as described in .

If the external energy source were not turned on then a pulsed energy source similar to one shown in could be sent to the piezoelectric crystals by the pulser receiver electronic unit . This unit could be similar but not limited to those used in material Non Destructive Evaluation testing NDE such as the RITEC RPR 4000 or the JSR DPR500 electronic units. This energy source would cause the piezoelectric crystals to pulse causing mechanical motion to propagate into the material . This mechanical motion would reflect at the end of the material and return to the piezoelectric crystals . This returning signal would cause the piezoelectric crystals to vibrate. The piezoelectric crystal vibrations will create an electrical signal which would be detected by the pulser receiver electronic unit . The time delay between the pulsed signal and the received signal would be measured. A known measured value of this time delay from a material with no debris would be known. If this time delay were to change then it can be determine if debris is present and how much debris had accumulated on the material surface based on the amount of time delay between the pulsed and reflected signal.

If the external energy source were not turned on then a short burst of vibratory excitation energy could be sent to the piezoelectric crystals by the frequency spectrum electronic unit . This would cause the converter coupler and material to vibrate. After this short burst of excitation energy the converter coupler and material would continue to mechanically vibrate at resonant frequencies until structural damping stopped such vibration. This mechanical vibration would be detected by the piezoelectric crystals which would convert this motion into an electrical signal and be sent to the pulser receiver and frequency spectrum electronic unit . The electrical signal received by the frequency spectrum electronic unit from the vibrating piezoelectric crystals would be broken down into its frequency spectrum. A known measured value of this frequency spectrum from a material with no debris would be known. If this frequency spectrum were to change in either frequency and or magnitude then it could be determine if debris is present and how much debris had accumulated on the material surface.

Augmenting the converter and coupler unit vibration energy source As described in the previous sections the debris is removed from a material surface due to vibrations in the material surface . The debris adhesion bond will break when either the shear strength or the tensile strength of this bond is exceeded by overcoming the maximum allowable strength at the bond location. In some applications such as the removal of ice from a material surface the debris adhesion shear bond shear strength is much lower in magnitude than the adhesion tension bond tension strength as defined in . Thus the most efficient way to remove debris such as ice from a material surface is to overcome the adhesive shear bond strength.

Underlying Physics To achieve this a shearing force Fs must be developed instead of a tension force Ft . In the application of removing debris such as ice from a material surface this shearing force can be achieved from Newton s Second Law which states Fs ma Equation 6 

Since the acceleration of a debris mass will be used to develop the inertial shearing force Fs to overcome the adhesive shearing bond shear strength the minimal desired removal value of the debris mass such as ice must be known or chosen for the application. The minimal debris mass value can vary depending on the desired application and is a very important variable since it is used to calculate vibration excitation frequency.

In addition to the debris mass it is also very important to know the amount of surface area in which the debris is in contact with the material surface.

The peak acceleration of the mass of debris such as ice is achieved by the vibration motion of the material structural surface at a particular frequency. This relationship can be written mathematically for a sinusoidal vibration as follows a Equation 9 

The vibration peak displacement magnitude of the material surface is achieved through the excitation of longitudinal transverse or both longitudinal and transverse structural mode shape motion of the material surface. To achieve an efficient debris removal system it is advantageous to excite the mode shape motions at the frequencies they naturally want to vibrate.

Thus the adhesive shear bond of debris such as ice will be broken when the following mathematical relationship is achieved shear Equation 10 

To ensure that the vibrations in the material do not exceed the material stress and fatigue limits the maximum allowable vibration displacement in the material must be chosen based on the material fatigue and strength properties. From the previously calculated values of the minimum amount of debris mass the maximum amount of vibration displacement allowed to occur in the material the debris surface area and the debris bond shear stress shear strength the minimum frequency of the vibration motion is determined as follows shear Equation 11 

Thus from the above relationship if the material shearing modes of vibration at frequencies equal or greater than are excited into sinusoidal motion with a displacement value of then a debris mass m with a surface area of magnitude A will break free of the material surface because the debris shearing stress shear bond will be broken. This will be achieved without damaging the material .

Material Excitation To excite the material shearing mode shape motions at the proper frequency or greater and displacement magnitude the vibration energy from an excitation source will need to be introduced into the material . The convertor and coupler otherwise known as the vibrating debris remover provide this excitation energy into the edge of the material . To either augment the converter and coupler units vibration energy source or to provide an alternate vibration energy source if the convertor and coupler units were inactive or unattached additional vibrator subunits can be attached to the underside of the material as shown in or embedded in the material as shown in . As shown in if the vibrator subunit is embedded in the material it will attach to two edges of the material .

If a vibrator subunit or multiple units were to be used to augment or to provide alternate energy sources to excite the material longitudinal structural mode shapes the position of the vibrator subunit is critical. If a vibrator subunit is properly attached at a strategically chosen location the material mode shape will be easily excited and the displacement values in the material can be higher than those from the excitation source if the material mode is driven into resonance.

As shown in as a material is excited in a longitudinal motion to create the required shearing force between the debris and the material there will be locations in the material for which no motion occurs. These positions are called node points. At these node points the material to either side will be moving away from the node point A or toward the node point B. It is at these node points where the vibrator subunits are to be located.

The vibration subunit converts an external energy source such as electrical pneumatic or fluid e.g. hydraulic into mechanical motion. An example of a vibration subunit would be a piezoelectric actuator such as but not limited to the QuickPack QP10w model offered by Mide Technology Corporation. As an external energy source is converted by the vibrator subunit the vibrator subunit will move such that it will extend or contract. The phasing of this motion must be in phase with how the material is moving at these node points A and B. As is shown in and if the vibration subunit has the same motion as the material the material will vibrate and as resonance is reached in the material the material motion will be amplified such that it is greater than the motion of the vibrator subunit . This amplification is related to the type of properties of the material . Greatest amplification can be expected from a metallic material such as stainless steel.

In the vibrator subunit transmits its motion into the material by a shearing action at the interface between them. This interface which could take the form of epoxy adhesive must be chosen such that it efficiently transmits the vibration subunit motion into the material .

In the vibrator subunit transmits its motion into the material at two edges . As the vibrator subunit extends and contracts the forces at the edges will cause the material to vibrate with motion . In addition to the forces at the edges there will also be motion transmitted into the material through a shearing action between the vibrator subunit and the material . This application is most effective for a composite material in which the vibration subunit can be embedded in the composite material layup at the time of formation.

Unlike the need to impedance match the coupler and the material for an efficient system to be designed there is no impedance matching requirement between the material and the vibrator subunit . This is a result of the vibrator subunits being placed directly at the nodal points A and B and that the motion in the vibrator subunit is enforced on the material such that the material motion matches the motion of the vibrator subunit at all times. The number of vibrator subunits will depend on the material properties such as but not limited to damping voids and the ability to transmit vibration waves. A concept of the vibration subunits integrated into an airfoil structure is shown in without the external energy sources shown.

Vibration Subunits used as Debris Detectors If the vibration subunits utilize a piezoelectric crystal to convert electrical energy into mechanical motion it could also be attached to a pulser receiver and or a frequency spectrum electronic unit to be used as a debris detector as shown in and . The device would function as a debris detector by either detecting vibration pulse delays similar as described in or similar vibration spectrum frequency shifts as described in .

Vibration Subunits used as Structural Damage Detectors If the vibration subunits utilize a piezoelectric crystal to convert electrical energy into mechanical motion it could also be attached to a pulser receiver and or a frequency spectrum electronic unit to be used as a structural damage detector as shown in and . The device would function as a structural damage detector by either detecting vibration pulse delays similar as described in or similar vibration spectrum frequency shifts as described in .

Vibration Subunits used as Energy Harvesters If the vibration subunits utilize a piezoelectric crystal to convert electrical energy into mechanical motion then the reverse affect could also be utilized. If the material were to be flexed or vibrated from some external force such as air pressure then as the material deflects the vibration subunits will generate and electrical charge. This electrical charge could be stored in a capacitor type unit and used later to power the vibration subunits . Such an energy storage capability would be similar but not limited to the Volture Piezoelectric Energy Harvester devices as offered by Mide Technology Corporation or any other type of piezoelectric based devices.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

