---

title: Biometric adjustments for touchscreens
abstract: In some embodiments, a touchscreen may display a graphical user interface with one or more input options and may detect which input options are selected by a user by detecting a user's contact on the touchscreen. The system may determine a new graphical user interface configuration to increase the size and/or spacing of the input options. In some embodiments, one or more of the input options may be removed to increase the space available to increase the size of the other input options. In some embodiments, the system may maintain a history of input option use to determine which input options to remove. In some embodiments, the new graphical user interface configuration may include smaller (and/or additional) input options (e.g., if the contact areas are detected as consistently within the displayed input options).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08704775&OS=08704775&RS=08704775
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08704775
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081111
---
The present invention is directed to input systems and more particularly it is directed to touchscreen input systems.

Electronic devices such as mobile phones e.g. the iPhone Blackberry and Android phones global positioning system GPS devices personal digital assistants PDAs and computer systems including desktop and mobile computers may use touchscreens for input. Touchscreens allow users to use their finger or for example a stylus to press a displayed input option such as an on screen icon of a virtual keyboard . For example mobile phones may display a numeric keypad on a touchscreen and a user may enter a phone number by pressing on the touchscreen at positions corresponding to numbers on the displayed numeric keypad. Devices such as PDAs may include a touchscreen with a displayed alpha numeric keypad to receive text numbers etc. for entry of data into electronic appointment calendars contacts etc.

While touchscreens provide convenience they may be challenging to use if the displayed input options are too small for a particular user this may especially be the case with smaller touchscreens used in portable electronic devices . For example a user with large fingers or poor hand eye coordination may have difficulty pressing a specific input option without the user s fingertip overlapping another input option. Because users have different sized fingers and press down with different levels of force resulting in different contact areas on the touchscreen for different users it may be difficult to design a touchscreen that is suitable to a variety of users.

Various embodiments of systems methods and computer readable storage media for touchscreen input systems are disclosed. Touchscreens may be used to receive user input for a variety of electronic devices. The touchscreens may display a graphical user interface with one or more input options such as icons and may detect which input options are selected by a user by detecting a user s contact on the touchscreen. The user s contact with the touchscreen may result in a detectable contact area on the touchscreen. The system may detect a position of the contact area and make one or more biometric measurements of the contact area e.g. measurements of the size shape of the contact area . The position of the contact area may be correlated with the displayed input options to determine which input option the user selected. If the contact area is too large it may overlap multiple displayed input options and may therefore be difficult to accurately correlate to the input option the user intended to select. If the contact area is overlapping multiple input options the system may determine a new graphical user interface configuration to increase the size and or spacing of the input options. Other reasons for increasing the size and or spacing of the input options are also contemplated e.g. if the user input is being received slowly from the user or if the user is making multiple input mistakes . In some embodiments one or more of the input options may be removed to increase the space available to increase the size of the other input options. In some embodiments the system may maintain a history of input option use to determine which input options to remove. In some embodiments the new graphical user interface configuration may include smaller and or additional input options e.g. if the contact areas are detected as consistently within the displayed input options if the user s input is faster than a specified threshold if the user is not making multiple input mistakes etc .

In various embodiments determining a new graphical user interface configuration may include the system detecting the position of the contact area corresponding to a user s input and making biometric measurements of the contact area to determine a size shape of the contact area. In some embodiments the system may average a history of biometric measurements of at least two past detected contact areas. Determining a second graphical user interface configuration may include determining positions sizes and or spacings of the input options to better accommodate the detected contact areas.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments are shown by way of example in the drawings and are herein described in detail. It should be understood however that drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the invention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

In various embodiments touchscreens may include capacitive touchscreens including capacitive grid touchscreens resistive touchscreens surface acoustic wave touchscreens and infrared touchscreens. Touchscreens may detect touch by detecting changes in current sound waves capacitance etc. and determining a position corresponding to the change. For example resistive touchscreens may use multiple conductive layers that form an electronic connection when a user presses on the touchscreen and correspondingly presses two conductive layers together at a point . Surface acoustic wave touchscreens detect a touch by detecting a resulting change in ultrasonic waves passing over the touchscreen. Capacitive touchscreens may detect changes in the capacitance of a touchscreen resulting from the user s touch. Devices may use the change in current etc. to detect a position of a user s touch on the touchscreen .

In some embodiments device may be operable to detect when a user makes a mistake e.g. presses an input option that does not correspond to the input option the user intended to press . Mistakes may be detected through actions taken by the user to correct the mistake e.g. backspace key accepting a device provided correction option such as a correct spelling for a misspelled word etc . Other mistake determinations may also be used e.g. device may predict which inputs are mistakes based on predetermined predicted patterns of input . In the example shown in the device may determine that the user correctly pressed the intended input options to provide input for the mobile phone number for a new contact. For example the determination may have been based on the user not having to make corrections to the entered contact information. Conversely in and the user may have needed to backspace to correct the spelling of John . The backspace may have indicated the presence of one or more errors e.g. by comparing the corrected John to the originally entered Jphb the device may be able to determine that the user s contact areas for o and n were incorrectly entered by the user as p and b respectively. In some embodiments device may be able to detect the number of corrections and or where the corrections were applied and may use this information in determining the graphical user interface configuration e.g. by determining which input options need to be resized .

In some embodiments contact area corresponding to the user touch and biometric measurements of contact area e.g. size shape of contact area may be detected and used by device to determine a configuration for graphical user interface . The biometric measurements of contact area may correspond to the biometric measurements of the user s fingerprint. In some embodiments the configuration for graphical user interface may include which input options are to be displayed the size of input options the arrangement of input options etc. In some embodiments if device determines the user s contact area is too large for the current graphical user interface configuration device may provide a new graphical user interface configuration. For example as displayed in device may increase the size of input options e.g. see graphical user interface . In some embodiments the biometric measurements may also indicate to device which fingers the user is using for input. For example device may store characteristic shapes positions for thumb inputs forefinger inputs etc. and may compare these characteristic shapes positions to the shapes of contact areas detected. If device detects the user is using their thumbs for input device may propose implement a graphical user interface configuration that is easier for thumb inputs e.g. with larger input options more space between input options and or with more input options toward an edge of touchscreen and fewer toward the center .

In some embodiments device may also adjust other aspects of the display to accommodate the new graphical user interface configuration. For example device may reduce the size of output display area . Other accommodations may also be made e.g. less information may be displayed on output display output display may be made brighter may use a larger font etc . In some embodiments output display area may be on a separate screen or may be displayed on the same screen as graphical user interface . In some embodiments device may automatically adjust graphical user interface and other display characteristics. In some embodiments device may suggest a different graphical user interface and or display characteristics to a user who may then accept or reject the suggestions. For example device may display a new graphical user interface along with a message such as Keep new input interface Y N and wait for a user input. In some embodiments device may provide a reason for why a new graphical user interface is being suggested.

At device may display graphical user interface with a first graphical user interface configuration. For example a default configuration such as seen in and may be displayed. In some embodiments the user may select which input options should be displayed in the initial graphical user interface .

At device may detect contact area corresponding to a user s input on graphical user interface e.g. see contact area on input option . Information about contact area may be received by software interacting or at least listening to signals from touchscreen . For example the software may be part of an application programming interface API that acts as an interface between the detected signals from touchscreen indicative of contact area and the operating system. In some embodiments software objects may be attached to input options for display and the software objects may interact with the touchscreen signals to detect characteristics about contact area for adjusting the size position of the displayed input option . In some embodiments device may detect biometric measurements of contact area e.g. size shape . For example contact area may include an approximate width times an approximate height. In some embodiments the width and height may be measured in pixels the size of the pixels may depend on the screen resolution of touchscreen . Other measurements of contact area are also contemplated. In some embodiments device may measure only one dimension e.g. the width or height of contact area to use in the graphical user interface configuration determination. In some embodiments the biometric measurements may also indicate to device which fingers the user is using for input. For example device may store characteristic shapes for thumb inputs forefinger inputs etc. and may compare these characteristic shapes to the shapes of contact areas detected to determine if the detected contact areas have similar shapes as the stored characteristic shapes. Other finger determination algorithms are also contemplated.

At device may average a history of at least two past detected contact areas . For example device may average the past n touches to determine average characteristics for contact area e.g. n may be 10 20 50 100 etc . N may be a system default value and or may be user provided. Device may be made more sensitive by decreasing the value of n such that the average characteristics react more rapidly over time . In some embodiments device may change the graphical user interface configuration only after a minimum of n touches have occurred since touchscreen device was activated or for example after a minimum of n touches of recent activity occurring after a delay of greater than t seconds where t may be a default or user provided value such as 30 seconds . Characteristics may include an area calculation of the contact area the width height and or radius of the contact area a characteristic shape of the contact area e.g. approximately matches a thumbprint forefinger print stylus etc .

By using averaging device may adapt to different users. For example if a different user starts using touchscreen device device may adapt the graphical user interface configuration for the different user after the different user has touched device at least n times. Device may then adapt back to the original user s graphical user interface configuration after the original user touches touchscreen at least n subsequent times. Device may also adapt to different input characteristics from the same user. For example if the same user begins to have a larger contact area e.g. because the user is pressing down with greater force or is using different fingers device may adapt the graphical user interface configuration accordingly.

At device may determine a second graphical user interface configuration based at least partially on detected contact area . In some embodiments the second graphical user interface configuration may be determined based on the average contact area. In some embodiments device may determine an input option size that will encompass detected contact area or average detected contact area . For example device may make the area size of the input option herein the input option area factor contact area or input option area factor average contact area. The factor may be for example 1.2. Other factors are also contemplated e.g. 1.5 2 3 etc. . In some embodiments the factor may be a default value and or may be set by the user. In some embodiments the factor and or other characteristics about the graphical user interface configuration may be used for other applications. For example the factor and or input option spacings may be determined while the user is playing a game but the same factor and or input option spacings may be used during a word processing application. In some embodiments the factor may be adjusted between applications.

The input option area may be used to determine the configuration of various input options. For example the height and width for the corresponding area may be determined for example according to an equation such as 1.2 w w input option area where w is the width and 1.2 w is the height. Other equations are also contemplated e.g. 5 w w input option area . In some embodiments a factor may be determined and applied directly to only one dimension of input option . For example a factor may be determined based on contact area and applied to the width of input option and therefore in some embodiments the height may not be adjusted and vice versa . Other shapes are also contemplated. For example pi r r input option area where r is the radius of a circular input option e.g. input option .

In some embodiments the new graphical user interface configuration may include a repositioned input option . For example device may use the biometric measurements to determine which fingers are being used. If device detects the user is using their thumbs for input device may propose implement a graphical user interface configuration that is easier for thumb inputs e.g. with larger input options and or with more input options toward an edge of touchscreen and fewer toward the center . Device may also move input options for other reasons. For example if a user has mistakenly pressed one input option when another specific input option was intended device may move the intended input option to the position the user is anticipating input option to occupy. For example if a user presses the down arrow key when the left arrow key was intended as determined by analyzing how the user corrects his mistake device may switch the left arrow key and the down arrow key. In some embodiments device may propose new graphical user interface with the moved input option and or point out new graphical user interface to the user.

Other considerations may also affect the graphical user interface configuration determination. In some embodiments device may be able to detect the number of corrections and or where the corrections were applied and may use this information in determining the graphical user interface configuration. For example if the user is continuously correctly pressing the space bar e.g. input option the new graphical user interface configuration may not increase the size of the space bar even though for example the size of the other input options may be increased .

Speed of input may be another consideration for determining the new graphical user interface configuration. In some embodiments if the user input is being received slowly e.g. less than a threshold of x inputs minute where x is for example 70 inputs minute device may increase the size and or spacing of input options on graphical user interface . Other thresholds are also contemplated e.g. 30 inputs minute 120 inputs minute etc . The thresholds may be application sensitive. For example a fast paced gaming application may have a higher threshold e.g. 200 inputs minute and a contact entry application may have a lower threshold e.g. 30 inputs minute . In some embodiments device may adjust the input option size spacing based on the detected speed. For example a faster input speed may result in smaller input options than a slower input speed. In some embodiments input options of graphical user interface may be shrunk and or additional input options may be included if the input speed is above a threshold e.g. y inputs minute such as 120 inputs minute . In some embodiments device may consider a number of mistakes detected prior to decreasing the input option size.

In one embodiment a specialized graphics card or other graphics component may be coupled to the processor s . The graphics component may include a graphics processing unit GPU . Additionally the electronic device may include one or more imaging devices. The one or more imaging devices may include various types of raster based imaging devices such as an LCD display liquid crystal display . In one embodiment one or more display devices may be coupled to the processor and or graphics component for display of data images .

In one embodiment program instructions that may be executable by the processor s to implement aspects of the techniques described herein may be partly or fully resident within the memory at the electronic device at any point in time. The memory may be implemented using any appropriate medium such as any of various types of ROM or RAM e.g. DRAM SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. or combinations thereof. Any of a variety of storage devices may be used to store the program instructions in different embodiments including any desired type of persistent and or volatile storage devices such as individual disks disk arrays optical devices e.g. CD ROMs CD RW drives DVD ROMs DVD RW drives flash memory devices various types of RAM holographic storage etc. The storage may be coupled to the processor s through one or more storage or I O interfaces. In some embodiments the program instructions may be provided to the electronic device via any suitable computer readable storage medium including the memory and storage devices described above.

The electronic device may also include one or more I O interfaces such as a touchscreen interface incorporated in the display . In addition the electronic device may include one or more communication interfaces providing access to a computer system and or network. It should be noted that one or more components of the electronic device may be located remotely and accessed via the network. The program instructions may be implemented in various embodiments using any desired programming language scripting language or combination of programming languages and or scripting languages e.g. C C C Java Perl etc. The electronic device may also include numerous elements not shown in .

Although the embodiments above have been described in detail numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications.

