---

title: System, method, and user interface for a search engine based on multi-document summarization
abstract: A method for searching multiple documents on a computer system includes steps for sending a query to a system core where the query is passed to a search component for searching the documents. The system core in turn receives results from the search component indicating related documents to the query and passes to a summarization component a specified number of the results. The summarization component processes related documents corresponding to the specified number of results to produce a multi-document summary. The system core receives the summary from the summarization component. The multi-document summary is received from the system core.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08239358&OS=08239358&RS=08239358
owner: 
number: 08239358
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080130
---
The present Utility patent application claims priority benefit of the U.S. provisional application for patent Ser. No. 60 888 515 filed on Feb. 6 2007 under 35 U.S.C. 119 e . The contents of this related provisional application are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates generally to search technology. More particularly the invention relates to mechanisms of interaction between users and search engines and a combination of search technology with multi document text summarization technology.

The problem with current Internet search methods is the large amount of Web pages that the user typically has to go through in order to find the information he is looking for. When the user submits a query to a search engine the search engine returns a list of links to Web pages that are deemed relevant to the user s query. Unless the user has a very specific query he is presented with many pages each of which must be opened and read separately to access the information. Additional difficulty lies in the fact that with numerous search results the user is dealing with multiple authorities on the subject which are often contradictory and target different user audiences. Sometimes the contents of a page found by a search engine is irrelevant to the user s query altogether. In general the user spends a considerable time before finding satisfactory results.

Even after going through numerous pages the user is not guaranteed to find the information sought or to get an answer for the question the user has in mind. Using current methods the levels of user satisfaction with search results are low even for popular search engines. Similar issues with search can occur on the Intranet on an enterprise network on a standalone computer or when searching from a mobile communication device.

In view of the foregoing there is a need for improved techniques for providing relevant search results where the information is easily accessible to users.

To achieve the forgoing and other objects and in accordance with the purpose of the invention a system and method for a search engine based on multi document summarization is presented.

In one embodiment a method for searching multiple documents on a computer system is presented. The method includes steps for sending a query to a system core where the query is passed to a search component for searching the documents. The system core in turn receives results from the search component indicating related documents to the query and passes to a summarization component a specified number of the results. The summarization component processes related documents corresponding to the specified number of results to produce a multi document summary the system core receiving the summary from the summarization component. And steps for receiving from the system core the multi document summary. Other embodiments further include steps for sending to the system core parameters for the multi document summary receiving from the system core the results sending to the system core the selected number of results rating the summary and steps for manipulating the summary.

In another embodiment a method for searching multiple documents on a computer system is presented. The method includes steps for sending a query to a system core and steps for receiving from the system core a multi document summary. Yet another embodiment further includes steps for rating the summary.

In another embodiment a system for searching multiple documents on a computer system is presented. The system includes means for interfacing with a user means for searching the documents using a query from the user means for generating a multi document summary from results from the search component and means for presenting the multi document summary to the user. Other embodiments further include means for focusing the summary on a topic means for using dictionaries of words or phrases in the generating means means for selecting a language of the query means for clustering of semantic concepts extracted from the results means for the user to obtain a source document from the summary and means for selecting results to pass to the generating means. Still other embodiments further include means for specifying parameters of the summary means for scoring relevance of the summary means for manipulating the summary means for the user to rate the summary means for self learning and means for integrating the searching means and the generating means.

Other features advantages and object of the present invention will become more apparent and be more readily understood from the following detailed description which should be read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The present invention is best understood by reference to the detailed figures and description set forth herein.

Embodiments of the invention are discussed below with reference to the Figures. However those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the detailed description given herein with respect to these figures is for explanatory purposes as the invention extends beyond these limited embodiments. For example it should be appreciated that those skilled in the art will in light of the teachings of the present invention recognize a multiplicity of alternate and suitable approaches depending upon the needs of the particular application to implement the functionality of any given detail described herein beyond the particular implementation choices in the following embodiments described and shown. That is there are numerous modifications and variations of the invention that are too numerous to be listed but that all fit within the scope of the invention. Also singular words should be read as plural and vice versa and masculine as feminine and vice versa where appropriate and alternative embodiments do not necessarily imply that the two are mutually exclusive.

The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention provide a new type of search result in the form of an automatically generated text summary of substantially relevant search results. Within the summary each sentence or text fragment has one or more references such as but not limited to a bibliographical reference or web address to the Web page s from which the text fragment was extracted. In some embodiments the summary constitutes a digest on the topic specified by the user s query extracting and blending together significant and relevant aspects of the results. Ideally the user s query is satisfied and the user does not need to navigate individual sources however in some embodiments the user is able to navigate these individual sources if desired. Preferred embodiments are implemented for Internet searches however some embodiments may be implemented to address search issues in other locations such as but not limited to the Intranet an enterprise network a standalone computer when searching from a mobile communication device etc. In preferred embodiments the graphical user interface GUI is in the form of a button on the main search engine page and or on the search engine results page with a command to display a text summary of results. Once the user clicks this button the summary is produced and displayed for the user.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention comprise the following components search means a multi document summarization engine and a software program. A system implementing these components may have a human interface or an application programming interface API . The search means may be a search engine meta search engine vertical search engine or other means of searching that accepts the user s query matches the query against a set of documents in a search engine index and returns a list of matching search results. The search engine may be proprietary or commercially available. Depending on the particular embodiment the search engine may be on the Internet the Intranet an enterprise network a local area network LAN or a standalone computer or server. In preferred embodiments the multi document summarization engine analyzes the search results returned by the search engine and produces a text summary of the results. Those skilled in the art will recognize in accordance with the present teachings that there are a variety of algorithms of multi document summarization that may be used in embodiments of the present invention. The software program in preferred embodiments integrates the search engine the summarization engine and user interface actions such as but not limited to buttons to request the summary and to display the summary save buttons etc. This software program is herein referred to as the system core. Those skilled in the art will recognize in accordance with the present teachings that the exact mechanism for the implementation of the system core can vary as long as the components are integrated in accordance with embodiments of the present invention.

The summary of results may satisfy the user s query fully or partially depending on the particular embodiment or system settings. The summary obtained from preferred embodiments may contain answers that the user was looking for or at least give the user a good overview of the information contained in the document set. From the summary the user can see which of the documents are better suited to his query and may navigate to those documents directly from the summary.

Multi document summarization systems are known to those skilled in the art. There is a great variety of algorithms used by different systems targeting various domains of content and producing different quality of summaries. In general a multi document summarization system reads each document in the set of documents to summarize analyzes the syntax and semantics of the documents extracts key semantic concepts from the document matches sentences or text fragments to the concepts being extracted and constructs a summary comprising sentences or text fragments taken out of different documents in the set of documents to summarize. Those skilled in the art will recognize in accordance with the present teachings that the exact algorithm for summarization may vary greatly between various systems. For example without limitation in some embodiments the summarization algorithm may be based on natural language processing NLP analyzing the text of the search results identifying key concepts or text fragments and scoring these concepts or text fragments using various factors such as but not limited to relevance. In some embodiments the summarization algorithm may consider document structure document format metatags or other types of data associated with the search results when identifying and scoring the key concepts or text fragments on relevance to the query. In the preferred embodiment the key concepts and text fragments are organized in order of decreasing relevance however in alternate embodiments other factors such as but not limited to the position of a concept or text fragment on the source page may also be taken into account. Other factors that the system may take into account when organizing the concepts and text fragments can be predefined ranking of concepts dynamically calculated ranking of concepts based on some criteria ranking of the document predefined or dynamically calculated metadata associated with the concepts or documents etc. A multi document summarization system aims to produce a summary that looks like a coherent text to the user or to give the user a good overview of the set of documents.

It is expected that the users quality expectations from a summary of loosely related documents of different nature format and target audience as is also typical for the Internet are generally lower than of a coherent linear text written by a single author for a homogeneous audience. Hence for many types of queries it is expected that users particularly Internet users will prefer a summary even of an imperfect quality to numerous links to Web pages. If the user is not satisfied by the summary the preferred embodiment also provides conventional search results alongside the summary as another option. It is further understood that there are certain types of user queries where a summary is not sensible or not possible to produce. There are also types of queries where the user is not interested in getting a summary on the topic of the query but rather wants to locate a particular Web page. These searches may not benefit from embodiments of the present invention. However a great number of other types of searches will.

The preferred embodiment combines a search engine and a multi document summarization engine in a way that is not currently available. Traditionally search results have been perceived as a list of documents or links to documents. As for summarization there are some search systems that provide individual summaries of search results which is different from multi document summarization. However the preferred embodiment of the present invention produces a summary of multiple search results and treats the said summary as the main result of the user s search.

In the present embodiment the page comprises three additions to the conventional display of search results summary request button a text fragments field and a checkbox for each search result in search results list . In the present embodiment summary request button is in the top right section of the screen and reads Get text summary of results . If the user clicks summary request button a summary of the results displayed that are displayed on this page is generated by the system. In alternate embodiments summary request buttons may have various designs with various different commands on the buttons and may be located in various places on the search page and on various pages of the search engine. For example without limitation a summary request button may be placed on the main page of the search engine as well as on the results page in which case the step of displaying the conventional search results can be bypassed altogether and the user can be taken directly to the summary. Text fragments field indicates the number of text fragments or sentences to be included in the summary and may be specified by the user in text fragments field . In this example only six sentences are requested in order for the display of the summary to fit on a single page. Checkboxes are located next to each search result in search results list enabling the user to specify which of the search results are to be included in the summary. In the present embodiment a default setting includes all of the search results in the summary however alternate embodiments may have different default settings.

Also the user has an option of removing some of the sources by deselecting checkboxes which are next to each source in source list and regenerating summary . When summary is regenerated the system only uses the sources from source list that remain selected. The user may also change the number of sentences in summary by changing the number in a text fragments field . In alternate embodiments the user may have different options for controlling the length of the summary for example without limitation a setting to set the overall number of pages or a setting to set the length of the summary as a percentage of the total amount of text in the sources. In the present embodiment a modify summary button is used to regenerate summary . Also the user can click a save summary button to save summary in a file on a local or network drive. In an alternate embodiment all original sources can be displayed allowing the user to request a modified summary that would use the sources specified by the user.

A group of radio buttons enabling the user to control the presentation of sources within summary is presented. The setting displayed in the present example is a hide sources setting which indicates that each sentence in summary is not followed by a reference to its corresponding source. The present embodiment also comprises a show sources setting and a group sentences per source setting . Show sources setting displays the source of each sentence after the sentence within summary as shown by way of example in and group sentence per source setting groups the sentences in summary by source and lists this source after each group of sentences. Alternate embodiments may have various other features and settings for the user interface such as but not limited to a language setting for the query a rating feature a print feature a save feature a feature enabling users to share summaries a comment feature a voting feature etc. Other user interface setting may include allowing the user to refine the original query for example by entering a different wording or by specifying the concepts that would modify the topic of the query turn on or off the display of relevance scores marking some sentences in the summary for removal and generating a summary without them. The text summary can also be overlayed with graphics video and other types of media for presentation purposes.

The fragments of text comprising summary are ordered according to their semantics as opposed to their order on the source Web pages. Therefore even though some text fragments are sourced from the same Web page they are generally not sequentially presented in summary . The exact mechanism of ordering of text fragments is not specified by the present embodiment however the example illustrates that the system summarized a set of documents as a whole as opposed to concatenating individual summaries. Furthermore some embodiments of the present invention may specify how to order the text fragments for example without limitation alphabetically by source by relevance etc.

In step the multi document summarization engine receives the query and the links to the documents. Then the multi document summarization engine parses each individual document to extract key semantic concepts and corresponding text fragments or sentences and performs multi document summarization of the documents based on the extracted concepts producing a text summary representing a digest of the search results. The summary may comprise key semantic concepts text fragments or sentences matching these concepts or a combination of the two. The user query may be taken into account to focus the summary on a particular topic using means such as but not limited to NLP or metadata to help determine relevance of the results. In the present embodiment if the system is unable to use the query for example without limitation if the query is unrecognized by the system empty or not passed to the system the system generates a summary of key semantic concepts in the documents without focusing on a particular topic. In an alternate embodiment if the system is unable to use the query the system produces a summary based on a topic derived by the system that is based on predefined or built in criteria or based on additional parameters. In other alternate embodiments if the system is unable to use the query an error message may be sent to the user that may ask the user to change the query. A relevance score may be calculated for each concept or text fragment and this relevance score may or may not be displayed to the user in the summary and may be used by the system for learning.

In the present embodiment content dictionaries comprising words phrases or concepts related to a particular content domain may be used by the multi document summarization engine. The words phrases and concepts in content dictionaries may be characteristic for particular information domains or may be not pertinent to the content domain enabling the multi document summarization engine to adjust its algorithm to better suit the particular information domain. Rules that help the system to understand and classify the content may be used. Content dictionaries may be static dynamically populated by users or administrators or accumulated by the system through self learning features of the system. Other information that may be used by the self learning features includes without limitation feedback from users or otherwise and relevance scores. Alternate embodiments may not comprise self learning features.

In step of the present embodiment the summary is returned to the system core. In step the system core displays the summary to the user. In step the user can perform various functions such as but not limited to save the summary on a local or network drive print the summary edit the summary if the system core provides a text editor and navigate through the search engine to the individual sources. If the user is satisfied at this point the user may end the process. Otherwise the user can rate the summary based on criteria such as but not limited to satisfaction and quality and pass the feedback to the summarization engine in step or may request a modified summary in step . The user may have the option to rate the overall summary individual text fragments or the source documents returned by the system in step . This feedback may be used by the self learning feature of the system. The user can also modify parameters such as but not limited to the length of the summary the way references are represented the sources that should or should not be included in the summary or any other parameters exposed by the system by requesting a modified summary in step and the system returns to step to perform another multi document summarization of the documents using the new parameters.

In an alternate embodiment a search engine is integrated with the summarization engine into one system. This would enable the system to perform a summarization step on each individual document as the document is added to the data store of the system rather than during the multi document summarization process. Therefore the summarization engine in this case does not need to repeat this summarization step in step thus making the whole operation much faster. In this embodiment both the search engine and the summarization engine have access to the documents for example without limitation through a database or file server.

In the alternate embodiment the system may be implemented without a separate system core. For example the search engine may be calling the summarization engine passing the summarization engine the documents. In this case the search engine implementation would comprise the system core. Alternatively the summarization engine may be calling the search engine receiving back the documents to summarize. In this case the summarization engine implementation would comprise the system core.

The preferred embodiment described above comprises a search engine integrated with a multi document summarization engine. However an alternate embodiment of the present invention comprises an Internet directory integrated with a multi document summarization engine instead of a search engine. An Internet directory comprises a hierarchy of categories that the user browses. At the lower levels of the hierarchy the user is presented with a list of matching documents or Web pages which may be processed by the multi document summarization engine. In this case steps and of the process previously described are not applicable. Instead the user browses the Internet directory until he finds a page that contains links to the documents pertinent to his topic of interest. Those links are then passed by the system core in step to the multi document summarization engine. For example without limitation a user who is searching for legal advice in a Web directory for example without limitation About.com navigates down to a particular area of his legal issue and requests a summary of the documents listed on that level of the directory. The summary serves as an overview of the key concepts related to the user s issue.

Another alternate embodiment of the present invention may be implemented in a question answering system. A question answering system accepts a user s question. The question is then processed by the question answering system and a number of possible responses or articles are identified. The system then passes the results to a multi document summarization engine which produces an overall summary of the results as the answer to the user s question. A knowledge base residing on a computer network for example without limitation the Internet the Intranet or a LAN or on a standalone computer or server may be implemented in another alternate embodiment. The implementation of a knowledgebase is similar to the implementation of a question answering system.

In the present embodiment the process begins at step where the user submits a query. In step the question answering system performs a search in answer data store and produces a list of links to documents. In step a system core passes the search results and the query to a multi document summarization engine. In step the multi document summarization engine performs a multi document summarization of the results as previously described in accordance with step . The summary is returned to the system core in step and in step the system core displays the summary to the user as an answer to the query. In step the user may save or print the summary or may navigate the individual sources cited in the summary. If the user is satisfied with the summary the process ends. If the user wishes the user may refine the query or modify the parameters of the search and or summarization in step . The system then returns to step to perform the multi document summarization again using the refined query and or new parameters.

In an alternate embodiment a computer program installed on a standalone computer or a LAN server calls a search engine via an API. This computer program then receives the links to the documents and passes the links to the summarization engine. Then the computer program receives the summary from the summarization engine and displays the summary to the user.

In another alternate embodiment a computer program installed on a mobile communications device calls a server application passing along a query from the user. This server application then passes the query to a search engine and receives links to documents that the search engine finds as results. The application then passes the links to the summarization engine receives the summary and returns the summary to the mobile device to display to the user.

In yet another alternate embodiment an application may be implemented as a computer program running on a standalone computer. In this embodiment the computer program performs a search on the local computer drives or network drives and summarizes the found search results on the same computer.

In yet another alternate embodiment a web page or number of web pages comprising a web application calls a search engine and receives back links to documents. Then the web page passes the links to a summarization engine receives the summary from the summarization engine and displays the summary to a user. In another alternate embodiment a web service rather than a web page may be used to call the web application that interacts with the search engine and summarization engine. In this embodiment once the web service receives the summary the web service returns the summary to its caller application to peruse the summary in any desired fashion.

In yet other alternate embodiments an Internet browser plug in or add on may be used. In these embodiments the Internet browser plug in or add on may either call on a search engine to receive links to documents or screen scrape the results of a search on a Web page to receive links to documents. The Internet browser plug in or add on then sends the links to a summarization engine receives back the summary and displays the summary to a user.

CPU may also be coupled to an interface that connects to one or more input output devices such as such as video monitors track balls mice keyboards microphones touch sensitive displays transducer card readers magnetic or paper tape readers tablets styluses voice or handwriting recognizers or other well known input devices such as of course other computers. Finally CPU optionally may be coupled to an external device such as a database or a computer or telecommunications or internet network using an external connection as shown generally at which may be implemented as a hardwired or wireless communications link using suitable conventional technologies. With such a connection it is contemplated that the CPU might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the method steps described in the teachings of the present invention.

Those skilled in the art will readily recognize in accordance with the teachings of the present invention that any of the foregoing steps and or system modules may be suitably replaced reordered removed and additional steps and or system modules may be inserted depending upon the needs of the particular application and that the systems of the foregoing embodiments may be implemented using any of a wide variety of suitable processes and system modules and is not limited to any particular computer hardware software middleware firmware microcode and the like.

It will be further apparent to those skilled in the art that at least a portion of the novel method steps and or system components of the present invention may be practiced and or located in location s possibly outside the jurisdiction of the United States of America USA whereby it will be accordingly readily recognized that at least a subset of the novel method steps and or system components in the foregoing embodiments must be practiced within the jurisdiction of the USA for the benefit of an entity therein or to achieve an object of the present invention. Thus some alternate embodiments of the present invention may be configured to comprise a smaller subset of the foregoing novel means for and or steps described that the applications designer will selectively decide depending upon the practical considerations of the particular implementation to carry out and or locate within the jurisdiction of the USA. For any claims construction of the following claims that are construed under 35 USC 112 6 it is intended that the corresponding means for and or steps for carrying out the claimed function also include those embodiments and equivalents as contemplated above that implement at least some novel aspects and objects of the present invention in the jurisdiction of the USA. For example without limitation the search engine and the multi document summarization engine and the processes performed by these components may be performed and or located outside of the jurisdiction of the USA while the remaining method steps and or system components of the foregoing embodiments are typically required to be located performed in the US for practical considerations.

Having fully described at least one embodiment of the present invention other equivalent or alternative methods of providing multi document summarization of search results according to the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The invention has been described above by way of illustration and the specific embodiments disclosed are not intended to limit the invention to the particular forms disclosed. For example the particular implementation of the summary may vary depending upon the particular type of layout used. The summaries described in the foregoing were directed to implementations where the summary is a list of sentences or text fragments however similar techniques are to layout the summary as a paragraph a list of bullet points an outline etc. Implementations of the present invention with various summary layouts are contemplated as within the scope of the present invention. The invention is thus to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the following claims.

