---

title: Method for facilitating chemical supplier transactions
abstract: A business-to-business transaction clearinghouse integrates the traditional point-to-point business supply chain at the clearinghouse. The clearinghouse provides cost effective access to a wide variety of members and includes value-added services. Members of the clearinghouse can include trading members, members that help the trading members ship their products, and banking members. The clearinghouse facilitates business among the trading members by providing a single point of contact for all transactions. The clearinghouse can be specific to an industry, such as the chemical industry. Multiple industry specific clearinghouses may form a network clearinghouses to effectively create one larger and more general business-to-business electronic commerce community.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07945498&OS=07945498&RS=07945498
owner: Supply Chain Connect, LLC
number: 07945498
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080905
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 493 794 filed 28 Jan. 2000 . The entire disclosure of this priority application is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates generally to electronic commerce and more specifically to business to business electronic commerce.

In the business world transaction costs associated with the buying and selling of products and raw materials can be significant. A single sale often requires a number of communications between the purchasing and selling entities each requiring employee time to process record and approve the communications.

As an example of a typical business transaction consider the situation in which a first company wishes to purchase a quantity of chemicals from a chemical supplier. A typical supply chain process for this type of transaction is illustrated in . The supply chain includes a number of component transactions between the purchasing company and its supplier . These component transactions and an example of the documents associated with them are listed in box . Supporting third party services such as banking and shipping services are also involved in the transaction.

The purchasing company may begin by making inquiries of its current suppliers to determine which one can supply the chemicals at the best price. This step often entails a lengthy request for proposal RFP process and many purchaser supplier visits. The supplier and the purchaser agree on the specifications of the desired chemical and on the handling of any regulatory requirements. A purchase order is then issued by the purchasing company to officially place the order. The purchase order is processed and acknowledged by the supplier.

Actually shipping the chemical may involve a significant logistical effort. For example a third party shipping company is selected and in connection with shipping the chemicals a shipping note and a bill of lading are generated and given to the shipping company. Additional documents such as a certificate of analysis which verifies that the purchased chemicals are the ones ordered and a material safety data sheet which includes handling and safety information for the chemical may also be generated by the supplier and transmitted to the purchaser.

Arrival of the chemicals at the purchaser triggers the creation of additional documents such as a delivery receipt an invoice and eventually payment by the purchasing company to the supplier for the delivered chemicals. The conventional supply chain process can thus be cumbersome labor intensive and relatively expensive.

A network of purchasers and suppliers such as those illustrated above can be conceptualized as a point to point network of trading entities. Such a network is illustrated graphically in . Each trading entity communicates directly with other entities in the network via communication lines . Communication lines represent for example communication by phone facsimile mail or EDI messages described below .

In an effort to automate records relating to purchasing and selling many companies use enterprise resource planning ERP systems. ERP refers to a broad set of activities supported by multi module application software that help a business manage the important parts of its operations including product planning parts purchasing maintaining inventories interacting with suppliers providing customer service and tracking orders. An ERP system can also include application modules for the finance and human resources aspects of a business.

Although an ERP may help to automate a company internally ERP systems of various companies are often not compatible with one another. Accordingly documents that are to be exchanged with outside companies are often printed as hard copies transmitted to the other company over communication lines in the form of for example a facsimile and manually entered in the other companies ERP system. Thus although purchasers and suppliers may be automated internally their systems are usually isolated from an ability to communicate with each other. Thus despite automation at both companies a manual gulf over communication lines still exists between companies. Companies traverse the gulf between systems by manual processes such as mail email fax meetings and phone calls.

One attempt to take advantage of computerized ERP systems and to eliminate the manual gulf between companies is the electronic data interchange EDI protocol which is a standard format for exchanging business commerce data. In an EDI exchange automated systems such as ERP systems at two of entities exchange EDI messages over communication lines . An EDI message contains a string of data elements each of which represents a singular fact such as a price product model number and so forth separated by delimiters. The entire string is called a data segment. One or more data segments framed by a header and trailer form a transaction set which is the EDI unit of transmission equivalent to a message . A transaction set often consists of what would usually be contained in a typical business document or form such as a purchase order. The EDI standard is available from the Data Interchange Standards Association of Virginia.

EDI however has not been widely adopted. It has proven to be relatively expensive to install and maintain particularly for small companies. Further as illustrated in EDI only provides point to point automation and does nothing for integrating suppliers and customers in a business community. As a result EDI is presently only used by a small fraction of the companies involved in business to business commerce.

Thus there is a need in the art to automate the supply chain of businesses in a way that is both efficient and widely available to a large number of member companies.

Systems and methods consistent with the principles of the present invention address the needs identified above by integrating the traditional point to point business supply chain at a clearinghouse.

More particularly one aspect of the present invention is directed to a system for facilitating business to business transactions. The system comprises a network coupled to a plurality of member businesses and a clearinghouse computer server. The clearinghouse is associated with the members and coupled to the members through the network. The clearinghouse receives and forwards electronic messages transmitted between at least two of the plurality of members the messages corresponding to communications in a business to business transaction that relate to initiation of the transaction and at least one of order fulfillment for the transaction and payment processing for the transaction.

A second aspect of the present invention is directed to a computer network comprising a plurality of trading members at least one banking member at least one shipping member and a clearinghouse. The clearinghouse is coupled to the trading members the banking member and the shipping member. Communications between the trading members banking members and shipping members is routed through the clearinghouse and the clearinghouse includes software components for managing the services provided by the banking and shipping members to the trading members.

Another aspect of the present invention is a method that includes generating messages relating to business to business commerce transactions at an enterprise resource planning computer system including generating messages relating to the management of supply chain activities of a company the messages corresponding to communications in a business to business transaction. The method further includes converting the messages generated by the enterprise resource planning computer system into extensible markup language XML messages and transmitting the converted messages over the Internet to a clearinghouse that processes the converted messages and provides services related to order fulfillment for the transaction and payment processing for the transaction.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings that illustrate the embodiments of the present invention. Other embodiments are possible and modifications may be made to the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Therefore the following detailed description is not meant to limit the invention. Rather the scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

As described herein a business to business transaction clearinghouse integrates the traditional point to point business supply chain at the clearinghouse. The clearinghouse provides cost effective access to a wide variety of member computer systems and includes value added services. The clearinghouse facilitates business among trading partners by providing a single point of contact for all transactions. Any member of the clearinghouse can conduct business with any other member by sending the transaction through the clearinghouse.

Processors may either accept program instructions from a computer storage device e.g. optical or magnetic disk or from network . BIOS code i.e. computer instructions causing the system to implement the disclosed techniques may be programmed into a non volatile portion of computer memory . The BIOS may be programmed when the system is manufactured or may be later delivered via a computer readable medium.

Processors can be any of a number of well known computer processors such as processors from Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. More generally clearinghouse may be implemented using any of well known computing platforms designed to interact with devices on the network.

To facilitate cost effective and universal communication with clearinghouse clearinghouse preferably communicates with each of trading members using a common standard such as the XML standard. XML Extensible Markup Language is a well known descriptive language that allows for the transmission of information over intranets or the Internet that includes both formatting information and information describing the data. In comparison to EDI XML is generally considered to be easier to learn and program and requires the user to invest less in computer hardware.

Because trading member may already have invested significantly in an ERP system and in EDI processing clearinghouse interacts with member without requiring member to revamp its existing computing infrastructure. Instead translation server is connected to ERP EDI computer system s of member . Translation server translates EDI or member proprietary messages received from computer system into XML and forwards the XML data to clearinghouse . Similarly translation server converts XML data received from clearinghouse to a form understandable by computer . Translation server is customized to operate with ERP EDI computer system s . In this manner by using translation servers to convert supply chain information from a member specific format to a format understood by clearinghouse multiple trading members with disparate computer systems can all communicate with one another simply by installing a single translation server.

Computer systems that convert EDI messages to XML data are known in the art. One such system is available from XMLSolutions Corporation of McLean Va.

Alternatively the trading member s internal computer system may be originally designed to operate using the message format of clearinghouse . In this situation translation server would not be necessary. Additionally as one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize although translation server is illustrated as a stand alone computer server it could equivalently be implemented as software in the member s computer system .

In contrast to trading member trading member does not have an automated transaction processing system. However trading member may still communicate with clearinghouse using a web browser . As previously mentioned information transmitted in XML can include both formatting information and descriptive information describing the data. The formatting information allows web browser to display the contents of the XML document. XML documents may be interactive allowing trading member to input and transmit information to clearinghouse .

Member connects to clearinghouse in a manner similar to trading member . A translation server converts information from the members ERP system and interfaces ERP with clearinghouse . Web browser may concurrently be used by member to interact with clearinghouse . In particular translation server may forward information relating to functionality not implemented in ERP to web browser .

Clearinghouse provides a number of electronic commerce services to its members. These services are implemented by software running at clearinghouse . is a diagram graphically illustrating examples of some of the services that clearinghouse may implement. The illustrated services include 

Trading members may select a combination of these services to provide an optimized solution for their particular situation. For example one member may initially decide to use only the shipment tracking functions while another member uses order processing shipment tracking and business intelligence.

The services provided by the clearinghouse may be integrated so that the more services a member uses the greater the value. For example if a member uses both order processing and shipment tracking the member may be able to link directly from the order to shipment tracking information.

Order processing component automates the processing of documents traditionally associated with commercial purchases by storing and forwarding electronic versions of these documents to the network members. A non exhaustive list of the documents processed by order processing component include 1 order inquiries 2 purchase orders 3 blanket purchase orders 4 scheduling agreements 5 order acknowledgements 5 shipping notices 6 bills of lading 7 delivery receipts 8 invoices and 9 invoice payments. Other industry specific documents may also be processed by the order processing component . For example in the chemical industry documents such as certificates of analysis and material safety data sheets may also be transmitted between the parties through clearinghouse .

An exemplary transaction will now be described with reference to . As shown trading members and each having internal ERPs and and translation servers and are connected to clearinghouse . Member in addition to ERP system uses an EDI system . Members and may also have other specialized hardware or software such as MSDS computer on which material safety data sheets are stored or laboratory information management system LIMS at which laboratory related research or analysis software executes. Companies that provide third party support such as a bank and a shipping and logistics company are also members in the network.

Assume that trading member the customer wishes to purchase gallons of a chemical from member the supplier . Trading member enters the information for a purchase order for the chemicals into ERP which generates the purchase order and transmits it to translation server Step . The clearinghouse receives the order reads the supplier information and sends the order to member . At member the purchase order is translated into an EDI message by translation server and then forwarded to the supplier s EDI system and ERP .

Member upon accepting the order sends an order acknowledgement message ORAK back through the clearinghouse to member Step . If a material safety data sheet MSDS is required for the order it may also be similarly sent through clearinghouse Step . If ERP is not configured to handle MSDSs it may be stored at an alternate computer or viewed via web browser .

On the shipping date member sends a shipping notice to member through clearinghouse Step . The shipping notice may be automatically generated by ERP when it receives input indicating shipment of the order. With the shipping notice documents such as the certificate of analysis Step and the invoice Step may also be sent.

In general SMI services refer to a suppliers monitoring of the inventory of its customer and automatically shipping products to the customer as the inventory is depleted. Clearinghouse facilitates these functions by providing customers the ability to automatically transmit the necessary inventory information from its ERP system to the clearinghouse and or the supplier. Trading members who previously had an in house SMI system can fully automate the transfer of SMI related data to their suppliers.

As an example of an SMI system assume that trading member the supplier provides SMI services to trading member the customer . Members and or may begin by setting up an account for member at the clearinghouse by providing the SMI component with the initial account information such as the products being managed the locations of the products the minimum order quantity and the product reorder criteria e.g. the inventory depletion level at which to reorder product . Member periodically updates SMI component with SMI related data such as inventory information and inventory forecasts. When the updated information provided by member meets the reorder criteria set in SMI component e.g. the actual inventory level is below the reorder point SMI component transmits a purchase order to member . Member may then fill the order.

By locating the SMI functionality at the clearinghouse the customer s inventory information does not need to be transmitted to the supplier. Accordingly because clearinghouse is a trusted third party customers may feel more secure that their confidential inventory related information is not compromised.

As an alternative implementation of SMI component instead of notifying the supplier when it is time to resupply product SMI component may simply pass the inventory data to the supplier. In this implementation the supplier decides based on the received invoice information when to resupply the product.

Multiple shipping and logistics companies may provide shipping services to members of clearinghouse . Shipment tracking component communicates with these companies to allow members to track the shipment of their products. Shipment information can be provided by shipment tracking component to the members by for example requiring the shipping companies such as shipping member to periodically update shipment information stored in component . If a shipment is falling behind schedule shipment tracking component may automatically send a message informing the appropriate trading member of the tardiness of the shipment.

Alternatively shipment tracking component may wait for shipment tracking requests from a trading member such as member before requesting the shipment tracking information from shipping member .

Trading members using the order processing component of clearinghouse may preferably check the shipment status from any order related document. If they do not use the order processing component they may be assigned a shipment tracking number used to query shipment tracking component .

In addition to the trading members and the shipping and logistics companies companies in banking related businesses may join the clearinghouse network and provide members integrated banking related services. For example invoices sent by one member may be automatically copied by banking component to the banking member used by the receiver of the invoice. This is illustrated graphically in in which the invoice from member step is transmitted through clearinghouse to both trading member and banking member . At trading member s instruction banking member may electronically pay trading member Step .

A number of value added services may be offered by the member banks. A non exhaustive list of such services include 

 1 Summary invoicing. Banking member may prepare summary invoices such as a monthly summary invoice for its members.

 2 Consolidation of transactions. A member s transactions over a period may be consolidated. The member would then receive one payment or debit representing the net of its sales and its purchases in the network.

 3 Purchase of receivables. Banking members may buy account receivables from members that do not wish to carry their receivables. Multiple banking members may bid for the account receivables of the trading member. Because information related to the invoice and payment record of vendors is processed by clearinghouse banking members bidding for account receivables can form intelligent estimates of the value of the receivables. For example if a banking member knows that all the vendors in a particular member s account receivables have a good credit history the bank may be willing to bid close to the nominal face value of the receivables.

 4 Automated Payments. All payments made by banking members from one member of the network to another member may be made on the specific day specified by the member.

In summary integrating banks such as banking member into clearinghouse provides trading members the ability to electronically pay and receive payment notifications through their existing computer systems. Moreover the banking members can use the integration provided by the clearinghouse to provide value added services to the trading members.

By virtue of its position as a hub of the electronic commerce activities of its members clearinghouse contains a significant amount of information that may be useful to its members. For example the average selling price of a certain chemical may be a valuable piece of information to members that buy and sell that chemical.

Business intelligence component mines aggregate data relating to electronic commerce through the clearinghouse. Such data may include price information service guidelines information on new markets and industry information e.g. total sales of product groups by region . Additionally access to industry information such as pricing models price volume elasticity curves and regional use information may also be provided by business intelligence component . In general any information or aggregation of information passing through clearinghouse may be mined by business intelligence component and provided to the network members. One restricting factor on the information provided to the members is the practical limitation of not divulging confidential or proprietary information.

Two areas in which intelligently mined aggregated data may be particularly useful to members of clearinghouse include supply chain sourcing scorecards and company specific business market data.

Supply chain scorecards relate to member feedback regarding the performance of the members. Scorecard information provided by business intelligence component may include information such as 1 integrated supply chain data 2 order product service quality metrics 3 order to arrival on time reporting i.e. member feedback relating to whether orders from the member tend to arrive on time and 4 customer supplier non conformance process and systems i.e. member feedback relating to whether members conform to the agreed terms of their transactions .

Further business intelligence component may provide members access to their own transactions. The members may use such information by periodically importing it into an in house business intelligence system. Members without such an in house system may view the information from business intelligence component through a web browser.

Product catalog component implements a searchable catalog of products being sold by the trading members. In particular product catalog component stores product information uploaded by the trading members. Information in product catalog may then be searched by other members of the network.

Catalog searches through catalog component may be viewed by the trading members through an interface such as a web browser or after translation by a translation server at the members ERP system or other member computer system.

Logistics procurement component assists members in finding the best shipping company and shipping method for any particular transaction. Shipping members may update procurement component with their rates and with the availability of their shipping lines. The trading members can then use procurement component to compare shipping costs and delivery schedules of competing shippers to find the best match for each shipment. Shipping members benefit from procurement component by having a large and easily accessible market for their services.

As an alternative to the shipping members pre entering their shipping rates into procurement component the shipping members may view shipment requests input by trading members and in response submit shipment proposals to the trading members.

Certain industries such as the chemical industry are highly regulated by federal and state agencies. Laws such as the Clean Air Act or the Toxic Substance Control Act or regulations promulgated by agencies acting pursuant to a law may require complying companies to file periodic e.g. daily weekly or monthly or event specific reports with the agencies. For example the EPA or other agencies may require reports relating to the volume of certain chemicals sold bio accumulation exposure indexes community right to known issues emission credit reporting and product registration.

Regulatory reporting component enables clearinghouse members to efficiently and reliably handle their regulatory reporting obligations. In particular a member wishing to use regulatory reporting component may set up an account in regulatory component including information such as when the report should be sent and the information required in the report. To help facilitate this process regulatory reporting component may include a variety of pre stored templates each including the basic information necessary for a particular regulatory report.

After setting up an account the member simply transmits the information required in the report to clearinghouse either automatically from the ERP or manually from a web browser. At clearinghouse regulatory reporting component saves the information and when appropriate generates the regulatory report. Clearinghouse may then transmit the report to the appropriate regulatory agency.

As previously described clearinghouse helps to initiate transactions between trading members by providing a universal infrastructure through which buyers can communicate with their suppliers. Product catalog component further facilitates the initiation of transactions by providing an electronic catalog of products. Product auction component gives buyers and sellers another option to initiate transactions.

Through auction component sellers may put products up for auction. In particular auction component allows sellers to input information relating to the product they wish to sell and allows buyers to input bids on these products. One of the benefits of auction component is that it gives sellers the opportunity to quickly sell excess capacity thus helping them to optimize their capacity schedules.

In addition to facilitating efficient transactions between members clearinghouse may function as an industry specific portal through which members may receive or generate industry related news and information. For example content stored by industry news component may be transmitted to members at their request and viewed at a web browser.

As described above clearinghouse integrates a variety of members possibly each using disparate computer systems into a single business community. The clearinghouse assists in the matching of buyers and sellers order fulfillment and payment processing. Clearinghouse functions to automate the cumbersome supply chain traditionally followed by businesses and provides value added services to its members.

One implementation of clearinghouse is a clearinghouse specific to the chemical industry. In this situation functions unique to the chemical industry such as transmitting certificates of analysis and material safety data sheets MSDS are provided by the clearinghouse. A more general clearinghouse a clearinghouse specific to other industries or a network of industry specific clearinghouses may also be implemented.

It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments as described above may be implemented in many different embodiments of software firmware and hardware in the entities illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement the present invention is not limiting of the present invention. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiments were described without specific reference to the specific software code or specialized hardware components it being understood that a person of ordinary skill in the art would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the embodiments based on the description herein.

The foregoing description of preferred embodiments of the present invention provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible consistent with the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. The scope of the invention is defined by the claims and their equivalents.

