---

title: Network-based application late binding
abstract: The claimed subject matter provides late network binding functionality to network or web-based applications or services. An application gateway component exposes generic interfaces for different types of network applications allowing client application developers to utilize generic functionality. Client applications can invoke the generic interfaces, at which point the application gateway component can determine contextual information related to the end user. Using the contextual information, the application gateway component can perform late network binding to a network or web-based application or service by generating and transmitting a request thereto based at least in part on the generic interface invocation and user context. The contextual information can include explicit binding information or data that can be utilized to determine or infer binding preferences.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07925735&OS=07925735&RS=07925735
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L
number: 07925735
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081217
---
Advances in computer technology e.g. microprocessor speed memory capacity data transfer bandwidth software functionality and the like have generally contributed to increased computer application in various settings. For example computers are in many homes across the country and the world allowing users to interconnect over a virtual space by communicating through email internet phone instant messaging and or the like. Media is also shared among computer users such as photos videos audio etc. In addition cellular phone and related network technology has similarly advanced facilitating the performance of many of the same functions over a portable device which allows users to remain connected even when absent from a computer. Whether on computer or cellular phone or other similar devices and regardless of the supporting network Internet Wi Fi network conventional telephone network cellular network wireless mesh network etc. the foregoing functionality is provided through applications that execute on the computer and or cellular phone. The applications can be standalone applications and or can be executed using features of a general purpose application such as a web browser for example. More recently services can be provided through the World Wide Web allowing the computers cellular phones etc. to receive remote services from a variety of providers such as gaming photo printing stock trading bank account management health information management and or substantially any imaginable service.

On a different front computers cellular phones etc. can provide local application binding which allows applications to be bound to different file types facilitating simplified handling of files in an operating system executing on computers cellular phones etc. Typically the computer cellular phone etc. maintains a list of the bindings such that upon requesting files or data of a certain type the computers cellular phones etc. can invoke the appropriate application to allow opening and or manipulation of the requested files or data such that the user need not perform the individual steps of finding the data manually opening an appropriate application and utilizing that application to manipulate the specific files or data. In addition the user can select which applications should be utilized when opening different types of files. Thus a user can have multiple applications that handle a certain type of file but can prefer one application such that only that application would be used to open that particular type of file.

The following presents a simplified summary of the innovation in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the claimed subject matter nor delineate the scope of the subject innovation. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the claimed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The subject innovation relates to providing network based late binding for applications executing on devices such as computers cellular phones etc. In particular binding for network based applications and or services can be provided for given user or device profiles capabilities and or the like. According to an example an application gateway can be utilized to create a binding of generic network application type requests to specific network or web based applications or services. In this regard application developers can utilize generic interface models to provide functionality for multiple specific network or web based applications or services. The application gateway can receive invocations of the generic interface determine a context for the request and select an appropriate binding to a specific network or web based application or service.

The context for example can relate to explicit binding configurations requested by a user data from which binding preferences can be inferred such as browsing history demographic information environmental information etc. provisioned data associated with a service subscription and or the like. In this regard different devices and or applications operated by a single user can result in the same bindings for a given generic application type as described herein. In addition the application gateway can expose available generic interfaces to facilitate developing applications that leverage the interfaces as well as to allow for registration of specific network or web based applications or services for subsequent binding thereto. Also in one example functionality can be leveraged on the client to provide intuitive bindings as described in further detail below.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the claimed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the innovation may be employed and the claimed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features of the claimed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the innovation when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The claimed subject matter is described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject innovation. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the subject innovation.

As utilized herein terms component system data store engine template manager network profile and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware software e.g. in execution and or firmware. For example a component can be a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a program a function a library a subroutine and or a computer or a combination of software and hardware. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter. Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

Now turning to the figures illustrates a system that facilitates late network based binding of generic application requests to specified network applications such as web based applications or services. The system comprises an application gateway component that manages late network bindings related to one or more application requests coming from one or more network users. The network application can be one of a plurality of network or web based applications or services that can receive input forwarded from the application gateway component . For example the application gateway component can receive a generic application request as input determine a binding for the generic application request based on a context in one example and forward the generic application request to the network application based on the binding. Binding can refer to translation of a received service request to a specific service or application based upon a mapping to the service or application at the time when requested service is to be provided. Thus late binding can be provided for network or web based applications and services where the binding occurs late in application development e.g. once applications are developed and executing and occurs over a network to one or more network based applications or services.

According to an example the application gateway component can configure an application type for allowing associated binding. The application gateway component can expose a generic interface for the application type and communicate with one or more network applications based on invocation of the generic interface e.g. by the generic application request . For example the application gateway component can implement and or expose a generic interface for an application type related to online photo printing. In one example the generic interface can include functions to upload photos view photos print photos delete photos and or similar functions typically provided by online photo printing services. The application gateway component can access appropriate routines on a variety of specific network or web based applications or services such as network application . Various network applications can include for example different photo printing web services. In another example the network application can include implemented routines that are registered with the application gateway component to shift the development burden to the network application provider.

In this regard the application gateway component can receive a generic application request for at least one of the foregoing photo printing functions and can determine a binding for the generic request. For example the binding can be based at least in part on one or more aspects of the generic application request such as a source of the request data comprised within the request e.g. an explicit indication of the binding information used to discern the binding and or the like one or more specifications or capabilities of the source historical data related to the source etc. Using the binding data the application gateway component can generate a specific request to the network application in response to the generic application request and information related thereto.

For example a client application can be developed to utilize general photo printing functionality. The application can invoke the generic interface for example to upload photos to a desired photo printing web service or other generic application requests as shown. Using additional information the application gateway component can forward the request to a desired or preferred network application by determining a binding such that the application invoking the generic interface need not develop functionality dependent upon any specific photo printing service. Thus applications can be written that invoke the generic interface exposed by the application gateway component and the application gateway component provides late network and or web based bindings to the applications. This allows preferred network and or web based applications or services to be utilized by client applications such that the client need only implement generic functionality related to the network and or web based application or service type.

In one example the application gateway component can be communicatively coupled to the client . For example the application gateway component can be provided by an Internet service provider ISP and present within a related device such as a modem router and or the like. In another example the application gateway component can additionally or alternatively be stored remotely from the client and still provided by the ISP. It is to be appreciated that providing the application gateway component at the ISP in either embodiment allows the application gateway component to act as a gatekeeper for network applications providing efficient user authentication and context augmentation functions in a central place. Thus the authentication and context augmentations need not be maintained at the network applications. Moreover providing the application gateway component remotely from the client allows for centralized storage of late network binding information regardless of the type of client utilized. Thus where a single user has a personal computer and cellular phone connecting to the application gateway component via disparate access network the same binding information can be utilized by the application gateway component such that for example photos taken by the cellular phone and photos loaded onto the personal computer can be uploaded to the same online photo printing service. In another example the application gateway component can be part of a web server such that a user can request binding using an application operating as part of the web server initiating a request to the web server such as a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP request and or the like.

According to one example the application gateway component includes a context component that can receive or determine a context related to the client . For example the context can relate to information received about the client which can be established by the client through configuration received in a request related to the generic interface determined from mining information related to the client such as browsing history or other information obtainable by an ISP and or the like. The context can be utilized to direct the gateway for example as to the appropriate late network bindings to be utilized for various types of network applications the context can be explicitly specified and or inferred for example. In one example the context can be a default context defined by the application gateway component e.g. the default context can be used when a context is not specified and or cannot be inferred . In addition the request receiver component can receive a generic interface request from the client . In one example the request can be generated from the application executing on the client. The request can relate to functionality provided by the application that is selectable by the user in another example the request can relate to an intercepted application command determined by an event listener not shown . Moreover the request can relate to a network request intercepted by the application gateway component for example by network sniffing for certain outgoing network requests.

Using the context the request generator component can create a request specific to a network application based on the context received or determined by the context component as well as the request received by the request receiver component . For example the application can allow a user to manage bank accounts and pay bills online. The application gateway component can provide a generic online bill paying interface for example that exposes functionality for transmitting payment to a payee viewing history of payments managing payees and or the like. The application gateway component can implement specific functionality behind the generic interface that facilitates performing the functions at various banking websites which correspond to network applications . As mentioned in another example the banking websites network applications can implement routines that are registered with the application gateway component to put the onus on the bank to provide the backend functionality.

In this example a user can pay a bill using the application the application in turn generates a call to the generic bill pay interface provided by the application gateway component . The request receiver component obtains the request from the application and the context component determines information related to the request the client and or the like as described. In one example the client and or a user thereof can have previously configured binding information for bill pay type applications in the application gateway component to a given preferred banking website network application . The request generator component then generates a request to the appropriate banking website network application based on the context and received request. In one example where the binding was explicitly specified in a previous configuration step the request generator component can determine the binding accordingly create the appropriate request and transmit the request to the banking website network application . Thus the late network binding saves the application from having to develop functionality for the many banking websites rather the application need only implement generic functionality and the application gateway component handles user or context specific functionality.

Moreover centralizing the application gateway component e.g. as accessible over one or more networks allows clients related to a user to utilize the same bindings. Thus in one example the client can be a personal computer that executes an application allowing banking website interaction as described above. In another example however the client can be a cellular phone utilized by the same user also having a different application as appropriate to the smaller portable client device that provides access to banking website functionality. For example the user on the go may have forgotten to pay a bill at home. The application that executes on the cellular phone can similarly be utilized to invoke the generic bill pay interface of the application gateway component . The request receiver component similarly receives the generic bill pay request and the context component determines the context which can relate to identifying the user of the cellular phone based on various aspects. Again where the application gateway component is a cellular service provider the information is easily obtained through network connectivity parameters. In either case based on the identification the request generator component can determine the appropriate banking website network application and accordingly generate and transmit the request. Thus users need not configure separate applications on multiple clients to receive bill pay functionality bound to its preferred network application.

In yet another example the application can generate a request to the application gateway component which can act as a broker in determining late network binding. For example the application can be a web browser which resolves universal resource locators URL related to a web services provider such as http www.att.com to receive a corresponding web page. Furthermore a user of the browser can reference a desired service coupled with the provider via conventional domain name mapping DNS such as mallshopping.att.com to indicate the desire to browse for mall shopping websites in physical proximity to the user. In an alternative embodiment the application can receive desired actions as input. For example the user can type a phrase such as mall shopping in a search box and or the like. In one example the search box can be on a web page associated with the application gateway component . In another example the input to a search box of an independent search engine can resolve to a URL such as http mallshopping.att.com. In either case the request receiver component can determine the desired service the context component can determine an appropriate context related to the desired service and the request generator component can determine a late network binding related to the desired service and the context transmitting a request to the appropriate network application e.g. a mall directory website desired by the user as indicated in pre configuration as described or inferred from other context related data such as the location of the user or through a service agreement between an ISP and a particular mall directory store website .

Now referring to a system that facilitates client based context determination and capability feedback is illustrated. The system includes a client that communicates with an application gateway component to receive late network binding functionality as described supra to one or more network applications . The client includes a history component that can mine specified current and or historical information about the client or a user thereof a context specifier component that can determine and specify a context based at least in part on the historical data and a capability specifier component that can indicate one or more capabilities of the client . The application gateway component can include a client personalization component that can utilize one or more of the indicated capabilities on the client to provide added value related to the late network bindings as discussed below.

According to an example the history component can analyze data related to the client or a user thereof that can be utilized to determine a pattern of prior activity which can be utilized as described above. The data that can be analyzed is substantially limitless and can include metadata from a variety of sources related to the client and or a user thereof. For example the history component can analyze data related to one or more aspects of a user profile such as demographic residence location possessions financial status etc. browsing history including answers mined from real time transaction such as recent searches street or billing addresses etc. . The context specifier component can additionally analyze data such as real time user location e.g. as determined from a system accessing location global positioning system GPS etc. biofeedback e.g. information regarding a user s physical condition environmental data such as air temperature time of day and or the like. The context specifier component can indicate a context to the application gateway component based on the historical and contextual data which can be utilized to determine appropriate binding information based on a related request.

For example via an application executing on the client a brokered web service a search engine specification and or the like a user can specify that it desires to purchase clothing. The history component can analyze data such as prior purchase history and generate supplementary information relevant to the purchase request related to the history. The historical data can include one or more previous store identifiers in one example which the application gateway component can utilize to connect the client with the store as a late network binding based on the generic request. Moreover the context specifier component can analyze additional data related to weather in an area where the user resides. Context generated from this information can be utilized for example to determine which department or items in the store may interest the user most. The application gateway component can choose an appropriate department or items in the store for binding the client application based on this contextual information.

Moreover in one example a capability specifier component can indicate one or more capabilities of the client to the application gateway component that can be utilized in the late binding. The client personalization component can use the capability along substantially any step in providing the late binding functionality. For example the client can have capabilities related to GPS that allow for real time location determination and specification. Upon requesting clothing as in the example above the application gateway component can bind the client to a network application related to a clothing store. The client personalization component can then utilize the GPS functionality to determine a current location of the client and can provide a store location near the client to purchase and or pickup purchased clothing for example. In another example the client personalization component can utilize the GPS capability to determine a location of the device upon determining an appropriate binding. In this regard in the clothing example stores not in the area can be ignored and the application gateway component can choose network application bindings that are relevant to the GPS location.

In another example the capability specifier component can also indicate specific application choices specified by users for types of network applications. For example if the end user desires a specific photo sharing application the user can establish that in a related client device such as device . Applications on the device can pass the selected specific application as a optional parameter to the application gateway component in one example. In this regard for example the application gateway component can override late network bindings determined as described above with specific applications indicated by the capability specifier component .

In yet another example the client personalization component can detect voice over internet protocol VoIP capability on the client and read catalog information to a user of the client e.g. where the client personalization component additionally detects absence of a display or otherwise or allow connect a user of the client with the store using the VoIP functionality. Thus the client personalization component can provide additional functionality based on client capabilities for an intuitive late network binding related experience.

Turning now to displayed is a system that facilitates configuring an application gateway component for providing late network binding functionality for a variety of network or web based applications and services. The system comprises a client that communicates with an application gateway component to receive late network binding as described herein. The application gateway component comprises a user configuration component that can be utilized to specify binding preferences and or other information related to a user of the client and a context data component that creates a context to facilitate late network binding as described based on information from the user configuration.

According to an example the client can interact with the user configuration component to establish late network binding preferences. For example the client can be utilized to provide the user configuration component with explicit binding preferences such as selecting desired network or web based applications or services corresponding to application types. In addition the client can provide the user configuration component with other information regarding the desired binding such as authentication credentials configuration parameters related to the selected applications or services and or the like. Furthermore the client can provide the user configuration component with information regarding the client and or a user thereof. The information can relate to one or more aspects of a user profile client functional capabilities client specifications e.g. performance metrics and or the like for example.

In another example the user configuration component can infer the foregoing information based on one or more aspects related to the client . For example where the application gateway component resides at an ISP for the client the user configuration component can collect browsing requests and can determine information regarding the client and or user thereof such as desired network or web based applications or services etc. The context data component can utilize information from the user configuration component to create a context for subsequent application bindings. As described the context can relate to an implicit or explicit application binding for a given application type related to a received request.

According to one example the application gateway component can implement generic interfaces for a variety of generic network application types such as bill pay applications photo printing applications and the like as described above. The application development component can leverage the design repository component to obtain information regarding available interfaces such as the application types available and or listings of the interface specifications. In this regard for example the application development component can implement a new client application utilizing the generic interface to provide network application type functionality without implementing specialized routines to communicate with a plurality of existing network or web based applications or services. Thus the application development component leverages the application gateway component by first inspecting and later utilizing the generic interfaces to provide late network binding. The application gateway component as described can receive the interface invocations determine related context s and bind the request to a specific network application by communicating with substantially any compliant network application to provide the functionality indicated by the generic interface invocation.

According to another example the application development component can be the network or web based application or service as described. In this regard the application development component can leverage the design repository component to determine methods exposed by the application gateway component for generic functionality. The application development component can implement network application routines in one example and register the routines with the application gateway component to establish bindings to the generic functionality. It is to be appreciated that the routines can be required to conform to a specification or description such as a web services description language WSDL definition in one example . In addition the application development component can provide identification information e.g. a website name or trade name allowing the application gateway component to determine when to map generic calls to that particular instantiation of the application development component . The application gateway component can subsequently map generic interface invocations to the registered routines where the network application is chosen based on context as described. This puts the onus on the network application provider to develop applications that interface with the application gateway component . In another example the application gateway component can implement the specific routines for one or more network applications that map to the generic interface. This can be accomplished by utilizing interfaces exposed by the network application for example.

The routing and late binding component facilitates routing and or late binding by reference to a set of application binding databases which are provided including a customer profile database and or a services catalog database which can store profile and catalog data from which generic application requests received from a client can be mapped to specific application interfaces. Also access control policy rules are employed to limit access by specific customers to specific applications and events. According to an example the application gateway component can create a session with the client using the web session control thus the application gateway component can establish an identity for the client to know which applications to invoke upon receipt of a generic application request from the client and subsequently to connect with multiple backends to provide the described functionality. The external application for example can be invoked by a generic interface call as described herein on the application gateway component . The application gateway component can determine a generic application type and determine if it knows the appropriate binding defined for the particular client device and customer according to rules defined in the application binding databases if so it can transmit a command to the appropriate application or mashup as described.

The customer context database can be queried in one example to determine a context of the user related to an external application an internal application or a service mashup of either application type with shared application components as described. This context can be a history of published events to the interapplication communication component as shown the application gateway component can perform this without the service mashup control component in one example . Once appropriate information is gathered an application can alter its internal behavior as appropriate to the context publish a new event via the application independent signaling mechanism which will cause another application to be notified or generate a new generic request via the application gateway . In the latter case the routing and late binding component can determine an appropriate binding for the generic call based on information contained in the application binding databases and transmit the information to the external application in one example. The application gateway component can also perform a different binding by transmitting a command to the internal application as described and or an appropriate service mashup which may invoke some shared application components for example.

According to another example the application binding databases can be utilized to form a context and or binding related to a user and type of the external application . For example the customer profile database can comprise information regarding the user including home address circuit location demographic information age etc. and where the application gateway component relates to an ISP it can also comprise information related to the Internet service such as package level account number payment history and or the like. As described this information can be utilized to determine a set of preferences associated with the user which can comprise explicit application bindings or information from which implicit bindings can be determined. In one example the user preferences can comprise a binding based on one or more service providers analyzed from prior browsing history and stored in the customer profile database . The analysis can be achieved by reviewing data found in the customer context database in one example. Moreover one or more access control policies can be utilized to create a preferred binding from such context data. In one example this can include limiting users from binding to an internal application based upon location information associated to the application. For example an access control policy can specify to only allow binding to a certain online photo provider depending on a location of the user related to the context to prevent possible binding where the user is not in an area serviced by the provider.

In yet another example the client can access the application gateway component as described to configure preferences for a user. For example the user can specify explicit application bindings and or information from which bindings can be inferred as shown supra. The bindings in one example can be specified in profile information provided by the client and stored in the customer profile database for subsequent context determination as described.

Moreover the external application can communicate with the application gateway component in a development phase to obtain listings of available application types for which generic interfaces are implemented. This information for example can be retrieved from the services catalog database by the application gateway component and transmitted to the external application . The external application as described can utilize this information to develop a new application which can execute on a client to access the generic interface facilitating late network binding functionality in the application . Additionally the internal applications can query the product catalog database in one example to determine functionality exposed by the application gateway component . In this regard the internal applications can develop routines and register with the application gateway component interface to facilitate late network binding availability to the internal applications or to an external application .

Now referring to a system that facilitates providing late network binding over a plurality of networks is illustrated. The system includes an application gateway component that receives late network binding requests from various applications executing on various devices over one or more types of network. The system can also include a PDA laptop computer personal computer and television or related set top box that communicate with the application gateway component as described herein over a computer network . It is to be appreciated that devices communicating over the computer network to receive late network binding are not limited to those shown substantially any device that can communicate over the computer network can be utilized. In addition the system can also include a cellular phone and or smartphone communicating with the application gateway component over a cellular network to receive late network binding to one or more applications as described. Furthermore the system can include a telephone communicating over a telephone network such as a public switched telephone network PSTN and or the like to receive late network binding from the application gateway component . It is to be appreciated that other types of networks and related devices are possible as well. The foregoing are included to facilitate explanation of the below example embodiments.

The application gateway component can provide late network bindings to a plurality of network or web based applications or services such as one or more media applications photo applications banking applications retail applications service applications e.g. taxi dry cleaners etc. file sharing applications and or other types of applications or services. In one example media applications can include a plurality of applications for sharing music providing video on demand controlling video access or other digital rights applications and or the like. In addition a centralized application gateway component as shown for example can allow the devices to experience similar bindings for applications based on details of a user of the device as described. In this regard account information can be stored at the application gateway component as described such that similar bindings can be chosen for devices related to the same user. Thus for example a personal computer can execute a video on demand application which can access the application gateway component using generic interfaces provided via computer network to purchase a video from one of a plurality of available video on demand applications as determined using a context of a user of the computer as described above. A user can watch a portion of the video from the application classified in the media apps on the personal computer . On the go the user can utilize cellular phone which can execute a video on demand application that similarly uses the generic interfaces exposed by the application gateway component . The application gateway component can determine a context as described and bind the video on demand functionality to one or more media apps related to the user. In one example the selected media app can be the same one utilized to purchase the video from the personal computer or a related application .

In another example the devices can have their own specific bindings based on device and or access network type. For example the cellular phone in the above example can access a mobile version of the application utilized by the personal computer to stream the video on demand. The application gateway component as described makes the binding determination based on various aspects related to the user of the device aspects of the device itself and or the like. Bindings can also be related to user subscription to the application gateway component such as service level and or the like. It is to be appreciated that substantially limitless applications can utilize the application gateway component as described herein. For example one or more taxi cab hailing applications can be callable by the application gateway component which implements generic taxi cab hailing functionality. One or more of the devices described can invoke the generic interface to hail a taxi cab. The application gateway component can bind the device to an appropriate specific application. In one example each taxi cab company can have a distinct application for hailing a cab and indeed not all taxi cab companies operate in all cities. Thus the application gateway component as described can retrieve aspects associated with the device or user thereof such as subscriber address location obtained from GPS on the device etc. which can be utilized in performing the binding. In this regard a device in New York can be bound to a taxi cab company operating in that area and not just any taxi cab company.

Other examples include applications that support interactive gaming turn by turn directions which can be location and or preference based as described in similar examples . In addition binding as described can be based on environment such that for example traffic alerts can be provided over text message when not in the car or audibly e.g. over a car stereo when in the car. In another example the application bound can be the same but the output can vary based on determining an environmental context and or leveraging one or more capabilities of the client device as described. It is to be appreciated that many other examples are possible where the network applications expose interfaces or routines accessible by the application gateway component as described.

At a network application for binding can be determined based on the context. In one example where the context comprises browsing history information a determination can be made as to the best binding based on browsing history. For example the browsing history can comprise requests to an online photo printing website depending on many factors such as time since last visit frequency of visiting current time of day etc. the photo printing website can be utilized for the binding if such binding is available. At a call to the network application can be generated corresponding to the generic interface call. For example where the client has caused invocation of a photo print generic call a call can be generated to the bound photo printing service website to print photos. In this regard client applications can leverage a generic interface to access multiple related network or web based applications or services. Moreover different clients can be utilized by a user e.g. mobile phone and computer and can result in the same binding such that the user need not configure bindings for each client for example.

Referring now to illustrated is a methodology for invoking generic application type interfaces to receive late network binding related to the invocation. At a request for network application type functionality can be received. For example this can be received from an application call on a client in one example the call can result from action by a user on the client. At a generic interface routine on a gateway related to the network application type can be called. As described for example this can relate to general functionality of related types of network applications such as funds transfer for banking applications or services. At contextual data can be transmitted to the gateway. For example this data can relate to many aspects of the generic application call including data related to a client or user as described functionalities or specifications of the client etc. As described this can include demographic data of the user location age services provided by the client browsing history biofeedback data and or the like. As discussed in detail above the gateway can determine and or utilize this information to generate a context determine appropriate bindings and invoke the appropriate applications. At an indication of functionality performed can be received from the gateway.

Now turning to a methodology that facilitates implementing applications that can leverage late network binding functionality to provide simplified access to a number of network or web based applications or services is displayed. At a gateway can be interrogated for available generic network application type interfaces. This can allow an application for example to explore network application types supported by the gateway. At one or more routines related to the application type interfaces can be determined. For example the application can subsequently determine functionalities for the application type that are supported by the gateway. Utilizing this information at application functionalities can be implemented leveraging the one or more routines. Thus for example the application can implement functionality using the desired generic routines to provide late network binding to a variety of network or web based applications or services.

Referring to a methodology is illustrated that allows network applications to register routines to participate in late network binding to the network application. At a gateway can be interrogated for available generic network application type interfaces. For example the interfaces can be listed by application type such that given types can be searched. At one or more routines can be implemented to coincide with a network application type interface. Thus where the desired application type is supported routines can be implemented based on functionalities provided by the generic network application type interfaces. In one example where the application type is a clothing retail store the generic interface can expose a routine for searching a specified type of clothing. Routines can be implemented in this regard that correspond to the searching such that the gateway can utilize the routines when it receives invocation of the generic interface for searching the specified type of clothing. At the one or more routines can be registered on the gateway so the gateway can make the appropriate call when it receives the generic request from a client and determines the appropriate binding to be to the one or more routines. At information can be provided to allow mapping the generic application type interface to the one or more routines. For example an appropriate website or trade name can be provided such that the application can evaluate context information for the client as described to search for the website or trade name.

In order to provide additional context for implementing various aspects of the claimed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the subject innovation may be implemented. For example an application gateway component that provides late network binding functionality as described in the previous figures can be implemented in such suitable computing environment. While the claimed subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a local computer and or remote computer those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject innovation also may be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types.

Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods may be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multi processor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based and or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which may operatively communicate with one or more associated devices. The illustrated aspects of the claimed subject matter may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However some if not all aspects of the subject innovation may be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in local and or remote memory storage devices.

Turning to an example computing system or operating environment in which various aspects described herein can be implemented is illustrated. One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the claimed subject matter e.g. anywhere that a network can be desirably configured. Accordingly the below general purpose computing system described below in is but one example of a computing system in which the claimed subject matter can be implemented.

Although not required the claimed subject matter can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates in connection with one or more components of the claimed subject matter. Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the claimed subject matter can also be practiced with other computer system configurations and protocols.

With reference to an example of a computing environment for implementing various aspects described herein includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer can include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

Computer can include a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile as well as removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media can embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and can include any suitable information delivery media.

The system memory can include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in memory . Memory can also contain data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of non limiting example memory can also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

The computer can also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. For example computer can include a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and or an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. A hard disk drive can be connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as an interface and a magnetic disk drive or optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as an interface.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard or a pointing device such as a mouse trackball touch pad and or other pointing device. Other input devices can include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and or other input devices can be connected to the processing unit through user input and associated interface s that are coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A graphics subsystem can also be connected to the system bus . In addition a monitor or other type of display device can be connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface which can in turn communicate with video memory. In addition to a monitor computers can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and or a printer which can also be connected through output interface .

The computer can operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer which can in turn have media capabilities different from device . The remote computer can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and can include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such as a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but can also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter. When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a communications component such as a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. A communications component such as a modem which can be internal or external can be connected to the system bus via the user input interface at input and or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in a remote memory storage device. It should be appreciated that the network connections shown and described are non limiting examples and that other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the claimed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the innovation includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the claimed subject matter.

There are multiple ways of implementing the present innovation e.g. an appropriate application programming interface API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to use the binding techniques disclosed above. The claimed subject matter contemplates the use from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that operates according to the binding techniques in accordance with the claimed subject matter. Thus various implementations of the innovation described herein may have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it should be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In addition while a particular feature of the subject innovation may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes including has contains variants thereof and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

