---

title: Non-toxic pyrotechnic delay compositions
abstract: A novel pyrotechnic delay composition for use in metal delay fuse cartridges, including as its primary constituent Si—Al—FeOprepared from powdered form. The delay composition yields a progressive burning zone and burns substantially gas-free, is safe to handle, is resistant to moisture and degradation over time, can be incorporated within the confines of existing detonator shells, and poses no environmental hazards.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07883593&OS=07883593&RS=07883593
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07883593
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081126
---
This application is a continuation in part application of application Ser. No. 11 650 758 filed Dec. 15 2006 now abandoned.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention generally relates to pyrotechnic delay compositions that burn slowly to allow for a time lapse before ignition of a primary charge and more particularly to novel non toxic pyrotechnic delay compositions in which no ingredients pose any environmental hazard.

A delay fuse is a known pyrotechnic device designed to give a delay before ignition of a primary charge or between ignitions of successive charges in an explosive train. Pyrotechnic delay fuses are widely employed in fireworks exhibitions mining quarrying and other blasting operations in order to permit sequential initiation of the explosive charges in a pattern. They are also commonly used in artillery applications to afford a number of seconds for the operator to retire from the artillery before it functions or to time the explosion of an artillery shell.

Existing delay detonator cartridges comprise a metallic shell closed at both ends and containing in sequence a percussion cap pyrotechnic delay composition and igniter. The delay composition imposes an ignition delay between the percussion cap and igniter.

A large number of burning pyrotechnic delay compositions are known in the art and generally include mixtures of fuels and oxidizers. There are certain requirements for these compositions. They must burn without creating large amounts of gaseous by products which would interfere with the functioning of the delay detonator. Moreover pyrotechnic delay compositions should be safe to handle from both an explosive and health perspective and they must be resistant to moisture and degradation over periods of time. They are also subject to volume constraints as they must operate in a wide range of delay detonators within the confines of space available inside existing detonator shells.

A large number of delay compositions consisting of mixtures of fuel and oxidizers are known e.g. Manganese Delay MIL M 21383 Mn PbCra BaCrO Tungsten Delay MIL T 23132 W BaCrO KClO SiO2 T 10 B BaCrO etc. See e.g. M. E. Brown S. J. Tylor and M. J. Tribelhorn Propellants Explosives Pyrotechnics 23 320 327 1998 . Unfortunately these existing ignition delay mixtures are not environmentally friendly due to the toxicity of individual components. For example Manganese Delay MIL M 21383 or Tungsten Delay MIL T 23132 and other similar pyrotechnic delay compositions contain carcinogenic hexavalent chromates. Silicon and barium sulphate delay compositions include a proportion of red lead oxide also carcinogenic. There is a significant desire in the explosives industry to eliminate all use of lead or other toxins and carcinogenics as compounds in delay compositions.

Recently it was found that Si Al FeOcould be considered as a potential replacement for commercial formulations. This mixture appears to be very safe when tested by impact or friction and it is rather insensitive to electrostatic discharge. Ignition temperatures are close to 1000 C. The advantages of Si Al FeOare its insolubility in water and resistance to moisture and that it is environmentally benign. Thus it would be greatly advantageous to provide a non toxic pyrotechnic delay composition based principally on Si Al FeOthat burns substantially gas free is safe to handle is resistant to moisture and degradation over time can be incorporated within the confines of existing detonator shells and that poses no environmental hazard.

An aspect of the invention is to provide a non toxic environmentally friendly pyrotechnic delay composition blended principally from Si Al FeOthat burns substantially gas free is safe to handle resistant to moisture and degradation over time can be incorporated within the confines of existing fuse explosive trains and that poses no environmental hazards.

In accordance with the stated aspects a novel pyrotechnic delay composition is provided for use in conventional metal delay fuse cartridges each including a burnable delay composition for providing a progressive burning zone. The burnable delay composition includes as its primary constituent Si Al FeO. More specifically the pyrotechnic delay composition includes Si Al FeOin a range of from about 15 wt Si and about 85 wt FeOto about 35 wt Si and about 65 wt FeO and more particularly at least about 1 wt Al about 29 wt Si and about 70 wt FeO.

The composition burns substantially gas free is safe to handle resistant to moisture and degradation over time can be incorporated within the confines of existing detonator shells and poses no environmental hazards.

The present invention includes s a non toxic pyrotechnic delay composition based principally on a silicon aluminum iron oxides mixture and more specifically a blend comprising powdered or acicular powdered Silicon Ferric Oxide powder and Fine Grain Aluminum. The pyrotechnic delay composition of the present invention generally includes powdered or acicular powdered Silicon Ferric Oxide powder or Ferrosoferric Oxide powder and Fine Grain Aluminum and more particularly Si Al FeO. The blend is formulated to provide an ignition delay system with an average inverse burn rate in the range of 0.0046182 0.005644 m s. The blend described herein has a consistent burn rate in the range between 0.005 and 0.02 m s an activation energy of approximately 227 kJ mol is nontoxic and none of the ingredients pose an environmental hazard. This makes an excellent candidate for replacement of conventional pyrotechnic delay compositions. Experimental and modeling studies confirm their performance as herein described. For purposes of description the following nomenclature will be used.

An embodiment of the composition is about 1 wt Al 29 wt Si and 70 wt FeO within a range from 15 wt Si and 85 wt FeOto 35 wt Si and 65 wt FeO. When 15 wt Si and 85 wt FeOare used propagation starts in Si FeOsystem at 70 degrees F. however Aluminum is used to increase propagation. Below the value of that composition there is no propagation. Propagation continued in Si FeOsystem up to 35 wt Si and 65 wt Fe3O. Beyond that range there is no propagation. To prepare the blend wet mixing of the two reactants takes place in acetone. After mixing for 2 hours the mixture is sieved three times using a 140 size mesh. The reactant mixture is loaded into aluminum capsules having a diameter of 0.204 inches at a predetermined pressure for example 30 000 psi .

All the foregoing reactants are obtained in powder form from commercial suppliers Silicon Elkem Metals Company mean particle diameter 3.6 micron FeO Columbian Chemicals Company mean particle diameter 2.9 micron Aluminum Valimet Inc. Grade H 2 aluminum weight average particle diameter about 2 3 microns .

Combustion front velocity measurements in a metal cavity see a non adiabatic condition in the silicon aluminum and iron oxide system have been found to vary between 0.005 and 0.02 m s depending on the composition of reactants. For example the combustion front velocity increases with increasing silicon content in the range between 20 and 40 wt regardless which iron oxide powder was used. Thus burn velocity is a direct function of composition. In addition burn velocity is also a function of relative packing density average particle size of reactants initial temperature diameter of the cavity gas pressure gradients and capsule design. The specific effects of these variables have been ascertained by experimentation as detailed below 

In an actual close column cartridge pressure is rapidly built up in the ignition cavity which causes hot gases to flow through the porous reactant mixture. These hot gases preheat reactants causing faster combustion front propagation. The source of the pressure may be gas output from the ignition source temperature increase or desorption of volatile species. In an attempt to better understand the effect of pressure on the burning time experiments were conducted under uni axial gas pressure gradients in an Al Si FeOsystem. Propagation velocities under uni axial gas pressure gradients were measured using the experimental setup shown in . A laser source such as an Nd Yag Pulse Laser sends a laser pulse to ignite the above described pyrotechnic delay mixture which has been pre mixed and pressed into a steel test capsule . The test capsule is also loaded with an igniter charge such as an AlA igniter mixture. The laser first passes through an aluminum test chamber equipped with a photodiode for data acquisition. The laser then passes through a glass window and into a four way coupling which includes a fluid inlet and pressure relief valve for pressurizing the delay column using argon gas. The laser beam ignites the igniter charge initiating the reaction and sends a first test signal to data acquisition via photodiode . The pyrotechnic delay composition burns and upon completion a second photodiode for data acquisition emits a second test signal. The time difference between two test signals allows calculation of the burn rate. Actual results for the Al Si FeOcomposition were shown in . It can be seen from that gas pressure gradient has a significant effect on burn rate sec inch .

Composition has an effect on the burning time and the weight percent of Silicon in the Al Si FeOsystem was varied to optimize the burn rate at approximately 4.5 sec inch. It was found that the lowest limit for Si FeOat 70 F. was 15 wt of Si. The upper limit was 35 wt Si. This data resulted in an embodiment of the composition of 30 wt Si and 70 wt FeO within a range of from 15 wt Si and 85 wt FeOto 35 wt Si and 65 wt FeO. Addition of aluminum is required in order to increase the velocity of propagation and to ensure propagation of that system at low temperatures as indicated by the test data. More aluminum may be added to the mixture to yield a higher propagation velocity.

One of the factors to be considered in the performance of ignition delay devices is the loading pressure of the delay mixture. Thus for comparative testing it is essential to keep loading conditions the same for all samples.

To determine activation energy a test reactor shown in was built. The test reactor included an aluminum cylinder with exemplary dimensions of 0.55 m in length 0.33 m in diameter with flanges at either ends. Cylinder is generally equipped with radiation shields for safety. The reactor was equipped with ports for a molybdenum ignition coil three thermocouples an inert gas inlet for argon pressurization a vacuum inlet and pressure relief safety valve a pressure valve for measurement. The ignition coil may be connected to a variable voltage regulator not shown for initiating ignition. Thermocouples may be connected to a conventional data acquisition system not shown such as is commercially available from IOtech Inc. The effect of activation energy was tested for the Al Si FeOignition delay mixture which is packed at 2 beneath the igniter described above . The Al Si FeOignition delay mixture of the present invention has an activation energy of approximately 227 kJ mol which is suitable for replacement of conventional pyrotechnic delay compositions.

Apparent burn rates can be affected by geometrical factors specific for the cartridge design. Compositions loaded into a small diameter tube burn slower than the same material placed in a cavity with larger diameter. In addition the heat loss to the wall of the container is less significant for a wide bore tube relative the heat retained by the composition. The inverse burn rates were measured at room temperature in 0.20 inch and 0.26 inch diameter aluminum capsules are shown in Table 1 Si FeO and in 0.26 inch diameter aluminum capsules in Table 2 Al Si FeO . The reactant mixture and loading conditions were the same for all samples.

The present inventors have also experimented with igniter AlA packing it on one side of the delay composition as well as on both sides. It was found that the inverse burn rates are almost same in both cases.

In addition to the empirical results obtained above the present inventors have employed mathematical modeling to simulate the combustion wave propagation in condensed reacting systems both with and without the presence of uni axial gas pressure gradient. The models described below assume that the pressure drop along a cylindrical specimen can be described by the Ergun equation as stated by H. S. Fogler 3 1999 . The models also assume gasless and elementary character of the combustion process. This reaction can be represented as solid solid solid 

The governing equations describing the condensed phase reacting system under adiabatic conditions for the semi finite cylindrical body are 

It is convenient from the numerical analysis point of view to rewrite the governing equations 2 through 14 into dimensionless forms. The exponential function in the reaction rate expression Equation 3 may be approximated using the Frank Kamenetskii approximation written as follows 15 

The dimensionless variables and parameters used in Equations 15 through 31 are well defined in the related art nomenclature. For simulation purposes the first and second order spatial derivates were approximated by an upwind and a central finite different scheme respectively 11 12 .

Using the foregoing models the reaction between the delay composition powders can be considered using the kinetic and physico chemical data taken from the above empirical results. Numerically calculated dynamic profiles of dimensionless velocity temperature pressure density and conversion profiles were derived and a good qualitative agreement between the experimental results and numerical calculations was found regarding the effect of gas pressure gradient on the propagation velocity. It was observed that as gas pressure increases the propagation becomes faster.

Experimental actual data was collected on combustion front propagation characteristics in Si Al FeOdelay columns. These propagation characteristics were investigated at 70 F. 65 F. and 200 F. The major measurement effort was on the following compositions 70 wt FeO this composition was kept constant Si 20 30 wt and Al 0 10 wt .

Silicon burns well with Fe3O4 in a wide range of concentrations as specified above. However when the temperature was significantly lower e.g. 65F the range of concentration was significantly narrowed and the Si Fe3O4 mixture without the addition of aluminum had the tendency not to propagate or propagate in so called oscillatory regime unstable . The addition of small amount aluminum significantly widened the concentration range for propagation at very low temperatures which were as important as room or elevated conditions. Therefore aluminum was used as an additional fuel to allow tunability of combustion front propagation characteristics especially propagation velocity. The capability of tuning the propagation velocity was very important for design of different delay columns. In studies aluminum content was varied from 0 to 10 wt . At higher aluminum concentrations above 10 the propagation velocity was much higher than that desired for delay columns. In addition the combustion temperature increased significantly causing some additional product gasification and therefore possibilities of disintegration of a column prior to the completion of the combustion process. Accordingly this behavior would be catastrophic from the point of view of the performance of such delay columns. Therefore the use of aluminum concentrations above 10 wt is ineffective.

An extra benefit of the addition of Al was the improvement of a structural strength and column pressability and integrity when exposed to vibration or during the combustion process. Based on the tests as indicated below the use of aluminum in an exemplary range between 0 to about 10 wt is feasible and in another exemplary embodiment aluminum in a range of about 1 about 7 wt may be used to produce a stable combustion front propagation and in another exemplary embodiment aluminum in a range between about 1 about 5 wt may be used to obtain a more effective tunability range for Si Al Fe3O4 delay columns and in a further exemplary embodiment aluminum in a range between about 1 about 2.5 wt may be used for meeting propagation velocities of specific applications.

Specifically in Tables 3 10 and the results indicated that no addition of aluminum into the Si FeOmixture made this system less reliable at low temperatures e.g. 65F which was unacceptable possible no fires . Accordingly the effect was investigated with the addition of the aluminum powder. The testing indicated that the performance was very reliable when the composition of aluminum was approximately about above 1 wt . The best performance for specific application which satisfied inverse burn requirements was between 1 wt Al and 2.5 wt Al. Further the combustion front propagation was still stable up to 5 wt . The combustion from propagation was still stable up to 7 wt aluminum but the inverse burn rate was too small which means that the combustion front propagated quite fast. At higher aluminum Al concentrations the combustion front was very fast and due to much higher temperatures generated by the system the performance of the delay column was by far less stable resulting in expulsion of a part of reacted and unreacted material from the aluminum body and its partial melting. Therefore the range above 7 wt was not studied extensively. The results of inverse burn rate as the function of Al composition wt in the mixture consisting of 70 wt FeOand the balance of silicon are presented in .

Below in Tables 3 X are selected data for multiple measurements of inverse burn rate as the function of Al composition in the mixture consisting of 70 wt FeOand the balance of silicon.

It should now be apparent that the present pyrotechnic delay compositions provide non toxic environment friendly delay compositions that replace toxic alternatives such as Manganese Delay MIL M 21383 Tungsten Delay MIL T 23132 and other pyrotechnic delays containing carcinogenic hexavalent chromates. The present blends burn substantially gas free are safe to handle are resistant to moisture and degradation over time can be incorporated within the confines of existing fuze explosive trains and that pose no environmental hazards.

Having now fully set forth the exemplary embodiments and certain modifications of the concept underlying the present invention various other embodiments as well as certain variations and modifications of the embodiments herein shown and described will obviously occur to those skilled in the art upon becoming familiar with said underlying concept. It is to be understood therefore that the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically set forth in the following claims.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

