---

title: 8-anilinoimidazopyridines and their use as anti-cancer and/or anti-inflammatory agents
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08293763&OS=08293763&RS=08293763
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 08293763
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081218
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application number 61 015 155 filed Dec. 19 2007 and U.S. provisional application No. 61 054 024 filed May 16 2008 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The invention relates to imidazopyridines with anti cancer activity and more specifically to imidazopyridines which inhibit MEK kinase activity. The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions.

In the quest to understand how Ras transmits extracellular growth signals the MAP mitogen activated protein kinase MAPK pathway has emerged as the crucial route between membrane bound Ras and the nucleus. The MAPK pathway encompasses a cascade of phosphorylation events involving three key kinases namely Raf MEK MAP kinase kinase and ERK MAP kinase . Active GTP bound Ras results in the activation and indirect phosphorylation of Raf kinase. Raf then phosphorylates MEK1 and 2 on two serine residues S218 and S222 for MEK1 and S222 and S226 for MEK2 Ahn et al. 2001 332 417 431 . Activated MEK then phosphorylates its only known substrates the MAP kinases ERK1 and 2. ERK phosphorylation by MEK occurs on Y204 and T202 for ERK1 and Y185 and T183 for ERK2 Ahn et al. 2001 332 417 431 . Phosphorylated ERK dimerizes and then translocates to the nucleus where it accumulates Khokhlatchev et al. 1998 93 605 615 . In the nucleus ERK is involved in several important cellular functions including but not limited to nuclear transport signal transduction DNA repair nucleosome assembly and translocation and mRNA processing and translation Ahn et al. Molecular Cell 2000 6 1343 1354 . Overall treatment of cells with growth factors leads to the activation of ERK1 and 2 which results in proliferation and in some cases differentiation Lewis et al. Adv. Cancer Res. 1998 74 49 139 .

There has been strong evidence that genetic mutations and or overexpression of protein kinases involved in the MAP kinase pathway lead to uncontrolled cell proliferation and eventually tumor formation in proliferative diseases. For example some cancers contain mutations which result in the continuous activation of this pathway due to continuous production of growth factors. Other mutations can lead to defects in the deactivation of the activated GTP bound Ras complex again resulting in activation of the MAP kinase pathway. Mutated oncogenic forms of Ras are found in 50 of colon and 90 pancreatic cancers as well as many others types of cancers Kohl et al. Science 1993 260 1834 1837 . Recently bRaf mutations have been identified in more than 60 of malignant melanoma Davies H. et al. Nature 2002 417 949 954 . These mutations in bRaf result in a constitutively active MAP kinase cascade. Studies of primary tumor samples and cell lines have also shown constitutive or overactivation of the MAP kinase pathway in cancers of pancreas colon lung ovary and kidney Hoshino R. et al. Oncogene 1999 18 813 822 .

MEK has emerged as an attractive therapeutic target in the MAP kinase cascade pathway. MEK downstream of Ras and Raf is highly specific for the phosphorylation of MAP kinase in fact the only known substrates for MEK phosphorylation are the MAP kinases ERK1 and 2 Inhibition of MEK has been shown to have potential therapeutic benefit in several studies. For example small molecule MEK inhibitors have been shown to inhibit human tumor growth in nude mouse xenografts Sebolt Leopold et al. 1999 5 7 810 816 Trachet et al. AACR Apr. 6 10 2002 Poster 5426 Tecle H. IBC 2.sup.nd International Conference of Protein Kinases Sep. 9 10 2002 block static allodynia in animals WO 01 05390 published Jan. 25 2001 and inhibit growth of acute myeloid leukemia cells Milella et al. 2001 108 6 851 859 .

Several small molecule MEK inhibitors have also been discussed in for example WO02 06213 WO 03 077855 and WO03 077914. There still exists a need for new MEK inhibitors as effective and safe therapeutics for treating a variety of proliferative disease states such as conditions related to the hyperactivity of MEK as well as diseases modulated by the MEK cascade.

The invention relates generally to imidazopyridines of formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof with anti cancer and or anti inflammatory activity and more specifically with MEK kinase inhibitory activity. Certain hyperproliferative and inflammatory disorders are characterized by the modulation of MEK kinase function for example by mutations or overexpression of the proteins. Accordingly the compounds of the invention and compositions thereof are useful in the treatment of hyperproliferative disorders such as cancer and or inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis.

Rand Rare independently selected from H halo CN CF OCF NO CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRRNRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl 

Xis selected from R and OR when Xis R Xis optionally taken together with Rand the nitrogen atom to which they are bound to form a 4 7 membered saturated or unsaturated ring having 0 2 additional heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R 

each R is independently H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl 

R Rand Rare independently H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl 

or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a 3 8 membered saturated unsaturated or aromatic ring having 0 2 heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN CF OCF NO C Calkyl OH SH O C Calkyl S C Calkyl NH NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl COH CO C Calkyl C O NH C O NH C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O C Calkyl NHC O C Calkyl NHSO C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl SONH SONH C Calkyl SON C Calkyl OC O NH OC O NH C Calkyl OC O N C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl NHC O O C Calkyl and N C Calkyl C O O C Calkyl 

each Ris independently selected from H halo CN CF OCF NO CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl 

Ris selected from H CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl 

Ris H halo C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl carbocyclyl heteroaryl heterocyclyl OCF NO Si C Calkyl CRR NRR CRR OR or CRR SR 

R is H halo C Calkyl carbocyclyl CF OCF NO Si C Calkyl CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR C Calkenyl C Calkynyl heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl 

wherein each said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl of R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R Rand Ris independently optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R 

each R Rand Ris independently H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl wherein said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN OCF CF NO C Calkyl OH SH O C Calkyl S C Calkyl NH NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl COH CO C Calkyl C O NH C O NH C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O C Calkyl NHC O C Calkyl NHSO C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl SONH SONH C Calkyl SON C Calkyl OC O NH OC O NH C Calkyl OC O N C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl NHC O O C Calkyl and N C Calkyl C O O C Calkyl 

or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a 3 8 membered saturated unsaturated or aromatic ring having 0 2 heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN OCF CF NO C Calkyl OH SH O C Calkyl S C Calkyl NH NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl COH CO C Calkyl C O NH C O NH C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O C Calkyl NHC O C Calkyl NHSO C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl SONH SONH C Calkyl SON C Calkyl OC O NH OC O NH C Calkyl OC O N C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl NHC O O C Calkyl and N C Calkyl C O O C Calkyl 

Rand Rare independently selected from H C Calkyl CH aryl CH carbocyclyl CH heterocyclyl and CH heteroaryl 

Ris C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl wherein each member of Ris optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo oxo CN OCF CF NO C Calkyl OH SH O C Calkyl S C Calkyl NH NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl COH CO C Calkyl C O NH C O NH C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O C Calkyl NHC O C Calkyl NHSO C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl SONH SONH C Calkyl SON C Calkyl OC O NH OC O NH C Calkyl OC O N C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl NHC O O C Calkyl and N C Calkyl C O O C Calkyl 

The present invention includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The present invention also includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further comprising a second chemotherapeutic and or a second anti inflammatory agent. The present compositions are useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human . The present compositions are also useful for treating inflammatory diseases in a mammal e.g. human .

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof alone or in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent.

The present invention includes a method of treating an inflammatory disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof alone or in combination with a second anti inflammatory agent.

The present invention includes a method of using the present compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulae. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. In the event that one or more of the incorporated literature patents and similar materials differs from or contradicts this application including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like this application controls.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms. Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl i Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH propynyl propargyl CHC CH and the like.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl carbocyclic ring and cycloalkyl refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 18 carbon atoms derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronaphthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to 18 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl and azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein ring atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 or 6 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 18 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked attached where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or carboline.

The term halo refers to F Cl Br or I. The heteroatoms present in heteroaryl or heterocyclyl include the oxidized forms such as N O S O and S O .

The terms treat and treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms abnormal cell growth and hyperproliferative disorder are used interchangeably in this application. Abnormal cell growth as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to cell growth that is independent of normal regulatory mechanisms e.g. loss of contact inhibition . This includes for example the abnormal growth of 1 tumor cells tumors that proliferate by expressing a mutated tyrosine kinase or overexpression of a receptor tyrosine kinase 2 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant tyrosine kinase activation occurs 3 any tumors that proliferate by receptor tyrosine kinases 4 any tumors that proliferate by aberrant serine threonine kinase activation and 5 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant serine threonine kinase activation occurs.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma acute leukemia as well as head brain and neck cancer.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include Erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. Bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. Fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca Sutent SU11248 Pfizer Letrozole FEMARA Novartis Imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis Oxaliplatin Eloxatin Sanofi 5 FU 5 fluorouracil Leucovorin Rapamycin Sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth Lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Lonafarnib SCH 66336 Sorafenib BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs and Gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gamma1I and calicheamicin omegaI1 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin including dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin carminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elfornithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rhone Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranmbucil GEMZAR gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine NAVELBINE vinorelbine novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Ralf and H Ras vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and x pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above. Other anti angiogenic agents include MMP 2 matrix metalloproteinase 2 inhibitors MMP 9 matrix metalloproteinase 9 inhibitors COX II cyclooxygenase II inhibitors and VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Examples of such useful matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors that can be used in combination with the present compounds compositions such as any one of the title compounds of EXAMPLES 5 14 are described in WO 96 33172 WO 96 27583 EP 818442 EP 1004578 WO 98 07697 WO 98 03516 WO 98 34918 WO 98 34915 WO 98 33768 WO 98 30566 EP 606 046 EP 931 788 WO 90 05719 WO 99 52910 WO 99 52889 WO 99 29667 WO 99 07675 EP 945864 U.S. Pat. No. 5 863 949 U.S. Pat. No. 5 861 510 and EP 780 386 all of which are incorporated herein in their entireties by reference. Examples of VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors include 4 4 bromo 2 fluoroanilino 6 methoxy 7 1 methylpiperidin 4 ylmethoxy quinazoline ZD6474 Example 2 within WO 01 32651 4 4 fluoro 2 methylindol 5 yloxy 6 methoxy 7 3 pyrrolidin 1 ylpropoxy quinazoline AZD2171 Example 240 within WO 00 47212 vatalanib PTK787 WO 98 35985 and SU11248 sunitinib WO 01 60814 and compounds such as those disclosed in PCT Publication Nos. WO 97 22596 WO 97 30035 WO 97 32856 and WO 98 13354 .

Other examples of chemotherapeutic agents that can be used in combination with the present compounds such as any one of the title compounds of EXAMPLES 5 14 include inhibitors of PI3K phosphoinositide 3 kinase such as those reported in Yaguchi et al 2006 Jour. of the Nat. Cancer Inst. 98 8 545 556 U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 173 029 7 037 915 6 608 056 6 608 053 6 838 457 6 770 641 6 653 320 6 403 588 US 2008 0242665 WO 2006 046031 WO 2006 046035 WO 2006 046040 WO 2007 042806 WO 2007 042810 WO 2004 017950 US 2004 092561 WO 2004 007491 WO 2004 006916 WO 2003 037886 US 2003 149074 WO 2003 035618 WO 2003 034997 US 2003 158212 EP 1417976 US 2004 053946 JP 2001247477 JP 08175990 JP 08176070 US 6703414 and WO 97 15658 all of which are incorporated herein in their entireties by reference. Specific examples of such PI3K inhibitors include SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis Inc. and GDC 0941 PI3K inhibitor Genentech Inc. .

The term inflammatory diseases as used in this application includes but not limited to rheumatoid arthritis atherosclerosis congestive hear failure inflammatory bowel disease including but not limited to Crohn s disease and ulcerative colitis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in the lung fibrotic disease in the liver and kidney Crohn s disease lupus skin diseases such as psoriasis eczema and scleroderma osteoarthritis multiple sclerosis asthma diseases and disorders related to diabetic complications fibrotic organ failure in organs such as lung liver kidney and inflammatory complications of the cardiovascular system such as acute coronary syndrome.

An anti inflammatory agent is a compound useful in the treatment of inflammation. Examples of anti inflammatory agents include injectable protein therapeutics such as Enbrel Remicade Humira and Kineret . Other examples of anti inflammatory agents include non steroidal anti inflammatory agents NSAIDs such as ibuprofen or aspirin which reduce swelling and alleviate pain disease modifying anti rheumatic drugs DMARDs such as methotrexate 5 aminosalicylates sulfasalazine and the sulfa free agents corticosteroids immunomodulators such as 6 mercaptoputine 6 MP azathioprine AZA cyclosporines and biological response modifiers such as Remicade. . infliximab and Enbrel. . etanercept fibroblast growth factors platelet derived growth factors enzyme blockers such as Arava. . leflunomide and or a cartilage protecting agent such as hyaluronic acid glucosamine and chondroitin.

The term prodrug as used in this application refers to a precursor or derivative form of a compound of the invention that is capable of being enzymatically or hydrolytically activated or converted into the more active parent form. See e.g. Wilman Prodrugs in Cancer Chemotherapy Biochemical Society Transactions 14 pp. 375 382 615th Meeting Belfast 1986 and Stella et al. Prodrugs A Chemical Approach to Targeted Drug Delivery Borchardt et al. ed. pp. 247 267 Humana Press 1985 . The prodrugs of this invention include but are not limited to ester containing prodrugs phosphate containing prodrugs thiophosphate containing prodrugs sulfate containing prodrugs peptide containing prodrugs D amino acid modified prodrugs glycosylated prodrugs lactam containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenoxyacetamide containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenylacetamide containing prodrugs 5 fluorocytosine and other 5 fluorouridine prodrugs which can be converted into the more active cytotoxic free drug. Examples of cytotoxic drugs that can be derivatized into a prodrug form for use in this invention include but are not limited to compounds of the invention and chemotherapeutic agents such as described above.

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation hydroxylation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of the invention including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof

A liposome is a small vesicle composed of various types of lipids phospholipids and or surfactant which is useful for delivery of a drug such as the MEK inhibitors disclosed herein and optionally a chemotherapeutic agent to a mammal. The components of the liposome are commonly arranged in a bilayer formation similar to the lipid arrangement of biological membranes.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomer refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution and connectivity but different orientations of their atoms in space that cannot be interconverted by rotation about single bonds.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as crystallization electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and 1 or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or 1 meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity.

The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of the invention. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate mesylate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts alkali metal e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal e.g. magnesium salts and ammonium salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

If the compound of the invention is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid methanesulfonic acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the compound of the invention is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base such as an amine primary secondary or tertiary an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include but are not limited to organic salts derived from amino acids such as glycine and arginine ammonia primary secondary and tertiary amines and cyclic amines such as piperidine morpholine and piperazine and inorganic salts derived from sodium calcium potassium magnesium manganese iron copper zinc aluminum and lithium.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

A solvate refers to an association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of the invention. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine. The term hydrate refers to the complex where the solvent molecule is water.

The term protecting group refers to a substituent that is commonly employed to block or protect a particular functionality while reacting other functional groups on the compound. For example an amino protecting group is a substituent attached to an amino group that blocks or protects the amino functionality in the compound. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBZ and 9 fluorenylmethylenoxycarbonyl Fmoc . Similarly a hydroxy protecting group refers to a substituent of a hydroxy group that blocks or protects the hydroxy functionality. Suitable protecting groups include acetyl and trialkylsilyl. A carboxy protecting group refers to a substituent of the carboxy group that blocks or protects the carboxy functionality. Common carboxy protecting groups include phenylsulfonylethyl cyanoethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl 2 p toluenesulfonyl ethyl 2 p nitrophenylsulfenyl ethyl 2 diphenylphosphino ethyl nitroethyl and the like. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

The terms compound of this invention compounds of the present invention compounds of formula I imidazopyridines and imidazopyridines of formula I unless otherwise indicated include compounds imidazopyridines of formula I and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites salts e.g. pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof.

The present invention provides imidazopyridines of formula I as described above useful as kinase inhibitors particularly useful as MEK kinase inhibitors. In an embodiment of the present invention when Zis N then R is not aryl and all other variables are as defined in formula I.

In an embodiment of the present invention compounds are of formula I a and all other variables are as defined in formula I or as defined in the embodiment described above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H halo CF or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H methyl CF F or Cl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H F or Cl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H halo CF or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H methyl CF F or Cl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H F or Cl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In an embodiment of the present invention R is H or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above. In another embodiment R is H and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Zis CRand all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Zis N and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Zis CRand Ris H or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above. In another embodiment Ris H and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above. In another embodiment Ris methyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H or methyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above. In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H or methyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris methyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Xis OR and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis OR wherein R is H or C Calkyl e.g. C Calkyl substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis OR wherein R is heterocyclyl e.g. 4 to 6 membered heterocyclyl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis OR wherein R is 4 to 6 membered heterocyclyl having 1 nitrogen ring atom wherein said heterocyclyl is optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Xis R and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis R wherein R is H or C Calkyl e.g. C Calkyl substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR . C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Xis R and Xis taken together with Rand the nitrogen atom to which they are bound to form a 4 5 membered saturated cyclic ring having 0 2 additional heteroatoms selected from 0 S and N wherein said cyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR . SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In an embodiment of the present invention W is OR wherein R is H or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention W is OR wherein R is H and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention W is OR wherein R is C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In an embodiment of the present invention W is NHSOR and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris halo C Calkynyl carbocyclyl or SR and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris halo C Calkynyl C carbocyclyl or SRwherein Ris C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In an embodiment of the present invention R is H halo or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In an embodiment of the present invention p is 1 or 2 and all other variables are as defined in formula I or I a or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

Another embodiment of the present invention includes compounds described in EXAMPLES 5 14 and compounds below 

The imidazopyridines of formula I are prepared according to the procedures described below in the schemes and examples or by methods known in the art. For example compounds of formula I where Y W C O may be prepared according to Scheme 1.

Isonicotinic acids of general structure II may be obtained commercially or prepared using methods described in the literature. The acids II may be converted in to esters of formula III by reaction with a chlorinating agent such as oxalyl chloride in a presence of a catalyst such as DMF in a solvent such as DCM followed by treatment with an alkyl alcohol such methanol. Alternatively acids II may be reacted in an alkyl alcohol in the presence of an acid such as sulfuric acid to provide esters of formula III .

2 Cyanopyridines IV may be prepared from 2 halo pyridines III by reaction with an inorganic cyanide such as zinc cyanide in the presence of a transition metal catalyst such as Zn tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 or tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene in a solvent such as DMF at a temperature of from 50 C. to reflux temperature or under microwave irradiation at a temperature of from 70 C. to 200 C.

Cyano pyridines IV may be reduced to give 2 aminomethyl pyridines V A CH by reaction with hydrogen at a pressure of from 1 to 5 atmospheres in the presence of a catalyst such as palladium on carbon in a solvent such as methanol acetic acid or formic acid with or without added strong acid such as concentrated hydrochloric acid. Alternatively the cyanopyridines IV may be converted to 2 aminomethyl pyridines by reacting with an inorganic metal hydride such as sodium borohydride in the presence of a metal salt such as cobalt chloride in a solvent such as methanol at a temperature of from 0 C. to room temperature. Alternatively compounds of formula V A NH may be prepared from compounds of formula III by reaction with hydrazine hydrate in the presence of a solvent such as ethanol at a temperature of from 0 C. to reflux.

Compounds of formula VI may be prepared from compounds V by reaction with an anhydride such as acetic anhydride or mixed anhydride such as formic acetic anhydride in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran at a temperature of from 0 C. to reflux.

Compounds of formula VII may be prepared from compounds VI by reaction with a chlorinating agent such as phosphorous oxychloride in a solvent such as toluene at a temperature of from 25 C. to reflux. Alternatively compounds of formula VII may be prepared from compounds of formula VI by reaction with an acid such as formic acid neat or in a solvent such as dioxane at a temperature of from 50 C. to reflux.

Compounds of formula VIII may be prepared from compounds of formula VII by reaction with an aniline incorporating appropriate substituents R1 in the presence of a base such as lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide in a solvent such as THF at a temperature of from 78 C. to room temperature. Alternatively compounds of formula VIII may be prepared from compounds of formula VII by reaction with an aniline incorporating appropriate substituents R1 in the presence of a catalyst such as tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 a base such as potassium phosphate a ligand such as 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 6 diisopropoxy biphenyl in a suitable solvent such as toluene at a temperature of from room temperature to the reflux temperature of the solvent or under microwave irradiation at a temperature of from 70 C. to 150 C.

Compounds of formula IX can be obtained from compounds of formula VIII by reaction with a base such as sodium hydroxide in a protic solvent such as ethanol or methanol at a temperature of from room temperature up to reflux temperature.

Compounds of formula IX can be reacted with a functionalised hydroxylamine of formula XII commercially available or prepared according to or an amine and a suitable coupling agent such as O 7 aza benzo triazol 1 yl N N N N tetra methyluronium hexafluoro phosphate N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride or N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide in the presence of N hydroxy 1 2 3 benzotriazole in the presence of a suitable base such as diisopropylethylamine or triethylamine in an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran N N dimethylformamide or dichloromethane at a temperature of about room temperature to obtain the compounds of formula X . Compounds of formula X can be obtained directly from compounds of formula VIII by reaction with an amine or hydroxylamine DNHR in the presence of a Lewis acid such as trimethyl aluminium in a solvent such as DCM at a temperature of from room temperature up to reflux temperature. Alternatively compounds of formula X may be prepared from compounds of formula VIII by treatment with a functionalized hydroxylamine DNHR in the presence of a base such as lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide in a solvent such as THF at a temperature of from 78 C. to 25 C.

Compounds of formula XVI may be prepared from compounds of formula IX by treatment with diphenylphosphoryl azide in a solvent such as toluene in the presence of a base such as triethylamine. Compounds of formula XVII may be prepared from compounds of formula XVI by treatment with a base such as sodium hydride in a solvent such as DMF followed by reaction with a sulfonyl chloride appropriately substituted . Compounds of formula XVIII may be prepared from compounds of formula XVII by deprotection using a base such as sodium hydroxide in a solvent such as DMF at a temperature of from 50 C. to 150 C.

Hydroxylamines of formula XII may be prepared using methods described in the literature or the synthetic route outlined in Scheme 3.

Primary or secondary alcohols of general formula XXXVII may be prepared using methods described in the literature. They may be reacted with N hydroxy phthalimide using a phosphine and coupling reagent such as diethyl azodicarboxylate to provide compounds of general formula XXXVIII . Compounds of general formula XXXVIII may be deprotected using hydrazine or methyl hydrazine to provide hydroxylamines of general formula XII a .

Compounds of formula XII a may be further modified by reductive amination with aldehydes or ketones using a reducing agent such as sodium triacetoxy borohydride sodium cyanoborohydride or borane pyridine in a solvent such as dichloroethane at a temperature of from ambient temperature to reflux. In addition compounds of formula XII a may be further modified by alkylation with an alkyl halide in the presence of a base such as triethylamine in a solvent such as dichloromethane to provide hydroxylamines of general formula XII b .

Alkyl halides of formula XL may be reacted with N hydroxy phthalimide in the presence of a base such as potassium carbonate in a solvent such as dimethyl sulfoxide at a temperature of from 10 C. to 50 C. Compounds of formula XLI may be converted to compounds of formula XII using the methods described for the conversion of compounds of formula XXXVIII to compounds of formula XII in Scheme 3.

Compounds of formula XLII may be reacted with N hydroxy phthalimide in the presence of a catalytic amount of a base such as DIPEA and a co catalyst such as tetra butyl ammonium bromide in a solvent such as toluene at a temperature of form 50 C. to reflux. Compounds of formula XLIII may be converted to compounds of formula XII using the methods described for the conversion of compounds of formula XXXVIII to compounds of formula XII in Scheme 3.

Anilines of general formula XXXI used in cross coupling reactions described above may be prepared by using methods described in the literature or according to Scheme 6.

Substituted 1 chloro 4 nitro benzene may be reacted with a metal RMXn such as cyclopropyl boronic acid or hexamethyldisilazane in a solvent such as xylene using a catalyst such as tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium at a temperature of from room temperature to reflux to give compounds of formula XXX . The nitro group may be reduced using methods described in the literature such as reaction under an atmosphere of hydrogen at a pressure of from 1 to 5 atmospheres in the presence of a catalyst such as palladium on carbon and in a solvent such as ethanol or ethyl acetate at room temperature to give compounds of formula XXXI .

4 Bromo or iodo anilines of formula LIV may be reacted with at least 2 equivalents of a strong organometallic base such as n butyllithium in a solvent such as THF at a temperature of from 100 C. to 20 C. followed by quench of the intermediate aryl lithium species with an electrophile such as trimethyl silyl chloride to give compounds of formula LV .

It will be appreciated that where appropriate functional groups exist compounds of formula I or any intermediates used in their preparation may be further derivatised by one or more standard synthetic methods employing substitution oxidation reduction or cleavage reactions. Particular substitution approaches include conventional alkylation arylation heteroarylation acylation sulfonylation halogenation nitration formylation and coupling procedures.

For example aryl bromide or chloride groups may be converted to aryl iodides using a Finkelstein reaction employing an iodide source such as sodium iodide a catalyst such as copper iodide and a ligand such as trans N N dimethyl 1 2 cyclohexane diamine in a solvent such as 1 4 dioxane and heating the reaction mixture at reflux temperature. Aryl trialkylsilanes may be converted to aryl iodides by treating the silane with an iodide source such as iodine monochloride in a solvent such as dichloromethane with or without Lewis acid such as silver tetrafluoroborate at a temperature from 40 C. to reflux.

In a further example primary amine NH groups may be alkylated using a reductive alkylation process employing an aldehyde or a ketone and a borohydride for example sodium triacetoxyborohydride or sodium cyanoborohydride in a solvent such as a halogenated hydrocarbon for example 1 2 dichloroethane or an alcohol such as ethanol where necessary in the presence of an acid such as acetic acid at around ambient temperature. Secondary amine NH groups may be similarly alkylated employing an aldehyde.

In a further example primary amine or secondary amine groups may be converted into amide groups NHCOR or NRCOR by acylation. Acylation may be achieved by reaction with an appropriate acid chloride in the presence of a base such as triethylamine in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane or by reaction with an appropriate carboxylic acid in the presence of a suitable coupling agent such HATU O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane. Similarly amine groups may be converted into sulfonamide groups NHSOR or NR SOR by reaction with an appropriate sulfonyl chloride in the presence of a suitable base such as triethylamine in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane. Primary or secondary amine groups can be converted into urea groups NHCONR R or NRCONR R by reaction with an appropriate isocyanate in the presence of a suitable base such as triethylamine in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane.

An amine NH may be obtained by reduction of a nitro NO group for example by catalytic hydrogenation using for example hydrogen in the presence of a metal catalyst for example palladium on a support such as carbon in a solvent such as ethyl acetate or an alcohol e.g. methanol. Alternatively the transformation may be carried out by chemical reduction using for example a metal e.g. tin or iron in the presence of an acid such as hydrochloric acid.

In a further example amine CHNH groups may be obtained by reduction of nitriles CN for example by catalytic hydrogenation using for example hydrogen in the presence of a metal catalyst for example palladium on a support such as carbon or Raney nickel in a solvent such as an ether e.g. a cyclic ether such as tetrahydrofuran at a temperature from 78 C. to the reflux temperature of the solvent.

In a further example amine NH groups may be obtained from carboxylic acid groups COH by conversion to the corresponding acyl azide CON Curtius rearrangement and hydrolysis of the resultant isocyanate N C O .

Aldehyde groups CHO may be converted to amine groups CHNR R by reductive amination employing an amine and a borohydride for example sodium triacetoxyborohydride or sodium cyanoborohydride in a solvent such as a halogenated hydrocarbon for example dichloromethane or an alcohol such as ethanol where necessary in the presence of an acid such as acetic acid at around ambient temperature.

In a further example aldehyde groups may be converted into alkenyl groups CH CHR by the use of a Wittig or Wadsworth Emmons reaction using an appropriate phosphorane or phosphonate under standard conditions known to those skilled in the art.

Aldehyde groups may be obtained by reduction of ester groups such as COEt or nitriles CN using diisobutylaluminium hydride in a suitable solvent such as toluene. Alternatively aldehyde groups may be obtained by the oxidation of alcohol groups using any suitable oxidising agent known to those skilled in the art.

Ester groups COR may be converted into the corresponding acid group COH by acid or base catalused hydrolysis depending on the nature of R. If R is t butyl acid catalysed hydrolysis can be achieved for example by treatment with an organic acid such as trifluoroacetic acid in an aqueous solvent or by treatment with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid in an aqueous solvent.

Carboxylic acid groups COH may be converted into amides CONHR or CONR R by reaction with an appropriate amine in the presence of a suitable coupling agent such as HATU in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane.

In a further example carboxylic acids may be homologated by one carbon i.e COH to CHCOH by conversion to the corresponding acid chloride COCl followed by Arndt Eistert synthesis.

In a further example OH groups may be generated from the corresponding ester e.g. COR or aldehyde CHO by reduction using for example a complex metal hydride such as lithium aluminium hydride in diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran or sodium borohydride in a solvent such as methanol. Alternatively an alcohol may be prepared by reduction of the corresponding acid COH using for example lithium aluminium hydride in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran or by using borane in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran.

Alcohol groups may be converted into leaving groups such as halogen atoms or sulfonyloxy groups such as an alkylsulfonyloxy e.g. trifluoromethylsulfonyloxy or arylsulfonyloxy e.g. p toluenesulfonyloxy group using conditions known to those skilled in the art. For example an alcohol may be reacted with thioyl chloride in a halogenated hydrocarbon e.g. dichloromethane to yield the corresponding chloride. A base e.g. triethylamine may also be used in the reaction.

In another example alcohol phenol or amide groups may be alkylated by coupling a phenol or amide with an alcohol in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran in the presence of a phosphine e.g. triphenylphosphine and an activator such as diethyl diisopropyl or dimethylazodicarboxylate. Alternatively alkylation may be achieved by deprotonation using a suitable base e.g. sodium hydride followed by subsequent addition of an alkylating agent such as an alkyl halide.

Aromatic halogen substituents in the compounds may be subjected to halogen metal exchange by treatment with a base for example a lithium base such as n butyl or t butyl lithium optionally at a low temperature e.g. around 78 C. in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran and then quenched with an electrophile to introduce a desired substituent. Thus for example a formyl group may be introduced by using N N dimethylformamide as the electrophile. Aromatic halogen substituents may alternatively be subjected to metal e.g. palladium or copper catalysed reactions to introduce for example acid ester cyano amide aryl heteraryl alkenyl alkynyl thio or amino substituents. Suitable procedures which may be employed include those described by Heck Suzuki Stille Buchwald or Hartwig.

Aromatic halogen substituents may also undergo nucleophilic displacement following reaction with an appropriate nucleophile such as an amine or an alcohol. Advantageously such a reaction may be carried out at elevated temperature in the presence of microwave irradiation.

The compounds of the present invention are tested for their capacity to inhibit MEK activity and activation primary assays and for their biological effects on growing cells secondary assays as described below. The compounds of the present invention having ICof less than 5 M more preferably less than 0.1 M most preferably less than 0.01 M in the MEK activity assay of Example 1 ICof less than 5 M more preferably less than 1 M even more preferably less than 0.1 M most preferably less than 0.01 M in the MEK activation assay of Example 2 ECof less than 10 M more preferably less than 1 M even more preferably less than 0.5 M most preferably less than 0.1 M in the cell proliferation assay of Example 3 and or ECof less than 10 M more preferably less than 1 M even more preferably less than 0.5 M most preferably less than 0.1 M in the ERK phosphorylation assay of Example 4 are useful as MEK inhibitors.

The present invention includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The present invention also includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further comprising a second chemotherapeutic and or a second anti inflammatory agent such as those described herein. The present compositions are useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human . The present compositions are also useful for treating inflammatory diseases in a mammal e.g. human .

The present compounds and compositions are also useful for treating an autoimmune disease destructive bone disorder proliferative disorders infectious disease viral disease fibrotic disease or neurodegenerative disease in a mammal e.g. human . Examples of such diseases disorders include but are not limited to diabetes and diabetic complications diabetic retinopathy retinopathy of prematurity age related macular degeneration hemangioma idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis rhinitis and atopic dermatitis renal disease and renal failure polycystic kidney disease congestive heart failure neurofibromatosis organ transplant rejection cachexia stroke septic shock heart failure organ transplant rejection Alzheimer s disease chronic or neuropathic pain and viral infections such as HIV hepatitis B virus HBV human papilloma virus HPV cytomegalovirus CMV and Epstein Barr virus EBV . Chronic pain for purposes of the present invention includes but is not limited to idiopathic pain and pain associated with chronic alcoholism vitamin deficiency uremia hypothyroidism inflammation arthritis and post operative pain. Neuropathic pain is associated with numerous conditions which include but are not limited to inflammation postoperative pain phantom limb pain burn pain gout trigeminal neuralgia acute herpetic and postherpetic pain causalgia diabetic neuropathy plexus avulsion neuroma vasculitis viral infection crush injury constriction injury tissue injury limb amputation arthritis pain and nerve injury between the peripheral nervous system and the central nervous system.

The present compounds and compositions are also useful for treating pancreatitis or kidney disease including proliferative glomerulonephritis and diabetes induced renal disease in a mammal e.g. human .

The present compounds and compositions are also useful for the prevention of blastocyte implantation in a mammal e.g. human .

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof. Also included in the present invention is a method of treating an inflammatory disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof.

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent such as those described herein. The present invention also includes a method of treating an inflammatory disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof in combination with a second anti inflammatory agent such as those described herein.

The present invention includes a method of treating an autoimmune disease destructive bone disorder proliferative disorders infectious disease viral disease fibrotic disease or neurodegenerative disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof and optionally further comprising a second therapeutic agent. Examples of such diseases disorders include but are not limited to diabetes and diabetic complications diabetic retinopathy retinopathy of prematurity age related macular degeneration hemangioma idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis rhinitis and atopic dermatitis renal disease and renal failure polycystic kidney disease congestive heart failure neurofibromatosis organ transplant rejection cachexia stroke septic shock heart failure organ transplant rejection Alzheimer s disease chronic or neuropathic pain and viral infections such as HIV hepatitis B virus HBV human papilloma virus HPV cytomegalovirus CMV and Epstein Barr virus EBV .

The present invention includes a method of treating pancreatitis or kidney disease including proliferative glomerulonephritis and diabetes induced renal disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof and optionally further comprising a second therapeutic agent.

The present invention includes a method for preventing of blastocyte implantation in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof and optionally further comprising a second therapeutic agent.

The present invention includes a method of using the present compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions.

It is also believed that the compounds of the present invention can render abnormal cells more sensitive to treatment with radiation for purposes of killing and or inhibiting the growth of such cells. Accordingly this invention further relates to a method for sensitizing abnormal cells in a mammal e.g. human to treatment with radiation which comprises administering to said mammal an amount of a compound of formula I and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof which amount is effective is sensitizing abnormal cells to treatment with radiation.

Administration of the compounds of the present invention hereinafter the active compound s can be effected by any method that enables delivery of the compounds to the site of action. These methods include oral routes intraduodenal routes parenteral injection including intravenous subcutaneous intramuscular intravascular or infusion topical inhalation and rectal administration.

The amount of the active compound administered will be dependent on the subject being treated the severity of the disorder or condition the rate of administration the disposition of the compound and the discretion of the prescribing physician. However an effective dosage is in the range of about 0.001 to about 100 mg per kg body weight per day preferably about 1 to about 35 mg kg day in single or divided doses. For a 70 kg human this would amount to about 0.05 to 7 g day preferably about 0.05 to about 2.5 g day. In some instances dosage levels below the lower limit of the aforesaid range may be more than adequate while in other cases still larger doses may be employed without causing any harmful side effect provided that such larger doses are first divided into several small doses for administration throughout the day.

The active compound may be applied as a sole therapy or in combination with one or more chemotherapeutic or anti inflammatory agents for example those described herein. Such conjoint treatment may be achieved by way of the simultaneous sequential or separate dosing of the individual components of treatment.

The pharmaceutical composition may for example be in a form suitable for oral administration as a tablet capsule pill powder sustained release formulations solution suspension for parenteral injection as a sterile solution suspension or emulsion for topical administration as an ointment or cream or for rectal administration as a suppository. The pharmaceutical composition may be in unit dosage forms suitable for single administration of precise dosages. The pharmaceutical composition will include a conventional pharmaceutical carrier or excipient and a compound according to the invention as an active ingredient. In addition it may include other medicinal or pharmaceutical agents carriers adjuvants etc.

Exemplary parenteral administration forms include solutions or suspensions of active compounds in sterile aqueous solutions for example aqueous propylene glycol or dextrose solutions. Such dosage forms can be suitably buffered if desired.

Suitable pharmaceutical carriers include inert diluents or fillers water and various organic solvents. The pharmaceutical compositions may if desired contain additional ingredients such as flavorings binders excipients and the like. Thus for oral administration tablets containing various excipients such as citric acid may be employed together with various disintegrants such as starch alginic acid and certain complex silicates and with binding agents such as sucrose gelatin and acacia. Additionally lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate sodium lauryl sulfate and talc are often useful for tableting purposes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules. Preferred materials therefore include lactose or milk sugar and high molecular weight polyethylene glycols. When aqueous suspensions or elixirs are desired for oral administration the active compound therein may be combined with various sweetening or flavoring agents coloring matters or dyes and if desired emulsifying agents or suspending agents together with diluents such as water ethanol propylene glycol glycerin or combinations thereof

Methods of preparing various pharmaceutical compositions with a specific amount of active compound are known or will be apparent to those skilled in this art. For examples see Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Company Ester Pa. 15.sup.th Edition 1975 .

High Pressure Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry LCMS experiments to determine retention times R and associated mass ions were performed using one of the following methods.

Method A Experiments performed on a Waters Micromass ZQ quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Hewlett Packard HP 1100 LC system with diode array detector. This system uses a Higgins Clipeus 5 micron C18 100 3.0 mm column and a 1 ml minute flow rate. The initial solvent system was 95 water containing 0.1 formic acid solvent A and 5 acetonitrile containing 0.1 formic acid solvent B for the first minute followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 14 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 5 minutes.

Method B Experiments performed on a Waters Platform LC quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Hewlett Packard HP1100 LC system with diode array detector and 100 position autosampler using a Phenomenex Luna C18 2 30 4.6 mm column and a 2 ml minute flow rate. The solvent system was 95 water containing 0.1 formic acid solvent A and 5 acetonitrile containing 0.1 formic acid solvent B for the first 0.50 minutes followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 4 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 0.50 minutes.

Microwave experiments were carried out using a Personal Chemistry Emrys Iniatiator or Optimizer which uses a single mode resonator and dynamic field tuning both of which give reproducibility and control. Temperature from 40 250 C. can be achieved and pressures of up to 20bar can be reached.

Constitutively activated human mutant MEK1 expressed in insect cells is used as source of enzymatic activity at a final concentration in the kinase assay of 15 nM.

The assay is carried out for 30 minutes in the presence of 50 M ATP using recombinant GST ERK1 produced in as substrate. Phosphorylation of the substrate is detected and quantified using HTRF reagents supplied by Cisbio. These consist of an anti GST antibody conjugated to allophycocyanin XL665 and an anti phospho Thr202 Tyr204 ERK antibody conjugated to europium cryptate. These are used at a final concentration of 4 g ml and 0.84 g ml respectively. The anti phospho antibody recognises ERK1 dually phosphorylated on Thr202 and Tyr204. When both antibodies are bound to ERK1 i.e. when the substrate is phosphorylated energy transfer from the cryptate to the allophycocyanin occurs following excitation at 340 nm resulting in fluorescence being emitted that is proportional to the amount of phosphorylated substrate produced. Fluorescence is detected using a multiwell fluorimeter.

Compounds are diluted in DMSO prior to addition to assay buffer and the final DMSO concentration in the assay is 1 .

The ICis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves 50 inhibition of control. ICvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

Constitutively activated bRaf mutant expressed in insect cells is used as source of enzymatic activity.

The assay is carried out for 30 minutes in the presence of 200 M ATP using recombinant GST MEK1 produced in as substrate. Phosphorylation of the substrate is detected and quantified using HTRF and reagents are supplied by Cisbio. These consist of an anti GST antibody conjugated to allophycocyanin XL665 and an anti phospho Ser217 Ser221 MEK antibody conjugated to europium cryptate. The anti phospho antibody recognises MEK dually phosphorylated on Ser217 and Ser221 or singly phosphorylated on Ser217. When both antibodies are bound to MEK i.e. when the substrate is phosphorylated energy transfer from the cryptate to the allophycocyanin occurs following excitation at 340 nm resulting in fluorescence being emitted that is proportional to the amount of phosphorylated substrate produced. Fluorescence is detected using a multi well fluorimeter.

Compounds are diluted in DMSO prior to addition to assay buffer and the final DMSO concentration in the assay is 1 .

The ICis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves 50 inhibition of control. ICvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

Both cell lines are maintained in DMEM F12 1 1 media Gibco supplemented with 10 FCS at 37 C. in a 5 COhumidified incubator.

Cells are seeded in 96 well plates at 2 000 cells well and after 24 hours they are exposed to different concentrations of compounds in 0.83 DMSO. Cells are grown for a further 72 h and an equal volume of CellTiter Glo reagent Promega is added to each well. This lyses the cells and generates a luminescent signal proportional to the amount of ATP released and therefore proportional to the number of cells in the well that can be detected using a multi well luminometer.

The ECis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves 50 inhibition of control. ICvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

In this assay title compounds of Examples 5 11 and 13 14 exhibited an ECof less than 10 M in both cell lines. Title compound of Example 12 exhibited an ECof less than 0.1 M in the HCT116 cell line.

Both cell lines are maintained in DMEM F12 1 1 media Gibco supplemented with 10 FCS at 37 C. in a 5 COhumidified incubator.

Cells are seeded in 96 well plates at 2 000 cells well and after 24 h they are exposed to different concentrations of compounds in 0.83 DMSO. Cells are grown for a further 2 h or 24 h fixed with formaldehyde 2 final and permeabilised with methanol. Following blocking with TBST 3 BSA fixed cells are incubated with primary antibody anti phospho ERK from rabbit over night at 4 C. Cells are incubated with Propidium Iodide DNA fluorescent dye and detection of cellular p ERK is performed using an anti rabbit secondary antibody conjugated to the fluorescent Alexa Fluor 488 dye Molecular probes . The fluorescence is analysed using the Acumen Explorer TTP Labtech a laser scanning microplate cytometer and the Alexa Fluor 488 signal is normalised to the PI signal proportional to cell number .

The ECis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves a signal half way between the baseline and the maximum response. ECvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

In this assay title compounds of Examples 5 11 and 13 14 exhibited an ECof less than 0.2 M in both cell lines. Title compound of Example 12 exhibited an ECof less than 0.2 M in the HCT116 cell line.

To a solution of diisopropylamine 7.0 mL 50 mmol in anhydrous THF 100 mL at 25 C. was added a 1.6M solution of nBuLi in hexanes 31 mL 50 mmol dropwise under an inert atmosphere. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 78 C. and 2 3 dichloropyridine was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 3 hours then poured onto solid carbon dioxide and aged for 18 hours at room temperature. The mixture was diluted with water 100 mL and washed with diethyl ether 3 40 mL then cooled to 0 C. acidified with concentrated HCl ca. 5 mL and extracted with diethyl ether 3 50 mL . The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated to give the title compound as a white solid 7.7 g 80 . H NMR d DMSO 400MHz 8.49 d J 5.0 Hz 1H 7.72 d J 5.0 Hz 1H .

To a suspension of 2 3 dichloro isonicotinic acid 7.7 g 40 mmol in dichloromethane 45 mL were added DMF 0.1 mL and oxalyl chloride 17.5 mL 200 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The resultant residue was azeotroped with toluene then cooled to 0 C. and dissolved in methanol 135 mL . The mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and then concentrated under reduced pressure to give a residue. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and the resulting solution was washed with a saturated solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate water and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated to give the title compound as a colourless oil that crystallised on standing 7.9 g 96 . H NMR CDCl 400MHz 8.38 d J 5.0 Hz 1H 7.52 d J 5.0 Hz 1H 3.99 s 3H .

A microwave vial was charged with 2 3 dichloro isonicotinic acid methyl ester 7.6 g 36.9 mmol zinc cyanide 4.75 g 40.6 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 1.0 g 0.9 mmol and DMF 37 mL then capped evacuated and backfilled with nitrogen. The reaction solution was subjected to microwave irradiation heating at 190 C. for 20 minutes then filtered through a pad of Celite which was washed further with ethyl acetate. The resulting mixture was washed with water followed by a saturated solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate then brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to column chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to give the title compound as a white solid 3.1 g 43 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.70 d J 5.0 Hz 1H 7.87 d J 5.0 Hz 1H 4.01 s 3H .

A mixture of 3 chloro 2 cyano isonicotinic acid methyl ester 2.9 g 14.8 mmol and 10 palladium on charcoal 293 mg in acetic acid 65 mL was degassed and backfilled with hydrogen three times. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature under an atmosphere of hydrogen 1 bar for 18 hours and then filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to give a residue which was dissolved in methanol and loaded onto a 50 g Isolute SCX 2 cartridge eluted with methanol followed by a 2M solution of ammonia in methanol. The appropriate fractions were combined and concentrated under reduced pressure to give a residue. The residue was dissolved in a mixture of formic acid 40 mL and acetic anhydride 8 mL which was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The solvents were removed under reduced pressure to give a residue which was dissolved in dichloromethane. The resulting solution was washed with a saturated solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate the aqueous layer was separated and extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic extracts were passed through a phase separator and concentrated under reduced pressure to give a residue that was subjected to column chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 10 methanol in dichloromethane . The title compound was obtained as a white solid 1.5 g 44 . LCMS method B R 2.15 min M H 229.

A mixture of 3 chloro 2 formylaminomethyl isonicotinic acid methyl ester 1.5 g 6.6 mmol and phosphorous oxychloride 1.3 mL 14.2 mmol in toluene 80 mL was stirred at 90 C. for 15 minutes then cooled to room temperature and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate. The organic layer was separated and washed with water and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated to give the title compound as a pale yellow solid 1.3 g 93 . LCMS method B R 2.38 min M H 211.

A suspension of 8 chloro imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid methyl ester 105 mg 0.50 mmol 4 cyclopropyl 2 fluoroaniline 101 mg 0.60 mmol Pddba 18 mg 0.02 mmol 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 6 diisopropoxybiphenyl 37 mg 0.08 mmol and KPO 148 mg 0.70 mmol in toluene 2 mL was degassed and then heated to 100 C. for 24 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature and diluted with ethyl acetate. The resultant solution was washed with water and brine then loaded onto a 10 g Isolute SCX 2 cartridge which was eluted with methanol followed by a 2M solution of ammonia in methanol. The appropriate fractions were combined and concentrated. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 10 ethyl acetate in dichloromethane to afford the title compound as a yellow oil 68 mg 42 . LCMS method B R 3.45 min M H 326.

A suspension of 8 4 cyclopropyl 2 fluoro phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid methyl ester 0.28 g 0.86 mmol and 1M NaOH 1.03 mL 1.03 mmol in IMS 5 mL was heated to 65 C. for 5 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature and 1M HCl was added to adjust pH to 2. The precipitate formed was filtered off and dried in a drying pistol at 40 C. for 18 hours to afford the title compound as a cream solid 0.22 g 81 . LCMS method B R 2.84 min M H 312.

To a solution of 8 4 cyclopropyl 2 fluoro phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid methyl ester 23 mg 0.07 mmol in IMS 1.0 mL was added a 1.0 M aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 0.10 mL 0.10 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated to 65 C. for 1 hour and then cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was azeotroped with toluene and then dissolved in DMF 1 mL . Ammonium chloride 7 mg 0.13 mmol N N diisopropylethylamine 47 uL 0.27 mmol and HATU 51 mg 0.13 mmol were added sequentially before the reaction mixture was stirred for 18 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then diluted with methanol and loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge 5 g . The cartridge was then washed with methanol and the desired product was subsequently eluted using 2M NHin MeOH. The eluent was collected and concentrated to give a residue. The residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 5 methanol in dichloromethane to afford the title compound as a pale yellow solid 5 mg 23 . LCMS method A R 6.64 min M H 311. H NMR CDOD 8.18 1H d J 0.88 Hz 7.64 1H dd J 7.40 0.97 Hz 7.13 1H t J 8.28 Hz 6.93 6.86 3 H m 6.35 1H s 1.98 1.90 1 H m 1.05 0.97 2 H m 0.73 0.68 2H m .

To a solution of 8 4 cyclopropyl 2 fluoro phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid methyl ester 68 mg 0.21 mmol in IMS 2.5 mL was added a 1.0 M aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 0.25 mL 0.25 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 65 C. for 1 hour and then cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was azeotroped with toluene and then suspended in THF 4 mL . 042 Vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 43 mg 0.42 mmol N N diisopropylethylamine 0.14 mL 0.84 mmol EDCI 81 mg 0.42 mmol and HOBt 57 mg 0.42 mmol were then added sequentially before the reaction mixture was stirred for 18 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and brine before being dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 5 methanol in dichloromethane to afford the title compound as a pale yellow oil 56 mg 67 . LCMS method B R 3.02 min M H 397.

8 4 Cyclopropyl 2 fluoro phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 56 mg 0.14 mmol was dissolved in methanol and loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge 5 g . The cartridge was then washed with methanol and the desired product was subsequently eluted using 2M NHin MeOH. The eluent was collected and concentrated to give a residue. The residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 20 methanol in dichloromethane to afford the title compound as a pale yellow solid 37 mg 71 . LCMS method A R 6.40 min M H 371. H NMR CHOH d 8.20 1 H d J 0.71 Hz 7.67 7.65 1 H m 7.17 7.11 1 H m 6.94 6.87 2H m 6.73 1 H d J 7.38 Hz 6.39 1 H s 4.00 3.97 2 H m 3.75 3.72 2 H m 1.98 1.89 1 H m 1.04 0.98 2 H m 0.73 0.68 2 H m .

A suspension of 8 chloro imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid methyl ester 223 mg 1.06 mmol 2 fluoro 4 methylsulfanyl phenylamine 200 mg 1.27 mmol Pddba 39 mg 0.04 mmol 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 6 diisopropoxybiphenyl 79 mg 0.17 mmol and KPO 315 mg 1.48 mmol in toluene 4 mL was degassed and then heated at 100 C. for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature and diluted with ethyl acetate. The resultant mixture was washed with water followed by brine before being loaded onto a 10 g Isolute SCX 2 cartridge which was eluted with methanol and then a 2M solution of ammonia in methanol. The appropriate fractions were combined and concentrated in vacuo to give a residue. The residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 10 ethyl actetate in dichloromethane to afford the title compound as a yellow oil 136 mg 39 . LCMS method B R 3.26 min M H 332.

To a solution of 8 2 fluoro 4 methylsulfanyl phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid methyl ester 136 mg 0.41 mmol in IMS 10 mL was added a 1.0 M aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 0.82 mL 0.82 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 65 C. for 1 hour and then cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was azeotroped with toluene and then suspended in THF 10 mL . O 2 Vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 84 mg 0.82 mmol N N diisopropylethylamine 0.28 mL 1.64 mmol EDCI 157 mg 0.82 mmol and HOBt 111 mg 0.82 mmol were then added sequentially before the reaction mixture was stirred for 18 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in dichloromethane to afford the title compound as a pale yellow oil 160 mg 97 . LCMS method B R 2.91 min M H 403.

8 2 Fluoro 4 methylsulfanyl phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 160 mg 0.40 mmol was dissolved in methanol and loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge 10 g . The cartridge was then washed with methanol and the desired product was subsequently eluted using 2M NHin MeOH. The eluent was collected and concentrated to give a residue which was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 10 methanol in dichloromethane to afford the title compound as a pale yellow solid 77 mg 51 . LCMS method A R 5.96 min M H 377. H NMR DMSO d 11.54 1 H s 10.51 1 H s 8.29 1 H d J 0.80 Hz 7.80 1 H dd J 7.37 0.94 Hz 7.24 7.16 2 H m 7.06 1 H dd J 8.38 2.11 Hz 6.80 6.74 1 H m 6.39 1 H s 4.70 1 H s 3.86 2 H t J 4.95 Hz 3.57 2 H t J 4.95 Hz 2.49 3 H s .

A suspension of 8 chloro imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid methyl ester 500 mg 2.38 mmol 4 bromo 2 fluoroaniline 543 mg 2.86 mmol Pddba 110 mg 0.12 mmol 2 dicyclohexylFphosphino 2 6 diisopropoxybiphenyl 224 mg 0.48 mmol and KPO 710 mg 3.33 mmol in toluene 10 mL was degassed and then heated at 100 C. for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature diluted with ethyl acetate and filtered. The filtrate was washed with water and brine then loaded onto a 10 g Isolute SCX 2 cartridge which was eluted with methanol and then a 2M solution of ammonia in methanol. The appropriate fractions were combined and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 20 ethyl actetate in DCM to afford the title compound as a yellow oil 240 mg 28 . LCMS method B R 3.40 min M H 364 366.

A mixture of 8 4 bromo 2 fluoro phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid methyl ester 235 mg 0.65 mmol copper I iodide 6 mg 0.03 mmol sodium iodide 195 mg 1.3 mmol and trans N N dimethyl 1 2 cyclohexane diamine 0.01 mL 0.06 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 1.0 mL was heated at 110 C. for 26 hours under an argon atmosphere. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature diluted with methanol and loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge 10 g . The cartridge was then washed with methanol and the desired product was subsequently eluted using 2M NHin MeOH. The eluent was collected and concentrated to give a residue. The residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 20 ethyl acetate in dichloromethane to afford the title compound as a pale yellow solid 182 mg 67 . LCMS method B R 3.45 min M H 412.

To a solution of 8 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid methyl ester 200 mg 0.49 mmol in IMS 10 mL was added a 1.0 M aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 1.0 mL 1.0 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 65 C. for 2 hours and then cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was azeotroped with toluene and then suspended in THF 10 mL . O 2 Vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 103 mg 1.0 mmol N N diisopropylethylamine 0.34 mL 1.96 mmol EDCI 192 mg 1.0 mmol and HOBt 135 mg 1.0 mmol were then added sequentially before the reaction mixture was stirred 18 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water followed by a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and then brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in dichloromethane to afford the title compound as a pale yellow oil 151 mg 64 . LCMS method B R 3.05 min M H 483.

8 2 Fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 151 mg 0.31 mmol was dissolved in methanol and loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge 10 g . The cartridge was then washed with methanol and the desired product was subsequently eluted using 2M NHin MeOH. Appropriate fractions were combined and concentrated to give a residue that was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 10 methanol in dichloromethane to afford the title compound as a pale yellow solid 115 mg 81 . LCMS method A R 6.36 min M H 457. H NMR CDOD 8.27 1H d J 0.85 Hz 7.80 7.77 1H m 7.57 7.53 1H m 7.49 7.46 1H m 6.95 1H t J 8.48 Hz 6.76 1 H d J 7.37 Hz 6.68 1H s 4.00 3.94 2 H m 3.75 3.71 2 H m .

A suspension of 8 4 cyclopropyl 2 fluoro phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid 0.11 g 0.35 mmol EDCI 0.081 g 0.42 mmol HOBt 0.057 g 0.42 mmol DIPEA 0.085 mL 0.88 mmol and S 1 aminooxy propan 2 ol hydrochloride 0.05 g 0.39 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was partitioned between DCM 5 mL and saturated aqueous NaHCO 5 mL . The organic layer was washed with water 5 mL followed by brine 5 mL then dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 60 ethyl actetate in DCM to give a yellow sticky solid which was further purified by preparative HPLC Gemini 5 micron C250 21.20 mm column 0.1 formic acid gradient acetonitrile water 5 to 98 ramp time 20 minutes to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 38 mg 27 . LCMS method A R 6.87 min M H 385. H NMR DMSO d 10.54 1H s 8.27 1 H s 7.76 1H dd J 7.37 0.93 Hz 7.14 1H t J 8.37 Hz 6.98 1H dd J 11.87 1.95 Hz 6.95 6.89 1H m 6.76 1H d J 7.33 Hz 6.27 1H s 3.89 3.79 1H m 3.72 3.62 2H m 1.99 1.90 1H m 1.04 3H d J 6.34 Hz 0.99 0.93 2H m 0.76 0.67 2H m .

A suspension of 8 4 cyclopropyl 2 fluoro phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid 0.11 g 0.35 mmol EDCI 0.081 g 0.42 mmol HOBt 0.057 g 0.42 mmol DIPEA 0.085 mL 0.88 mmol and 2 aminooxy 2 methyl propan 1 ol hydrochloride 0.055 g 0.39 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was partitioned between DCM 5 mL and saturated aqueous NaHCO 5 ml . The organic layer was washed with water 5 mL followed by brine 5 mL then dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 40 ethyl actetate in DCM to give a yellow solid which was further purified by preparative HPLC Gemini 5 micron C250 21.20 mm column 0.1 formic acid gradient acetonitrile water 5 to 98 ramp time 20 minutes to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 11 mg 8 . LCMS method A R 7.57 min M H 399. H NMR DMSO d 10.37 1H s 8.28 1H s 7.79 1H dd J 7.35 0.95 Hz 7.14 1H s 7.02 6.93 1H m 6.91 1H d J 8.28 Hz 6.82 1H s 6.27 1H s 1.99 1.90 1H m 1.15 6H s 0.99 0.92 2H m 0.73 0.67 2H m .

To a solution of 8 4 bromo 2 fluoro phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid methyl ester 50 mg 0.14 mmol in IMS 3 mL was added a 1.0 M aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 0.3 mL 0.3 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 65 C. for 2 hours and then cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was azeotroped with toluene and then suspended in THF 3 mL . O 2 Vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 29 mg 0.28 mmol N N diisopropylethylamine 0.10 mL 0.56 mmol EDCI 54 mg 0.28 mmol and HOBt 38 mg 0.28 mmol were then added sequentially before the reaction mixture was stirred 18 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water followed by a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and brine. The organic layer was isolated dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in dichloromethane to afford the title compound as a pale yellow oil 40 mg 65 . LCMS method B R 2.98 min M H 435 437.

8 4 Bromo 2 fluoro phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 40 mg 0.09 mmol was dissolved in methanol and loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge 5 g . The cartridge was then washed with methanol and the desired product was subsequently eluted using 2M NHin MeOH. Appropriate fractions were combined and concentrated to give a residue that was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 20 methanol in dichloromethane to afford the title compound as a pale yellow solid 11 mg 29 . LCMS method A R 6.06 min M H 409 411. H NMR CDOD 8.27 1 H d J 0.85 Hz 7.79 1 H dd J 7.39 0.97 Hz 7.42 1 H dd J 10.00 2.19 Hz 7.31 1 H ddd J 8.53 2.20 1.19 Hz 7.12 1 H t J 8.60 Hz 6.79 6.73 1 H m 6.65 1 H s 3.97 2 H t J 4.69 Hz 3.73 2 H t J 4.68 Hz .

To a solution of 8 4 bromo 2 fluoro phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid methyl ester 587 mg 1.61 mmol in IMS 20 mL was added a 1.0 M aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 1.7 mL 1.7 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 65 C. for 2 hours and then cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was azeotroped with toluene and then suspended in dioxane 15 mL . EDCI 614 mg 3.2 mmol and HOBt 432 mg 3.2 mmol were then added before the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min at room temperature. S 1 Aminooxy propan 2 ol hydrochloride 408 mg 3.20 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 1.1 mL 6.44 mmol were then added sequentially before the reaction mixture was stirred for 18 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then concentrated under reduced pressure. The resultant residue was taken up in ethyl acetate then washed with water followed by a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 10 methanol in dichloromethane . The appropriate fractions were combined and concentrated to give a residue that was subjected to HPLC Gemini 5 micron C250 21.20 mm column 0.1 formic acid acetonitrile in water gradient 5 to 85 ramp time 20 minutes to afford the title compound as a pale yellow solid 180 mg 26 . LCMS method A R 6.55 min M H 423 425. H NMR CDCl 10.46 1H s 8.75 1H s 7.99 1H s 7.39 1H d J 7.36 Hz 7.32 1H dd J 9.31 2.15 Hz 7.28 1H d J 8.83 Hz 7.12 1H t J 8.38 Hz 6.63 1H s 6.46 1H d J 7.33 Hz 4.10 4.01 1H m 3.93 1H dd J 11.43 2.28 Hz 3.70 1H t J 10.42 Hz 1.14 3H d J 6.47 Hz .

A suspension of 8 chloro imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid methyl ester 300 mg 1.43 mmol 4 bromo 2 chloroaniline 354 mg 1.72 mmol Pddba 65 mg 0.07 mmol 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 6 diisopropoxybiphenyl 131 mg 0.28 mmol and KPO 424 mg 2.00 mmol in toluene 5 ml was degassed and then heated at 110 C. for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature and diluted with ethyl acetate. The resultant mixture was washed with water and brine then loaded onto a 10 g Isolute SCX 2 cartridge which was eluted with methanol and then a 2M solution of ammonia in methanol. The appropriate fractions were combined and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 ethyl actetate in DCM to afford the title compound as a yellow oil 271 mg 50 . LCMS method B R 3.65 min M H 381 383.

To a solution of 8 4 bromo 2 chloro phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid methyl ester 271 mg 0.71 mmol in IMS 10 mL was added a 1.0 M aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 0.8 mL 0.8 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 65 C. for 1 hour and then cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was azeotroped with toluene and then suspended in THF 10 mL . O 2 Vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 89 mg 0.87 mmol N N diisopropylethylamine 0.30 mL 1.73 mmol EDCI 166 mg 0.87 mmol and HOBt 117 mg 0.87 mmol were then added sequentially before the reaction mixture was stirred 18 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water followed by a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and then brine. The isolated organic layer was dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound as a pale yellow solid 210 mg 65 . LCMS method B R 3.17 min M H 451 453.

8 4 Bromo 2 chloro phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 196 mg 0.43 mmol was dissolved in methanol and loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge 10 g . The cartridge was then washed with methanol and the desired product was subsequently eluted using 2M NHin MeOH. Appropriate fractions were combined and concentrated to give a residue that was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 10 methanol in dichloromethane . The appropriate fractions were combined and concentrated to give a residue that was subjected to HPLC Preparative Ccolumn 0.1 formic acid acetonitrile in water gradient 5 to 98 ramp time 20 minutes to afford the title compound as a pale yellow solid 43 mg 23 . LCMS method A R 6.71 min M H 425 427. H NMR DMSO d 11.68 1H s 10.46 1H s 8.35 1H d J 0.79 Hz 7.95 1H d J 7.36 Hz 7.78 1H d J 2.27 Hz 7.42 1H dd J 8.62 2.29 Hz 7.01 1H d J 8.63 Hz 6.79 1H d J 7.35 Hz 6.56 1H s 4.69 1H s 3.87 2H t J 4.89 Hz 3.57 2H m .

A solution of trifluoro methanesulfonic acid 3 fluoro 4 nitro phenyl ester 1.8 g 6.2 mmol cyclobutyl boronic acid 0.78 g 7.5 mmol Pd dppf Cl 0.40 g 0.5 mmol and 2M aqueous cesium carbonate aq 5 mL 9.9 mmol in toluene 10 ml was degassed with argon for 10 minutes and then heated to 90 C. for 2.5 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature and filtered through hyflo . The reaction mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate 70 mL and water 70 mL . The organic layer was isolated then washed with brine 50 mL dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant solid was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 30 DCM in pentane to afford the title compound as a yellow liquid 0.504 g 42 . H NMR DMSO d 8.08 1H t J 8.3 Hz 7.44 1H d J 13.2 Hz 7.28 1H d J 8.5 Hz 3.65 1H m 2.33 2H m 2.13 2H m 1.99 1H m 1.84 1H m .

A solution of 4 cyclobutyl 2 fluoro nitrobenzene 0.5 g 2.6 mmol in IMS 5 mL was degassed with argon for 2 minutes before 10 Pd C 0.05 g was added and a balloon of hydrogen affixed. The resultant mixture was stirred for 18 hours at room temperature before being flushed with nitrogen and filtered through hyflo . The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound as an orange red oil 0.31 g 74 . H NMR CDCl 6.84 1H d J 12.3 Hz 6.77 1H d J 8.1 Hz 6.70 1H t J 9.1 Hz 3.58 2H broad 3.42 1H m 2.28 2H m 2.01 3H m 1.82 1H m .

A suspension of 8 chloro imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid methyl ester 250 mg 1.2 mmol 4 cyclobutyl 2 fluoroaniline 230 mg 1.4 mmol Pddba 43 mg 0.047 mmol 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 6 dimethoxy 1 1 biphenyl 80 mg 0.19 mmol and KPO 350 mg 1.7 mmol in toluene 5 ml was degassed with argon for 10 minutes and then heated at 100 C. for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature and filtered through hyflo . The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the resultant gum was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC eluting with 5 ethyl acetate in DCM to afford the title compound as a yellow oil 150 mg 38 . H NMR CDC1 7.95 1H s 7.73 1H d J 7.4 Hz 7.23 1H t J 8.6 Hz 7.07 1H d J 7.3 Hz 7.01 2H m 6.50 1H s 3.90 3H s 3.59 1H m 2.39 2H m 2.17 2H m 2.06 1H m 1.93 1H m .

A suspension of 8 4 cyclobutyl 2 fluoro phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid methyl ester 150 mg 0.46 mmol and 1M NaOH 1.5 mL 1.5 mmol in IMS 2 mL was heated at 60 C. for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature diluted with water and glacial acetic acid was added to adjust pH to 4. The precipitate was filtered off and dried in a drying pistol at 40 C. for 18 hours to afford the title compound as a cream solid 154 mg 99 . H NMR DMSO d 10.53 1 H s 8.34 1 H s 7.74 1 H d J 7.3 Hz 7.35 1 H t J 8.3 Hz 7.24 1 H d J 11.2 Hz 7.13 1 H d J 8.1 Hz 7.01 1H d J 9.3 Hz 6.23 1H s 3.61 1 H m 2.38 2 H m 2.14 2 H m 1.99 1 H m 1.84 1 H m .

A suspension of 8 4 cyclobutyl 2 fluoro phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid 154 mg 0.46 mmol EDCI 105 mg 0.55 mmol HOBt 74 mg 0.55 mmol DIPEA 0.19 mL 1.14 mmol and O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 52 mg 0.50 mmol in THF 2.5 mL was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was partitioned between DCM 20 mL and saturated aqueous NaHCO. The organic layer was isolated then washed with water 20 mL followed by brine 20 mL dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant gum was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 ethyl actetate in cyclohexane to afford the title compound as a brown gum 149 mg 80 . LCMS method B R 3.49 min M H 411.

8 4 Cyclobutyl 2 fluoro phenylamino imidazo 1 5 a pyridine 7 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 149 mg 0.36 mmol was dissolved in methanol 2 mL and treated with 1M HCl 1.5 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The solvents were removed in vacuo and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC Gemini 5 micron C250 21.20 mm column 0.1 formic acid gradient acetonitrile water 5 to 98 ramp time 20 minutes to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 16 mg 11 . LCMS method A R 7.40 min M H 385. H NMR DMSO d 11.59 1H s 10.60 1H s 8.32 1H s 7.82 1H d J 7.7 Hz 7.24 1H d J 8.5 Hz 7.15 1H d J 11.2 Hz 7.07 1H d J 8.11 Hz 6.79 1H d J 7.3 Hz 6.33 1H s 4.73 1H s 3.69 2H t J 4.8 Hz 3.61 2H t J 5.0 Hz 3.57 1H d J 8.8 Hz 2.36 2H m 2.12 2H m 1.96 1H m 1.83 1H m .

