---

title: For and method of providing portfolio risk information to investors without revealing position information
abstract: A system for and method of providing investors with risk information regarding a portfolio, while protecting a strategy associated with the portfolio from public disclosure, is presented. The information allows investors to calculate a variety of risk statistics at virtually any level of granularity in analyzing divisions of the portfolio. The system and method also provide benefits for portfolio managers. Specifically, a portfolio manager may release detailed simulated returns, from which investors may calculate a variety of risk statistics, without revealing position information sufficient for the investors to reverse engineer a strategy associated with the portfolio.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08924274&OS=08924274&RS=08924274
owner: Riskmetrics Solutions, LLC
number: 08924274
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081210
---
The present invention generally relates to a computer implemented technique for calculating and providing to investors statistical risk information regarding a portfolio. The invention further relates to preventing investors from reverse engineering the portfolio s associated investment strategy.

Certain embodiments of the present invention provide benefits to both investors and portfolio managers. Certain embodiments of the present invention provide investors with detailed risk information regarding an investment portfolio without revealing the underlying positions of the portfolio or the associated investment strategy. In particular certain embodiments of the present invention provide to investors simulated returns and the mathematical models and analytical framework used to generate the simulated returns including any utilized risk factors and scenarios. Such embodiments further provide investors with access to analytics engines which the investors may direct to calculate a variety of risk statistics using the provided information. Importantly portfolio managers need not provide to investors any portfolio position information yet the investors may calculate a variety of detailed risk statistics. In some embodiments portfolio position information never leaves the control of the portfolio mangers and is thus never made available to any third party such as investors yet the investors may calculate detailed risk statistics as if they had full access to detailed position information. Portfolio managers benefit by being able to provide investors with detailed risk information without having to reveal portfolio position information or portfolio strategy information.

A portfolio according to an embodiment of the invention may include by way of non limiting example any or a combination of hedge fund shares from one or more hedge funds mutual fund shares from one or more mutual funds equities e.g. stocks debts e.g. corporate bonds treasuries and derivatives e.g. options puts calls futures .

A portfolio may be managed by one or more portfolio managers e.g. one manager for each fund having shares in the portfolio . Portfolio managers herein managers are generally responsible for making strategic investment decisions for the portfolio or a portion thereof. In particular the managers select and change investment positions on an ongoing basis. As used herein the term position means the contents of the portfolio typically expressed in terms of the smallest unit that may be invested in. A position may include long and short positions such as open contracts to buy financial instruments for addition to the portfolio e.g. calls and open contracts to sell financial instruments currently in the portfolio e.g. puts .

Managers typically employ particular strategies in managing their portfolios e.g. for changing and maintaining portfolio positions. Different strategies may focus on different aspects of a portfolio. For example strategies may focus on the type of instrument in the portfolio e.g. equities fixed income instruments futures options or the sector of the instruments in the portfolio e.g. health care emerging market high technology . Other strategies may employ specific quantitative methods to determine whether the asking prices of certain instruments are below the actual value of such instruments. As a specific example one strategy is to populate the portfolio with European put and call options purchased only when the asking price is below a price calculated using an options pricing formula such as the celebrated Black Scholes formula. This strategy may involve exercising the options when in the money on the strike date. Note that in general a single portfolio may have one or more than one associated strategy e.g. a different strategy for each fund in the portfolio . Accordingly throughout this disclosure the term strategy embraces both the singular and the plural.

In general portfolio strategies are closely guarded trade secrets in that their details are not revealed and in that they derive independent economic value from not being generally known. However successful portfolios tend to attract attention and with that attention attempts to determine the portfolio s strategy. Thus competing managers may attempt to determine the strategy behind successful portfolios and use such information to their advantage e.g. by implementing the strategy in their own portfolio . Attempts to deduce a portfolio s strategy may proceed by reverse engineering the strategy from position information of the portfolio. That is knowledge of a portfolio s current and historical position information may be sufficient to determine the portfolio s associated strategy. Accordingly managers tend to keep position information secret so that it cannot be used to derive the portfolio s strategy. In particular investors generally do not know the position information of portfolios in which they invest or the specific strategy being implemented by the managers.

Note that general information regarding the contents of a portfolio such as market segment is not considered position information and does not rise to the level of a strategy. Thus managers may reveal that their portfolio contains for example commodities or that it contains indexes or that it contains Asian blue chip stocks. These facts would not be considered position information and would not reveal the underlying strategy of the portfolio. Position information as that term finds meaning herein refers to detailed information concerning changes in position sufficient to reverse engineer a portfolio s strategy. Likewise strategy as that term finds meaning herein refers to a technique for determining when and what changes to make in a portfolio s positions.

Investors are generally interested in knowing risk statistics regarding their investment portfolio. Such statistics include by way of non limiting example value at risk VaR and conditional value at risk C VaR also known as expected shortfall. Such statistics allow the investor to assess whether the investment is prudent in view of its returns which are typically published and its risks which are reflected in the risk statistics themselves. Certain risk statistics may be calculated from portfolio position information. Managers generally have access to all information regarding a portfolio including position information from which they can derive risk statistics. Investors on the other hand generally do not know position information for the portfolio in which they invest. However certain risk statistics may alternately be calculated without knowledge of position information. As discussed in detail below certain risk statistics may be calculated using a plurality of simulated returns from which a portfolio s strategy cannot be ascertained. Thus certain embodiments of the present invention provide investors with information sufficient to calculate a variety of detailed risk statistics without the information being sufficient to deduce the portfolio s associated strategy.

Monte Carlo simulations may be used to generate risk and other statistics regarding a portfolio. In general a Monte Carlo simulation repeatedly utilizes a mathematical model which accepts a plurality of inputs and computes an output. As used herein all mathematical models are computer implemented. One of the inputs to the mathematical model is a random variable. Thus Monte Carlo simulations further utilize a source of randomness such as a list of random numbers a random number generator or a pseudorandom number generator. A Monte Carlo simulation may proceed by inputting a set of input parameters including a random number to the mathematical model which proceeds to calculate an output. The process of inputting a set of parameters is repeated multiple times e.g. tens of times hundreds of times thousands of times ten thousands of times hundred thousands of times each time with a different random or pseudorandom number and each output from the mathematical model is recorded. The set of outputs may then be processed to compute a result. Such process may include for example calculating an average of all outputs.

The mathematical model used in a Monte Carlo simulation may output a predicted value of a portfolio on a future specified date assuming a particular set of market conditions as inputs to the model. If multiple dates are selected the model may output a time series. In general the term time series refers to a collection of parameters indexed by time such as date. Time series may be used as inputs to mathematical models and may be output from a mathematical model. The real or hypothetical market conditions input to a mathematical model as well as its output are referred to herein as a market scenario or simply scenario. Note that scenarios may include simulated hypothetical or actual historical data predicted future data or combinations thereof. Thus a mathematical model may accept as inputs a set of hypothetical market conditions and a random number the inputs to the model and output a predicted value of the portfolio on the specified date under the specified market conditions. By way of non limiting example the random number may be transformed to a random London Inter Bank Offered Rate LIBOR interest rate an internationally recognized baseline interest rate which affects a large variety of market parameters. This transformation may be accomplished by way of non limiting example by multiplying the random number by a selected baseline LIBOR rate.

A simulated return also called a simulated profit and loss or simulated P L reflects a simulated profit or loss of a portfolio or portion thereof. Simulated returns may be expressed as a difference between a value of a portfolio or portion thereof according to a baseline market scenario and a predicted value of the portfolio or portion thereof according to a different market scenario sometime in the future. This latter quantity may be computed using a mathematical model as discussed above. Thus a difference between the predicted value and the baseline value represents a simulated return. Alternately simulated returns may be expressed as an absolute value of a portfolio as predicted on one or more future dates. Note that a simulated return may be expressed as a percentage an absolute currency amount or in terms of basis points. In short a simulated return provides a predicted amount of the value of a portfolio or portion thereof sometime in the future whether the simulated return is expressed as a difference an absolute currency value a percentage or in terms of basis points.

A portion of a Monte Carlo simulation may be used to repeatedly compute predicted portfolio values under a number of different scenarios. Thus a portion of a Monte Carlo simulation may be used to generate a plurality of simulated returns. Note that the portion of the Monte Carlo simulation need not be a complete Monte Carlo simulation in that it need not produce a final result from the simulated returns. That is a Monte Carlo simulation excluding a computation of a final result may be used to generate a plurality of simulated returns. The scenarios simulated returns and the model used to generate the simulated returns are made available to investors as discussed in detail elsewhere herein. Investors may then use the simulated returns to calculate a variety of risk parameters such as VaR.

Importantly it is generally impossible to determine a portfolio s positions from knowledge of its simulated returns. That is an investor armed with complete knowledge of the mathematical model used to generate a set of simulated returns together with a full set of simulated returns and their associated scenarios would not have enough information to deduce the portfolio s positions or its associated strategy.

Note that in general simulated returns may be calculated as follows. For a particular portfolio partition risk factors may be identified. Risk factors include by way of non limiting example time series representing equity prices foreign exchange spot rates e.g. in the form of prices of unit amounts of foreign currencies commodity spot and futures prices and interest rates e.g. in the form of prices of zero coupon bonds . Risk factors may be thought of as financial primitives as discussed in Jorge Mina and Jerry Yi Xiao RiskMetrics Group April 2001 in that virtually any financial instrument may be modeled using a small set of risk factors. Once the risk factors for a particular portfolio partition are identified the risk factors may be passed through a mathematic model in a portion of a Monte Carlo simulation as discussed above in order to predict future values e.g. in order to extend the existing time series into the future . The extended risk factors may then be used to calculate simulated returns for the associated portfolio parts. This process is discussed in detail in the above referenced article of Mina and Xiao. Thus the simulated returns may be calculated on the level of portfolio parts or on the level of risk factors. Note that the risk factor definitions and the analytical framework from within which they may be used to calculate simulated returns may be made available to investors as discussed herein.

Certain embodiments of the present invention provide investors access to detailed simulated returns without revealing information sufficient to determine the portfolio positions or its associated strategy. Such embodiments may allow managers to input into a programmed computer position and other information regarding their portfolio. The system may use this information together with market data predicted market data random numbers and possibly risk factors to perform a portion of a Monte Carlo simulation and generate simulated returns. The system makes the simulated returns available to the investors via for example a website. The system also makes the mathematical model used to calculate the simulated returns available to the investors in the same manner. The system also makes available the definitions of any risk factors and how they may be used to calculate the simulated returns available to the investors in the same manner. The system may make none some or all of the scenario input data available to the investors in the same manner. In some embodiments all of the input information is made available including the random number values. In such embodiments the random number values may be made available outright e.g. as a computer readable list or a flat file or the technique used to generate them may be made available e.g. by specifying a pseudorandom number generator and a seed value . In some embodiments the input information excluding for the random numbers may be made available to the investors. In such embodiments statistical information regarding the random numbers may be made available to investors such as by way of non limiting example mean variance standard deviation and distribution type e.g. normal uniform etc. . Thus in some embodiments all analytical framework and parameters used to calculate the simulated returns except portfolio position information may be made available to investors via for example a website.

Note that simulated returns may be calculated for an entire portfolio at the level of an individual instrument in the portfolio or an any level of granularity in between. By way of non limiting example simulated returns may be calculated for portions of a portfolio according to asset class e.g. equities fixed income instruments futures options or sector e.g. health care emerging market high technology . That is the portfolio may be partitioned according to various criteria e.g. asset class or sector and simulated returns may be calculated for each part. Note that some embodiments prevent investors from gaining portfolio position information. Such embodiments may prevent investors from accessing simulated returns for single holdings e.g. a single type of stock . Some embodiments only calculate simulated returns for partitions in which each part has a minimum of two different holdings. Some embodiments only calculate simulated returns for partitions from which the portfolio s strategy cannot be reverse engineered. Note that partitions along asset class or sector are exemplary only. Other partitions may be used. In some embodiments the investors may choose the partitions for which simulated returns are calculated. In some embodiments investors may choose the partitions for which simulated returns are calculated within constraints pre specified by managers. Note also that the simulated returns referred to herein as being calculated may be made available to investors and managers as discussed herein.

In some embodiments the managers decide what types of information the investors may access. In such embodiments the managers direct the system to calculate store and make available to investors a variety of simulated returns. The managers may choose to calculate store and make available to investors simulated returns calculated for a variety of portfolio partitions such as simulated returns for particular asset classes particular sectors and any other parameter that may be used to divide the portfolio. In some embodiments the managers direct the system to limit the types of calculations that the investors may direct the system to perform. In such embodiments for example the managers may configure the system to limit the types of simulated returns that the investors may request be calculated. The managers may thus place restrictions on for example the types of portfolio partitions for which investors may request simulated returns be calculated.

The simulated returns provided to investors allow them to calculate risk statistics for the respective portfolio. Such statistics may cover all asset classes and all types of market risk and include equity prices commodity prices and curves exchange rates interest rate curves and credit spread curves together with implied volatility surfaces for multiple asset types. As an example the simulated returns may be averaged within each date to yield a predicted portfolio value on that date. This predicted future value may be further processed to calculate an estimated present value of the portfolio. As another example for a ten year treasury bond investors may calculate risk statistics such as points on the corresponding treasury curve up to ten years out. For an equity option investors may calculate risk statistics such as equity price discount curve and if specified the implied volatility. As yet another example the simulated returns may be used to compute a VaR as discussed elsewhere herein or according to techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Investors may calculate these and other risk statistics from simulated returns provided by embodiments of the present invention.

It is important to note that calculating risk statistics from simulated returns according to certain embodiments of the present invention produces the same results as if the same risk statistics were calculated from position information. However as discussed herein investors cannot deduce a portfolio strategy from simulated returns whereas an investor may be able to do so using position information. Accordingly certain embodiments allow an investor to calculate risk statistics as if the investor had full access to position information without actually providing such risk information to the investor. Instead such embodiments provide simulated returns from which investors may calculate the same risk statistics.

Note that many risk statistics are aggregatable. A risk statistic is aggregatable if it can be computed for a portfolio portion if its values for disjoint sub portions are known. An example of a non risk aggregatable quantity is portfolio value. If the values of each disjoint sub portion of a portfolio are known then the value of the entire portfolio may be determined. Other aggregatable quantities include by way of non limiting example accrued interest beta delta delta equivalents stress test present value delta bond equivalents break even inflation clean present value modified convexity credit grade asset volatility credit spread discrete real yield diversification benefit dollar delta dollar total gamma duration effective convexity factor loadings factor loadings contributions factor loading statistical significance factor R squared future value exposure generalized present value of basis point Greek sensitivities idiosyncratic option adjusted spread issuer option adjusted spread marginal risk grade marginal standard deviation market cap weighted risk grade maximum credit exposure mixed portfolio risk attribution notional par yield sensitivity position count present value recovery rate risk attribution present value risk grade shortfall probability spread convexity spread duration standard deviation standard deviation of credit exposure and yield.

However many risk statistics are non aggregatable. For such non aggregatable statistics knowledge of their value for portions of a portfolio cannot be used to compute their values for an entire portfolio. Examples of such statistics include by way of non limiting example base credit exposure collateralized debt obligation correlation conditional mean gains portfolio correlation credit exposure expected credit exposure expected shortfall fixed income risk attribution mixed portfolio risk attribution risk attribution VaR incremental VaR marginal VaR risk attribution and risk contribution. Certain embodiments of the present invention allow investors to receive simulated returns which the investors may use to calculate non aggregatable risk statistics.

Note that system architecture may be distributed across one or more computers e.g. . This enables scalability of performance of system . Adding additional rack mounted servers to the ASP architecture of system increases the risk processing throughput of system transparently with no interruption to the service.

Component software of system may be written according to Java 2 Enterprise Edition J2EE . In general J2EE applications may be written in the Java programming language and packaged to run on J2EE compliant application server hardware. With a J2EE application the program calls may be made to a service oriented architecture SOA framework. The SOA framework provides a set of modular services choreographed into composite applications. The composite applications define business processes that span a set of services and provide results to another service system or the user interface. Services used by system may be true web services communicating via simple object architecture protocol SOAP XML messages using Java Messaging Services.

The SOA architecture provides for dynamic content being presented to the user s web browser executing on the user s facilities . This application architecture allows users to access system from virtually any location as long as they have access to the network through a web browser. In some embodiments users are expected to have a web browser installed on their respective hardware in order to access the full functionality of system over the network . In some embodiments no further local installation or configuration beyond browser installation is required by the users. As detailed below in some embodiments managers may have input software installed on hardware controlled by such managers.

System includes an application server which provides data to investors and collects data from managers. The software portion of application server may be written in Java and utilize a Java server pages JSP framework to serve web pages to investors and managers via their web browsers. Application server hardware runs the Java program code presenting functionality to the user via a network such as the internet on a web browser executing on the investors or managers hardware . System allows investors to design and obtain reports and run risk analyses and allows managers to do the same and to explore portfolios and enter positions. More particularly system allows investors to access via application server simulated returns mathematical model definitions risk factor definitions and the analytical framework that is used to calculate the simulated returns.

Note that according to the embodiment of application server provides to remote users screens that present complex analytical information. This contrasts with a traditional desktop application where program code is packaged to run on the investor s operating system . However some embodiments of the present invention include this latter approach. The application functionality may be presented to the user in dedicated graphical user interfaces which may be generated by direct program calls to the operating system s application programming interface API .

System further includes one or more analytics servers which process input information from which they calculate simulated returns and risk statistics. That is application server may not itself calculate any risk statistics. Instead such calculations may be handled by analytics servers which provide a service within the SOA framework. The backend analytics e.g. hosted on analytics servers may be written in C and be made available as a 64 bit application allowing the system to handle truly large analyses. The analytics servers may include multiple analysis engines which execute investor queries and return the results for formatting and display at investors facilities . In particular investors may request simulated returns at any level of granularity. Further investors may request that the analytics engines perform complex calculations of aggregatable and non aggregatable risk statistics utilizing simulated returns and report their results to the investors. Thus analytics servers provide risk analysis services to users via application server .

Note that in some embodiments one or more analytics servers are controlled and protected by managers. In such embodiments such analytics servers may be secured such that they cannot be accessed by anyone without manager approval. In such embodiments the analytics servers may have no network connection to other computer systems. That is such servers may be located in a secure facility. Embodiments in which a manger secures its own analytics servers have at least one advantage. Specifically managers may calculate simulated returns on premises without position information ever leaving the manager s control. That is such embodiments allow managers to supply simulated returns to system without inputting such information via application server . Instead in such embodiments the managers may supply only simulated returns. Thus such embodiments allow investors to utilize simulated returns to calculate a variety of risk statistics without the position information ever leaving the managers control that is without the position information ever leaving the managers facility.

System further includes a market data store . Store may communicate directly with analytics servers . Store may be in the form of a database a flat file or any other format. Store contains current and past market data including by way of non limiting example time series of market prices interest rates and implied volatilities. By way of non limiting example store may contain ten years of historical daily data for multiple markets in the following classes foreign exchange rates e.g. currency spot rates yield curves e.g. Canadian dollar 1 month 3 month and 1 year swap rates credit curves e.g. issuer specific and by rating or industry CDS spread curves equity prices and index levels e.g. Nippon Telephone and Telegraph Cotation Assistee en Continu 40 CAC 40 Intel and IBM stock prices implied volatility surfaces e.g. FX equity interest rate and commodity e.g. physical commodity futures e.g. Interest rate futures . Users may view data for all time series in system . The time series data may be updated daily hourly or continuously. Users may also import their own time series data. Once imported user defined data may be fully incorporated into subsequent volatility and correlation calculations. More particularly store is operatively coupled to analytics servers such that analytics servers may access market data without requiring manual transportation of data. The parameters of store may be used to generate risk statistics as discussed herein.

System further includes a scenario cache . Scenario cache stores scenarios. Note that scenario cache stores random numbers used as part of the scenarios which may be used as random variables in for example Monte Carlo simulations. Thus scenario cache stores sets of random numbers pseudorandom numbers pseudorandom number generators or pseudorandom number generators together with pseudorandom number generator seeds. Storing such parameters allows for Monte Carlo simulations or portions thereof according to embodiments of the present invention to be repeatable. That is multiple simulations may utilize the same values for their random variables. Storage of such parameters also allows for the simulations to be deterministic and the same inputs may be used in different simulations. This is particularly advantageous in calculating non aggregatable risk statistics as such statistics may be aggregatable only if they are calculated using the same values for their random variables. In some embodiments scenario cache also stores simulated returns in other embodiments simulated returns have a separate store operatively coupled to system .

Relative to a discussion follows as to how a VaR may be calculated from simulated returns without requiring position information. As discussed above the parameters input into the calculation are a probability and a date and the calculation will output a VaR amount. The simulated returns are calculated for the input date. That is the simulated returns reflect the predicted value of the portfolio on the specified date. The range of the simulated returns values is parsed into discrete buckets according to value. The simulated returns are sorted according to these buckets such that the x axis represents simulated return amount and the y axis represents frequency of simulated returns with the associated x axis value resulting in a histogram. This histogram is normalized such that the area under the histogram is equal to one resulting in histogram . Histogram thus reflects the possible returns i.e. profit or loss of the portfolio on the date for which the simulated returns are calculated. In some embodiments the histogram need not be normalized. A point on the x axis is located such that the area under the histogram to the right of the point is equal to the input confidence level. This point located on the x axis is the amount output by the calculation that is the VaR. Note that the above calculation may be performed using simulated returns without knowledge of any position information.

In general and by way of non limiting example embodiments of the present invention may withhold portfolio position information from investors. In some embodiments any or a combination of the following information may be withheld from investors identity of the holdings in the portfolio identity of the amounts of each holding in the portfolio identity of dates in which holdings change in the portfolio and identity of the amounts by which holdings in the portfolio changed. The terms holding and holdings as used in the previous sentence means the smallest unit in which an investor may invest such as particular stocks particular bonds particular derivatives etc.

In general and by way of non limiting examples any or a combination of the following instruments or asset types may be included in a portfolio according to an embodiment of the present invention American depositary receipts ADR bonds amortizing callable putable sinking bond futures bond options caps cash cashflow streams collars commodities commodity options average rate double barrier single barrier spread commodity futures commodity swaps correlation swaps credit default swaps CDS CDS indexs amortizing CDS asset backed securities indexes ABX loan credit default swaps LCDS loan credit default indexes LCDX commercial mortgage backed securities credit default indexes CMBX credit default swap option collateralized debt obligations CDO synthetic CDOs convertible bonds convertible bond options mandatory converts double strike caps and floors equities equity options average rate double barrier single barrier equity futures quanto equity futures equity swaps bond market association BMA muni swaps commodity basis swaps floors forward rate agreements floating rate notes floating rate agreements foreign exchange FX options average rate double barrier single barrier digital FX forwards generic bonds mortgage backed securities U.S. Danish generic mortgage backed securities multi asset options inflation indexed bonds inflation swaps break even inflation swaps year on year inflation swaps inflation linked swaps interest rate futures options on futures bond equity interest rate commodity money markets mutual funds overnight indexed swaps securitized products generic MBS U.S. MBS U.S. collateralized mortgage obligation CMO swaps swaptions variance swaps range accrual notes and U.K. index linked gilts.

Note that embodiments of the present invention may input information e.g. position information from managers using a variety of techniques not limited to web page based interfaces such as those discussed above in reference to . By way of non limiting example an embodiment e.g. system of may include a file transfer protocol FTP server and an associated FTP site. Such a site and server may allow managers to upload position or other information after which such information is treated the same as if it were entered using position input pages such as those depicted in . As another example information may be entered into the system using email. As yet another example information may be streamed into embodiments of the invention. Other techniques for entering information are also possible. Note that the techniques of this paragraph may be employed by any user including both managers and investors.

Further embodiments of the present invention may output information e.g. simulated returns risk statistics and reports regarding these data according to a variety of techniques not limited to web page based presentations such as those discussed above in reference to . By way of non limiting example an embodiment e.g. system of may include a file transfer protocol FTP server and an associated FTP site. Such a site and server may allow investors and managers to download risk statistics simulated returns market data scenarios risk factors and other data. As another example users may request that information be sent via email. As yet another example information may be streamed out of embodiments of the invention to interested users. Other techniques for outputting information are also possible.

According to certain embodiments of the present invention managers input position information into a programmed computer. The computer transforms the position information according to the techniques disclosed herein into e.g. simulated return vectors and risk statistics which are made available to investors by for example visually displaying such information on a computer monitor.

The system according to embodiments of the invention or portions of the system of embodiments of the invention may be in the form of a processing machine such as a general purpose or special purpose computer for example. As used herein the term processing machine is to be understood to include at least one processor that uses at least one memory. The at least one memory stores a set of instructions. The instructions may be either permanently or temporarily stored in the memory or memories of the processing machine. The processor executes the instructions that are stored in the memory or memories in order to process data. The set of instructions may include various instructions that perform a particular task or tasks such as those tasks described herein. Such a set of instructions for performing a particular task may be characterized as a program software program or simply software.

As noted above the processing machine executes the instructions that are stored in the memory or memories to process data. This processing of data may be in response to commands by a user or users of the processing machine in response to previous processing in response to a request by another processing machine and or any other input for example.

As noted above the processing machine used to implement embodiments of the invention may be a general purpose computer. However the processing machine described above may also utilize any of a wide variety of other technologies including a programmed computer a special purpose computer a computer system including a microcomputer mini computer or mainframe for example a programmed microprocessor a micro controller a peripheral integrated circuit element a CSIC Customer Specific Integrated Circuit or ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or other integrated circuit a logic circuit a digital signal processor a programmable logic device such as a FPGA PLD PLA or PAL or any other device or arrangement of devices that is capable of implementing the steps of the processes of embodiments of the invention.

The processing machines used to implement embodiments of the invention may utilize a suitable operating system. Thus embodiments of the invention may include a processing machine running the Microsoft Windows Vista operating system the Microsoft Windows XP operating system the Microsoft Windows NT operating system the Windows 2000 operating system the Unix operating system the Linux operating system the Xenix operating system the IBM AIX operating system the Hewlett Packard UX operating system the Novell Netware operating system the Sun Microsystems Solaris operating system the OS 2 operating system the BeOS operating system the Macintosh operating system the Apache operating system an OpenStep operating system or another operating system or platform.

It is appreciated that in order to practice a method according to embodiments of the invention as described above it is not necessary that the processors and or the memories of the processing machine be physically located in the same geographical place. That is each of the processors and the memories used by the processing machine may be located in geographically distinct locations and connected so as to communicate in any suitable manner. Additionally it is appreciated that each of the processor and or the memory may be composed of different physical pieces of equipment. Accordingly it is not necessary that the processor be one single piece of equipment in one location and that the memory be another single piece of equipment in another location. That is it is contemplated that the processor may be two pieces of equipment in two different physical locations. The two distinct pieces of equipment may be connected in any suitable manner. Additionally the memory may include two or more portions of memory in two or more physical locations.

To explain further processing as described above is performed by various components and various memories. However it is appreciated that the processing performed by two distinct components as described above may in accordance with a further embodiment of the invention be performed by a single component. Further the processing performed by one distinct component as described above may be performed by two distinct components. In a similar manner the memory storage performed by two distinct memory portions as described above may in accordance with a further embodiment of the invention be performed by a single memory portion. Further the memory storage performed by one distinct memory portion as described above may be performed by two memory portions.

Further various technologies may be used to provide communication between the various processors and or memories as well as to allow the processors and or the memories of embodiments of the invention to communicate with any other entity e.g. so as to obtain further instructions or to access and use remote memory stores. Such technologies used to provide such communication might include a network the Internet Intranet Extranet LAN an Ethernet or any client server system that provides communication for example. Such communications technologies may use any suitable protocol such as TCP IP UDP or OST for example.

As described above a set of instructions may be used in the processing according to embodiments of the invention. The set of instructions may be in the form of a program or software. The software may be in the form of system software or application software for example. The software might also be in the form of a collection of separate programs a program module within a larger program or a portion of a program module for example The software used might also include modular programming in the form of object oriented programming. The software tells the processing machine what to do with the data being processed.

Further it is appreciated that the instructions or set of instructions used in the implementation and operation of embodiments of the invention may be in a suitable form such that the processing machine may read the instructions. For example the instructions that form a program may be in the form of a suitable programming language which is converted to machine language or object code to allow the processor or processors to read the instructions. That is written lines of programming code or source code in a particular programming language are converted to machine language using a compiler assembler or interpreter. The machine language is binary coded machine instructions that are specific to a particular type of processing machine e.g. to a particular type of computer. The computer understands the machine language.

Any suitable programming language may be used in accordance with the various embodiments of the invention. Illustratively the programming language used may include assembly language Ada APL Basic C C COBOL dBase Forth Fortran Java Modula 2 Pascal Prolog REXX Visual Basic and or JavaScript for example. Further it is not necessary that a single type of instructions or single programming language be utilized in conjunction with the operation of the system and method according to embodiments of the invention. Rather any number of different programming languages may be utilized as is necessary or desirable.

Also the instructions and or data used in the practice of embodiments of the invention may utilize any compression or encryption technique or algorithm as may be desired. An encryption module might be used to encrypt data. Further files or other data may be decrypted using a suitable decryption module for example.

As described above the invention may illustratively be embodied in the form of a processing machine including a computer or computer system for example that includes at least one memory. It is to be appreciated that the set of instructions that enables the computer operating system to perform the operations described above may be contained on any of a wide variety of media or medium as desired. Further the data that is processed by the set of instructions might also be contained on any of a wide variety of media or medium. That is the particular medium or memory in the processing machine utilized to hold the set of instructions and or the data used in embodiments of the invention may take on any of a variety of physical forms or transmissions for example. Illustratively the medium may be in the form of paper paper transparencies a compact disk a DVD an integrated circuit a hard disk a floppy disk an optical disk a magnetic tape a RAM a ROM a PROM a EPROM a wire a cable a fiber communications channel a satellite transmissions or other remote transmission as well as any other medium or source of data that may be read by the processors of embodiments of the invention.

Further the memory or memories used in the processing machine that implements embodiments of the invention may be in any of a wide variety of forms to allow the memory to hold instructions data or other information as is desired. Thus the memory might be in the form of a database to hold data. The database might use any desired arrangement of files such as a flat file arrangement or a relational database arrangement for example.

In the system and method according to embodiments of the invention a variety of user interfaces may be utilized to allow a user to interface with the processing machine or machines that are used to implement embodiments of the invention. As used herein a user interface includes any hardware software or combination of hardware and software used by the processing machine that allows a user to interact with the processing machine. A user interface may be in the form of a dialogue screen for example. A user interface may also include any of a mouse touch screen keyboard voice reader voice recognizer dialogue screen menu box list checkbox toggle switch a pushbutton or any other device that allows a user to receive information regarding the operation of the processing machine as it processes a set of instructions and or provide the processing machine with information. Accordingly the user interface is any device that provides communication between a user and a processing machine. The information provided by the user to the processing machine through the user interface may be in the form of a command a selection of data or some other input for example.

As discussed above a user interface is utilized by the processing machine that performs a set of instructions such that the processing machine processes data for a user. The user interface is typically used by the processing machine for interacting with a user either to convey information or receive information from the user. However it should be appreciated that in accordance with some embodiments of the system and method according to embodiments of the invention it is not necessary that a human user actually interact with a user interface used by the processing machine. Rather it is also contemplated that the user interface according to embodiments of the invention might interact convey and receive information with another processing machine rather than a human user. Accordingly the other processing machine might be characterized as a user. Further it is contemplated that a user interface utilized in the system and method according to embodiments of the invention may interact partially with another processing machine or processing machines while also interacting partially with a human user.

It will be readily understood by those persons skilled in the art that the present invention is susceptible to broad utility and application. Many embodiments and adaptations of the present invention other than those herein described as well as many variations modifications and equivalent arrangements will be apparent from or reasonably suggested by the present invention and foregoing description thereof without departing from the substance or scope of the invention.

Other embodiments uses and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the present invention disclosed herein. The specification and drawings should be considered exemplary only and the scope of the present invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereof.

