---

title: Headrest assembly for a massage device
abstract: A headrest assembly for supporting a head of a user of a massage device includes a frame assembly and a resilient assembly. The frame assembly is selectively coupled to the massage device, and the resilient assembly is coupled to the frame assembly. The resilient assembly includes an upper resilient member and a headrest platform that supports the upper resilient member. The headrest platform includes a first side section, a second side section, a middle section that is positioned substantially between and is coupled to the first side section and the second side section, and a hinge assembly that connects the side sections to the frame assembly. The hinge assembly allows the middle section to flex substantially downward and the side sections to pivot relative to the hinge assembly when the headrest platform is supporting the head of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07761943&OS=07761943&RS=07761943
owner: Earthlite Massage Tables, Inc.
number: 07761943
owner_city: Vista
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080924
---
This application claims priority on U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 975 448 filed on Sep. 26 2007 and entitled HEADREST ASSEMBLY FOR A MASSAGE DEVICE . As far as is permitted the contents of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 975 448 are incorporated herein by reference. Additionally the contents of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 452 728 filed on Jun. 13 2006 are incorporated herein by reference.

As the benefits of therapeutic massage are becoming more widely appreciated more and more people are participating in therapeutic massage. A typical massage table allows the patient to be resting while receiving a massage. A typical massage chair allows the patient to be sitting while receiving a massage. Both types of massage devices include a headrest that supports the head of the patient during a massage. Important features for massage devices include high strength ease of use adjustability light weight and comfort.

The present invention is directed to a headrest assembly for supporting a head of a user of a massage device. The headrest assembly includes a frame assembly and a resilient assembly. The frame assembly is selectively coupled to the massage device. The resilient assembly is coupled to the frame assembly. The resilient assembly includes an upper resilient member and a headrest platform that supports the upper resilient member.

As an overview in certain embodiments the headrest assembly provides improved comfort adjustability and support to a face or head of the user. Moreover the headrest assembly can have a relatively low profile and can curve to better wrap envelope and or cradle the face.

In certain embodiments the headrest platform includes a first side section a second side section a middle section that is positioned substantially between and is coupled to the first side section and the second side section and a hinge assembly that connects the side sections to the frame assembly. The hinge assembly allows the middle section to flex substantially downward and the side sections to pivot relative to the hinge assembly when the headrest platform is supporting the head of the user.

In one embodiment the hinge assembly includes a first front pivot positioned within the first side section and a second front pivot positioned within the second side section. Each front pivot can include a front pivot hole and a vertical bolt. The front pivot hole is sized to allow the vertical bolt to rotate and to move laterally within the front pivot hole. The hinge assembly also includes a first side pivot that is positioned within the first side section and a second side pivot that is positioned within the second side section.

In some embodiments the frame assembly includes a support frame having a headrest support section and a flex stop section. The headrest support section is coupled to and supports the resilient assembly. The flex stop section limits how far the middle section can flex downward when downward pressure is applied on the middle section.

The frame assembly can also include a support arm assembly having a first support arm and a spaced apart second support arm that cooperate to selectively couple the headrest assembly to the massage device. Each support arm includes a first end and a second end. The first end of each support arm extends through a headrest receiver on the massage device. Each support arm is somewhat curved so that the first end contacts a support board of the massage device when the support arms are coupled to the massage device.

The present invention is also directed to a massage device assembly including a massage device that supports a body of the user during a massage treatment and a headrest assembly that supports the head of the user during the massage treatment. The headrest assembly can be selectively coupled to the massage device.

The present invention is further directed to a method of supporting a head of a user of a massage device.

As an overview in certain embodiments the headrest assembly provides improved comfort and support to the face A and or the head B of a person using the massage device assembly . Further the headrest assembly provides improved adjustability to the user of the massage device assembly .

Additionally or alternatively the headrest assembly can be lighter in weight and or have a smaller form factor than comparable prior art headrest assemblies not shown . Further as provided herein in certain embodiments the headrest assembly includes suspension that can better respond to the individual weight and shape of the head B and can curve to better wrap envelope and or cradle the face A. Moreover the headrest assembly can have a relatively low profile.

In the massage device is a portable folding massage table that includes a table base that supports the body of the user and a headrest receiver assembly illustrated in phantom that can be used to selectively secure the headrest assembly to the massage device . One embodiment of a massage table is disclosed U.S. Pat. No. 5 009 170 issued to Spehar the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Alternatively for example the massage device assembly can include another type of massage device such as a massage chair. One embodiment of a massage chair is disclosed U.S. Pat. No. 6 729 690 issued to Roleder et al. the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

In the embodiment illustrated in the table base includes a support board illustrated in phantom that supports the body of the user a front wall illustrated in phantom that cantilevers downward away from the support board near an end of the support board and the headrest receiver assembly . The support board is generally flat and rectangular shaped and can be made of a light yet sturdy material such as plywood. Alternatively the support board can be designed to have a different shape or to be made from a different material.

In the headrest receiver assembly includes a first headrest receiver not shown and a spaced apart second headrest receiver A that are secured to the front wall of the massage device . In this embodiment each of the headrest receivers A is a generally straight right cylindrical shaped aperture that extends through the front wall of the massage device . Alternatively the headrest receiver assembly can have another design or can be positioned at another location on the massage device .

In the headrest assembly is removable and adjustably extends and cantilevers away from the front wall of the table base . Alternatively the headrest assembly can be positioned at another location. For example for a massage chair the headrest assembly would extend generally upward at an angle from the massage device .

In one embodiment the frame assembly includes a support arm assembly an adjuster assembly that is coupled to the support arm assembly and a support frame that is coupled to the adjuster assembly . The support arm assembly is designed to selectively couple the other elements of the headrest assembly to the massage device . The adjuster assembly selectively adjusts the positioning of the resilient assembly relative to the massage device . The support frame is coupled to and supports the resilient assembly .

In certain embodiments the resilient assembly includes an upper resilient member e.g. a foam pad and a flexible headrest platform that supports the upper resilient member . During use of the massage device assembly the face A and or the head B of the user rests comfortably on the upper resilient member . The headrest platform is coupled to and is supported by the support frame of the frame assembly .

As noted above in certain embodiments the headrest assembly provides improved comfort support and adjustability to the user of the massage device assembly . Additionally or alternatively the headrest assembly can be lighter in weight and or have a smaller form factor than comparable prior art headrest assemblies not shown . Further in certain embodiments the headrest assembly includes suspension that can better respond to the individual weight and shape of the head B illustrated in and can curve to better wrap envelope and or cradle different sized faces A illustrated in . Moreover the headrest assembly can have a relatively low profile.

As illustrated in the frame assembly includes a support arm assembly an adjuster assembly and a support frame . In one embodiment the support arm assembly includes a first support arm a spaced apart second support arm that is somewhat parallel to the first support arm and an arm connector that couples the support arms together. Alternatively the support arm assembly could be designed with more than two or less than two support arms .

Referring back to a portion of each support arm only one support arm is visible in of the support arm assembly extends into a corresponding headrest receiver A in the table base of the massage device to facilitate selective attachment and detachment of the headrest assembly to the massage device . In one embodiment the support arms are spaced apart approximately eight inches and the headrest receivers A are spaced apart approximately eight inches. Alternatively the spacing between the support arms and the headrest receivers A can be greater than or less than eight inches. Still alternatively the support arms could be secured to the massage device in another fashion.

Further the amount in which the support arms extend into the table base can be moved to adjust the position of the headrest assembly relative to the table base . With this design the headrest assembly can be moved relative to the table base to suit the needs of the patient being massaged.

The design shape and length of each support arm can be varied depending upon the design requirements of the massage device assembly . In one embodiment each support arm i is a rigid generally tubular shaped beam ii includes an arm first end that is inserted into the headrest receiver A and an arm second end that is positioned adjacent to an outer face A of the front wall when the support arms are fully inserted into the headrest receiver A and iii is slightly curved somewhat arch shaped somewhat like a Japanese sword. The purpose of the support arms is to hang the headrest assembly outboard from the massage device .

As noted above in the embodiment illustrated in each headrest receiver A is designed to be a generally straight right cylindrical shaped aperture that extends through the front wall of the massage device . With the curved design of the support arms each support arm is designed to fit snugly within the corresponding headrest receiver A regardless of how far the support arms are inserted into the headrest receivers A.

When each support arm is fully inserted into the headrest receiver A the arm first end moves upward and contacts the support board of the massage device . The contact between the arm first end of the support arm and the support board further increases the snugness of the fit between the support arms and the headrest receivers A and inhibits the support arms from wiggling and drooping down which occurs in straight prior art support arms where the arm first end does not contact the support board . Stated another way the curved support arms have multiple advantages over straight prior art support arms including 1 the headrest assembly is tight in the headrest receivers A and 2 the headrest assembly is held in a higher position instead of drooping down like the straight prior art support arms.

Further the curve in the support arms allows for looser tolerances for the support arms and the headrest receivers A while still maintaining good engagement between these components. As a result thereof the cost for manufacturing is reduced.

The arm connector couples the first support arm to the second support arm . The arm connector is substantially tubular shaped and is coupled to each support arm near the arm second end .

Referring again to it can be seen that when the support arms are inserted in the headrest receivers A so that the headrest assembly is coupled to the massage device the arm second end of each support arm is positioned above the level of the arm connector . As a result of the support arms being positioned above the level of the arm connector when the headrest assembly is coupled to the massage device the arm connector is positioned low and away from the chin of the user so as to increase the comfort of the user of the massage device assembly .

The adjuster assembly supports and selectively positions the support frame and the resilient assembly relative to the remainder of the massage device assembly . As illustrated in the adjuster assembly includes a first adjuster subassembly a second adjuster subassembly a gear assembly and a latch . Each adjuster subassembly is coupled to the arm connector and the support frame which cooperate to maintain the adjuster subassemblies spaced apart from each other. Alternatively the adjuster assembly can include more than two or less than two adjuster subassemblies .

The design of each adjuster subassembly can be varied depending upon the design requirements of the massage device assembly . The specific design of the adjuster assembly as well as the design of the support arm assembly enables the arm connector to be positioned away from the chin of the user so as to improve the comfort of the headrest assembly .

Each adjuster subassembly is generally made from a substantially rigid plastic material. Alternatively each adjuster subassembly can be made from a different substantially rigid material.

As illustrated in each adjuster subassembly is a four bar linkage type adjuster assembly that operate in parallel to adjust the height of the support frame and the resilient assembly relative to the massage device to enable the face A and or the head B of the user to be supported more comfortably while receiving the massage treatment. Each adjuster subassembly includes a first link that cantilevers away from the arm connector a second link that is pivotably coupled to the first link a third link that is pivotably coupled to the second link and is secured to the support frame and a fourth link that cantilevers away from the arm connector and is pivotably coupled to the third link . In the embodiment illustrated in the third link is integrally formed with the support frame . Alternatively the third link could be coupled to or secured to the support frame by a different method.

The third link of each adjuster subassembly is integrally formed with or coupled to the support frame toward the end of the support frame that is positioned nearer to the massage device illustrated in when the headrest assembly is coupled to the massage device . By positioning the third link of each adjuster subassembly in this manner the adjuster assembly and the arm connector can more easily be maintained away from the face A and chin of the user of the massage device assembly so as to improve the comfort of the headrest assembly for the user.

Each adjuster subassembly further includes a plurality of connector pins that function to allow the first link to pivot relative to the second link to allow the second link to pivot relative to the third link and to allow the fourth link to pivot relative to the third link .

It should be noted that the use of the first link the second link the third link and the fourth link is merely for purposes of convenience and can be varied. For example any of the links of each adjuster subassembly can be referred to as the first link the second link the third link and or the fourth link.

The gear assembly is coupled to the first adjuster subassembly the second adjuster subassembly and the support arm assembly . The gear assembly functions to selectively lock the first adjuster subassembly the second adjuster subassembly and the support arm assembly in any desired configuration so as to prevent movement of the adjuster subassemblies and the support arms relative to the rest of the headrest assembly .

Again referring to it can be seen that when the support arms are inserted in the headrest receivers A so that the headrest assembly is coupled to the massage device the arm second end of each support arm is positioned substantially directly above the gear assembly .

As illustrated in the latch is coupled to the gear assembly so as to enable the gear assembly to selectively lock the positioning of the adjuster subassemblies and the support arms relative to the rest of the headrest assembly . As shown the latch is a standard flip handle latch. Alternatively another type of latching or locking mechanism can be used.

The latch is selectively movable between a locked position A and an unlocked position B illustrated in phantom wherein when the latch is in the unlocked position B the gear assembly allows the adjuster subassemblies and the support arms to move relative to the rest of the headrest assembly and wherein when the latch is in the locked position A the gear assembly prevents the adjuster subassemblies and the support arms from moving relative to the rest of the headrest assembly .

By selectively moving the latch between the locked position A and the unlocked position B the headrest assembly can selectively be moved between the folded configuration as illustrated in the lower position with the support arms ready to be inserted into the headrest receivers A as illustrated in and the higher position with the resilient assembly elevated and the support arms ready to be inserted into the headrest receivers A as illustrated in . It should be noted that the specific configurations and positions illustrated in are for demonstration purposes only and they are not the only possible configurations and positions for the headrest assembly as disclosed in the present invention. For example the support arms can be positioned at a different angle relative to the rest of the headrest assembly so that the resilient assembly is positioned at any desired angle of tilt relative to the massage device . Additionally the adjuster subassemblies can be adjusted so that the height of the resilient assembly is positioned anywhere along the continuum between a lowest position and a highest position relative to the massage device . The specific configurations and positions chosen for the headrest are adapted to suit the comfort and support requirements of the person receiving the massage treatment.

The support frame supports the resilient assembly relative to the remainder of the frame assembly . As illustrated in the support frame is integrally formed with the third link of each adjuster subassembly . Alternatively the third link can be coupled to or otherwise secured to the support frame by a different method. The support frame is typically made of a relatively light weight rigid plastic material. Alternatively the support frame can be made of other substantially rigid materials.

Referring back to the support frame includes a headrest support section A that is coupled to and supports the resilient assembly and a flex stop section B that provides a limit for how much the headrest platform can flex downward illustrated by arrow A when a load is applied. Stated another way when the user of the massage device assembly places their face A and or their head B within the headrest platform the headrest platform will deflect only as far as the flex stop section B which provides a rigid stopping point for the deflection of the headrest platform .

In the embodiment illustrated in the Figures the third link of each adjuster subassembly illustrated in is integrally formed with or coupled to the headrest support section A of the support frame . The headrest support section A is positioned nearer to the massage device illustrated in when the headrest assembly is coupled to the massage device . By coupling the third link of each adjuster subassembly to the headrest support section A of the support frame the adjuster assembly and the arm connector illustrated in can more easily be maintained away from the face A and chin of the user of the massage device assembly so as to improve the comfort of the headrest assembly for the user.

As shown in the resilient assembly includes a headrest platform that is substantially flat and horseshoe shaped. The horseshoe configuration is designed to comfortably receive the face A and or head B of the user. The headrest platform is conforming lightweight and relatively inexpensive to manufacture. The headrest platform can be made with a flexible plastic or another suitable material. The flat horseshoe shape has an initial rim but it will curve into a cylindrical spherical shape when a load is applied such as the weight of the head of the user.

In certain embodiments the headrest platform includes a first side section having a first outer edge B that rotates as illustrated by arrow A illustrated in when pressure illustrated as an arrow is applied to the headrest platform a second side section having a second outer edge B that rotates as illustrated by arrow A illustrated in when pressure is applied to the headrest platform a middle section that is positioned substantially between and is coupled to the first side section and the second side section and a hinge assembly that couples the headrest platform to the headrest support section A of the support frame . When the face of the user is positioned within the headrest platform the side sections are designed to support the cheeks of the user while the middle section is designed to support the forehead of the user.

The first side section and the second side section can each be made with a substantially rigid plastic material. The middle section can be made with a softer flexible plastic or rubber material. Thus in these embodiments the middle section is more flexible than the side sections . Alternatively the side sections can be made with a different substantially rigid or partly flexible material and the middle section can be made with a different flexible material. Still alternatively the side sections and the middle section can be made of the same or similar materials.

The headrest platform is supported on the surface with the hinge assembly that allows the middle section to flex substantially downward as illustrated by arrow A illustrated in when weight is applied. Additionally the inside edge of the horseshoe shape of the headrest platform may also be designed to flex when a load is applied.

Further when a load is applied to the headrest platform and the middle section flexes downward as illustrated by the arrow A in such as when the headrest platform is supporting the head of the user the hinge assembly allows the side sections to pivot as illustrated by arrows A and A in relative to the hinge assembly . More particularly when a load is applied to the headrest platform and the middle section flexes downward the hinge assembly allows the outer edges B B of each side section to pivot upward and inward toward each other. At the same time an inner edge C C of each side section moves downward when a load is applied to the headrest platform . illustrates the resulting movement of the middle section and the side sections when a load such as the weight of the head of the user is applied.

In order for the headrest platform to move smoothly access space needs to be provided for a smooth action. When the load is removed from the headrest platform the headrest platform will elastically recover from all the deformation.

As illustrated in the Figures the hinge assembly includes a first front pivot that is positioned near the end of the first side section away from the middle section a second front pivot that is positioned near the end of the second side section away from the middle section a first side pivot that is positioned along the first side section near the middle section and a second side pivot that is positioned along the second side section near the middle section .

The front pivots each include an elongated front pivot hole that is secured to the respective side section and a vertical pin that is secured to the flexible headrest platform . With this design the vertical pin allows the front pivot hole and the respective side section to rotate about the vertical pin . This allows the side sections to pivot and move inward. For example the front pivot hole can have a slot shape.

The side pivots are essentially loose fitting screw bolt joints that couple the headrest platform to the support frame while still allowing the side sections to pivot and move relative to each other as load is applied to the headrest platform . Alternative different types of side pivots could be utilized to couple the headrest platform to the support frame while still allowing the side sections to pivot and move relative to each other as load is applied to the headrest platform .

In one embodiment the axes of the side sections are angled relative to the bisection plane down the median at an angle of 5.4 degrees when there is no load on the headrest platform . This angle is based on the biometric information that most faces are widest at the cheek bone just below the eye socket. The cheek bone is where the jaw muscle hangs. The width of the jaw is narrower as we move lower.

The axes of the side sections start at a 5.4 degree angle from the bisection plane and when load is applied to the flexible middle section the rubber material of the middle section curves down to hug the forehead of the user. The curve consumes more material and pulls the two hinged side sections toward the center and toward each other. The axes of the front pivots gradually move toward parallel and end with a 4.3 degree angle relative to the bisection plane.

The moving axis is evident in the design of the front pivots . The front pivot hole in each of the front pivots is elongated to allow it to rotate about the vertical pin and also move laterally within the front pivot toward the bisection plane. A sliding hinge is a rate design in mechanical components. To make this happen there has be low friction material so the front pivot hole can slide around the vertical pin . This sliding action relieves the tension in the rubber material of the middle section called hoop stress so that the rubber material is experiencing mostly bending. If the friction is high or the front pivot hole cannot slide easily relative to the vertical pin then the length of rubber is not sufficient when going from flat to cylindrical. This can be observed as a higher stiffness of the middle section . It can also stiffen the flexing behavior when the middle section experiences shrinkage during cooling either in use or during the molding process .

The rigid side sections which support the cheeks of the user are hinged at an axis with an angle of 3 to 8 degrees to the bisection plane of the face. This hinge angle has to change to allow the maximum flex performance of the middle section . Depending on the load and the curvature of the middle section this angle can be reduced by 1 to 2 degrees. The angle may be small but it has a strong influence to the changing shape of the headrest platform .

Additionally as noted in the flexible headrest platform can include one or more portions of a hook and loop type fastener that assist in securing the resilient member to the headrest platform .

The gear assembly is designed to selectively lock the positioning and configuration of the support arm assembly illustrated in and the adjuster assembly . As shown in the gear assembly includes a small crown gear and a large crown gear . In one embodiment the first link of the adjuster assembly is coupled to the arm connector and the fourth link of the adjuster assembly is coupled to the large crown gear . The small crown gear and the large crown gear are designed to be concentric with each other so that the first link and the fourth link are locked at the same time. It should be noted that although only show the concentric gears on the right side of the headrest assembly there is also another set of concentric gears on the left side of the headrest assembly .

When the massage therapist adjusts the height of the headrest platform illustrated in any left or right lean is not wanted. With the specific design of the adjuster assembly the first links are always moving up and down together so that it is not possible to have one short arm high and the other short arm lower.

As noted above and as best shown by referring back to the arm first end is adapted to extend into the massage device . When the support arm is coupled to the massage device the gear assembly illustrated in is positioned below and spaced apart from the arc of curvature A. With the curved design of the present invention the arm first end of the support arm starts to move upward and contact the support board of the massage device when the support arm is fully engaged with the massage device so that the support arm is wedged tight into the massage device . The contact between the arm first end of the support arm and the support board makes the fit snug so that there is less movement and the position of the headrest assembly is pushed higher with less droop or sagging. The prior art straight support arm will wiggle and droop down because the end of the support arm does not contact the support board.

Also the design of the support arm of the present invention where the arm connector is positioned below the arm second end of the support arm and below and spaced apart from the arc of curvature A of the support arm when the support arm is coupled to the massage device enables the arm connector to be positioned away from the chin of the user. The arm connector for the prior art straight support arm is higher and more to the left which leads the arm connector to come closer to the proximity of the chin.

Further illustrates the side pivots in more detail. In particular in one embodiment each side pivot includes i a threaded screw that extends through a tubular shaped aperture in the headrest platform and a slot shaped opening in the support frame ii a washer that fits over the screw near the support frame and iii a nut that is threaded onto the screw to loosely secure the headrest platform to the support frame . It should be noted that the slot shaped opening allows the middle section to move downward and the side sections to pivot.

Moreover also illustrate the front pivot hole in the respective side section and the vertical pins illustrated in phantom that are part of and secured to the respective side section . With this design the vertical pin allows the front pivot hole and the respective side section to rotate about the vertical pin .

In this embodiment comparing illustrate how the middle section moves downward and the side sections pivot as illustrated by arrows A A when force is applied as illustrated by arrow .

In one embodiment the side pivots are essentially loose fitting screw bolt joints that couple the headrest platform to the support frame while still allowing the side sections to pivot and move relative to each other as load is applied to the headrest platform . It should be noted that when the middle section moves downward the side sections not shown in and B primarily rotate however the portion near the middle section also moves inward due to the side pivots .

It should be noted that the movement of the middle section has been exaggerated and simplified for clarity.

It should be noted that also illustrate the front pivot hole illustrated in phantom in the respective side section and the vertical pin illustrated in phantom that is secured to the respective side section . With this design the vertical pin allows the front pivot hole and the respective side section to rotate about the vertical pin .

It should be noted that the movement of the side sections has been exaggerated and simplified for clarity.

While the current invention is disclosed in detail herein it is to be understood that it is merely illustrative of the presently preferred embodiments of the invention and that no limitations are intended to the details of construction or design herein shown other than as described in the appended claims.

