---

title: Advertisements based on target market
abstract: Embodiments describe a method and a system to display a calendar system. The method and system to receive a request to display at least one filtered event in a calendar display interface, wherein the at least one filtered event is filtered from a plurality of categories based on selected criteria, wherein a collection of events is selected from an event database based on the selected criteria, and each collection of events forms a specific subcalendar of a plurality of subcalendar; and to receive a request to display selected ones of the specific subcalendars in the calendar display interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646288&OS=09646288&RS=09646288
owner: 
number: 09646288
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080402
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 921 998 filed Apr. 4 2007 having the title of On Line Community Calendar and having the inventor Lucinda G. Price and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 922 992 filed Apr. 11 2007 having the title On Line Community Calendar and the inventor Lucinda G. Price.

It is difficult at best to determine what events are taking places locally without searching through newspapers banners word of mouth flyers and multiple websites.

Embodiments describe a method and a system to display a community calendar. A request to display at least one filtered event in a calendar display interface is received wherein the at least one filtered event is filtered from a plurality of categories based on selected criteria wherein a collection of events is selected from an event database based on the selected criteria and each collection of events forms a specific subcalendar of a plurality of subcalendars. A request to display selected ones of the specific subcalendar in the calendar display interface is received.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present disclosure. It may be evident however to one skilled in the art that embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

In example embodiments a computer system e.g. a client machine server machine etc. configured by an application may constitute a module that is configured and operates to perform certain operations as described herein below. Accordingly the term module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and to perform certain operations described herein.

The network blocks including network based device s may include a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone a communications device a wireless telephone a land line telephone a control system a camera a scanner a television television cable a telephone with a web browser a facsimile machine a printer a pager and or a personal trusted device. The device may include a card such as a smart card a magnetic card and or a key card. The device may include a telephone or any device capable of Short Messaging Service SMS messaging multimedia messaging service MMS messaging and or generating audio tones such as dual tone multi frequency DTMF tones. The device may be browser enabled. The device may engage in an interactive message and or open communication session such as SMS electronic mail xHTML Wireless Application Protocol WAP web interactive voice response IVR and or other mobile interfaces. The communication session between a client machine and the network based system may involve multiple technology modalities e.g. the client user may engage the system via SMS and receive a responsive communication as an SMS with an embedded hyperlinked URL directing the client user s device to a WAP or web page. A hyperlinked URL may be delivered directly to the device from the application server s and may be used to access a web site or a microbrowser such as a WAP site. The device may enable mobile videophone communications digital television signals and or digital radio signals. The device may include a receiver to receive near field communications.

At least one of the devices or may be associated with an account holder. Turning specifically to the network based system an Application Program Interface API server and a web server may be coupled to and may provide programmatic interfaces to one or more application servers . The devices may use one or more of these interfaces to access the application server s . For example the web client may access the application server s via the web interface supported by the web server . The web interface may include a web browser or any microbrowser such as xHTML or WAP. Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the application server s via the programmatic interface provided by the API server and or the web server . In an additional embodiment an application supported by one or more applications of the application server s may be downloadable to the network based device. The device s may host the interface associated with the one or more applications of the application server s . The interface on the device may be an API interface an SMS interface a web interface and or an IVR interface. Consumer wireless device platforms such as Java 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME J2SE and J2EE allow developers to use Java and a wireless toolkit to create applications and programs for the device . The J2ME interface may include an application programming interface API for the device. The application of the programmatic client may also access the Internet using for example Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW .

The application server s may host one or more calendar applications s . The calendar applications may include a calendar management module or calendar module a marketing module and a comparison module or compare module . The application server s may have access to a database through for example the database server s . The database may include event information or user account information.

The marketing module may request display of a particular advertisement in the calendar display interface wherein the particular advertisement is filtered from an advertisement database based on selection of a second collection from the plurality of categories wherein in a first mode the second collection is included within the first collection and both the at least one filtered event and the particular advertisement are displayed in the calendar interface. The compare module compares the first collection of the plurality of categories to the second collection of the plurality of categories.

The network may include a mobile telephone network a wireless wide area network WWAN a wireline telephone network a wireless local area network wireless LAN or WLAN a wireless Metropolitan Area Network MAN and or a wireless personal area network PAN e.g. a Bluetooth network . Other network based technologies that may be used to connect include PON VSAT satellite Micro impulse Radar Radio Frequency identification RFID UltraWide Band and or Infrared. The network based device may connect to the web using mobile internet exchange e.g. Wireless Application Protocol WAP and or Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP .

The calendar management module s may be configured to set up manage and control the calendar s . The calendar management module s may include an RSS conversion module a web site parser module a display module a posting module a pre filter module a filter module a conflict resolution module a fraud prevention module a synching module a notification module and a category selection module .

The calendar management module s may include an RSS conversion module to convert RSS feed information to event data to be displayed on a calendar display as described herein. A web site parser module may convert web site information into event data to be displayed. A display module may include the management of the calendar display. A monthly weekly yearly daily or another calendar type may be displayed. The calendar may display for example the current week and the following 3 or 4 weeks for instance. After receiving the calendar display the user may alter the display by searching or filtering through selected categories or turning on or off subcalendars in their personal subcalendar display page as described herein.

A posting module may include the management of event postings by users as described herein with respect to . After posting an event the post may tell the user to check their email and save it to publish their post to the calendar. If there is no duplicate event the system may send to the user at their email address a message with a link that they may click. The user may then click on the link and see their event. They then have the option of posting or editing or deleting . The email is used to delete or edit the event at a later time. In addition the email message may direct the user to post other events go to their subcalendar page or another location.

A pre filter module manages when a user visits the calendar system. If the system does not automatically recognize the user the system searches for an IP address associated with the user. Data associated with the IP address is transmitted as events to a calendar display relevant to the user as described herein. If the system recognizes the user the user selected subcalendars display on the calendar display. The user may also submit a zip code to be recognized without logging in or registering with the system.

A filter module may also be known as the category management module s which may be configured to manage the different categories through which a user may filter events. The user may alter the display by searching or filtering through selected categories. The filter module requests display of at least one filtered event in a calendar display interface wherein the at least one filtered event is filtered from a plurality of categories based on selected criteria wherein a collection of events is selected from an event database based on the selected criteria and each collection of events forms a specific subcalendar of a plurality of subcalendars. The category selection module requests display of selected ones of the specific subcalendar in the calendar display interface and is discussed in more detail with regard to .

A conflict resolution module manages potential duplicative events. The module may provide mechanisms whereby conflicts may be resolved. For example the module may provide guided procedures whereby the parties are guided through a number of steps in an attempt to settle the conflict. In the event that the conflict may not be settled via the guided procedures the conflict may be escalated to an administrator for example. The system may search for potential duplicate events for example same venue at the same time may be the criteria for a potential duplicate event . The user adding the latest possibly conflicting event may have at least one of the following options receive information about the other event at the same time place delete their own post as duplicative edit their own posting contact the original poster to update or remove their event post their duplicative event regardless hit the remove button for the original post to have that original post deleted as miscategorized error inappropriate or otherwise. Several removes from different IP addresses for instance may be received before the original post is actually removed.

The user may be sent an email with information about the duplicate event and asked to confirm whether they need to edit their posting or asked whether their event is indeed duplicative. In the instance where the user who is posting believes the first event is incorrect the user may have an option to contact the one who posted the initial event. An email address may be given to the new poster that may route them through the system first so they may not view the original poster s real address to work out the conflict.

A fraud prevention module may include analysis of posted events which may be approved disapproved automatically per a monitoring and approval s table or they may be approved disapproved individually for instance. The user posts an event using the event posting page. In an embodiment the user fills out each of the blanks in order to post including the security code and their email address. The system may automatically search the posting for any inappropriate content. If there is inappropriate content the user may be sent a message with a warning against such postings and the event is not posted. If the same user makes another inappropriate post their IP address and or email address may be banned from further postings. If there is no inappropriate content the system may search for potential duplicate events through module .

A synching module synchronizes the calendar display and or category selection module selected subcalendars with personal calendar applications such as Microsoft Outlook and iCal of Apple Inc.

A notification module is responsible for the generation and delivery of messages to client users of the network based system . Such messages for example advise users regarding the status of events. The messaging module s may use SMS IVR email or any other appropriate messaging module to transmit notification to the network based device for instance.

A customizing or personalization module s may allow a registrant to customize or personalize the account with various colors or themes games or other various customization tools.

The tables may include a category table . The category table may include a category ID e.g. Earnings Report identification the parent category Name e.g. Finance the Navigation Name e.g. Earnings drop down the Navigation position e.g. 2in drop down Full name Earnings Report and a Description e.g. Earnings Reports paragraph description .

The tables may include an Event table an event database. The event table may include an eventide e.g. unique id for a unique event event date event time event title event description event owner ID e.g. poster and whether the event is public or private.

The tables may include an EventOptions table having eventoptionid eventide categoryid optioninstancelineid linkcreated and linkcreatedby. There may be two or more of these eventoptions tables for a particular event e.g. Event table .

The tables may include an OptionInstance table having an optioninstanceheaderid a categoryid and an optionname. The optioninstance table may include subcategories such as countries or particular activities for example.

The tables may also include a useraccounts table . Each user account table has an account ID username password startdate expiredate lastlogin date status e.g. banned from posting . Each useraccount may have one or more saved subcalendars as described herein.

A savedcalheader table includes a savedcalheaderid a userid creator of subcalendar calendar name and whether the subealendar is public.

An optioninstanceline table includes an optioninstancelineid an optioninstanceid and an optionlinename.

The tables may include an optionmaster table feeding into the optioninstance table . The table includes an optionmasterid and an optionmastername. These optionmasternames are templates common options or default choices for example country and countryid as general categories.

The tables may include an optionmasterline table having an optionmasterlineid e.g. U.S. id optionmasterid e.g. countryid and an optionlinename e.g. U.S. . The table is linked to table .

A viewcalheader table includes a viewcalid a userid and a timestamp. Table is linked to table . The viewline table includes a viewlineid viewheaderid and a viewlink. A savedcaline table includes a savedcalineid savidcalheaderid and a savedoptionline. These are the subcalendars and the savedcallineid is associated with optionsinstanceline.

A process of an embodiment includes a look up option master list. A list of all the option master entries calendar events has a create new button. If user clicks one of the items on the list an edit option screen is presented for instance. An options editor module presents the edit option screen or posting page. A category builder module allows an iCal parser module calendar viewer module and an RSS feeds module.

The system may include a Create Edit Option Master for editing. The master may populate with the option line items in a list. User may be able to add edit delete items from the list. A new list may be the same but may start blank.

A look up category may be a list of top level categories. If the user clicks on one it may drill down to the next level. This may continue until the user gets to a category with no sub categories. It may indicate in some way if there are no further sub categories and if any options have been assigned already. If no options have been assigned there may be the option to create further sub categories.

If the user clicks the button to add a sub category to the existing level the user has drilled down to it may prompt the user for the name and add the sub category to the list and go immediately to the edit category screen.

If the user clicks to edit a category from the drill down process the user may get an edit category screen. It may show the name and description fields as well as any options that have been assigned to the category. The screen may show each of the option list titles and items. User may have the option to edit any of the titles or options or add or remove option items. There may be a drop list of the master options table . The user may create a new option from this list or by typing in the user s own new option name. Once the new one is added the user may edit as described above.

A create event screen may allow the user to add information about an event such as title time place description etc. There may be a link to assign the event to a category. This is associated with event table .

An assign event to category page may function as a pop up from the create event page and may provide some form of drill down menu for the user to select the appropriate category.

Once a category is selected the user may be prompted with the options that have been associated with that category. The user may then select all option choices that the event should be linked to. For each selection an EventOption record table may be created.

A look up users screen may be available from the administrative interface. There may be a list of user accounts table . Clicking the column headings may cause the list to re sort. Multiple entries may show on each page with standard page count navigation tool. When an individual record is clicked it may take user into the edit user screen.

A create edit user account screen may have fields associated with user account that may be filled in here.

A view categories nav screen may be the navigation tool for the site. The top level navigation may be the Category records with ParentCat parent category set to 0. They may be listed in order of NavPosition navigation position . If a category has other category records that list it as their ParentCat they may show as submenus beneath the parent. When a category is clicked that has no sub categories it may open the category option screen or popup .

A pick category options screen may exist where after a category has been selected this screen may show the options that have been assigned to that category option instance records . The user may check the boxes next to the options they want to filter the calendar for. When they are done they may have buttons to add the new selections to the currently displayed calendar or build a new one. They may also be able to add the selections to a new or existing saved calendar.

When a calendar filter has been selected by one of the above methods A record may be created in the ViewCalHeader table with the current userid and timestamp. For each option setting that has been selected a record may be created in the ViewLine table.

A view 30 day calendar with selected filter screen may be created. The display calendar routine may show the calendar for the current date range displaying events that match the most recent record for the logged in user in the ViewCalHeader table. A view 7 day 1 day or selected event calendar with selected filter screen may also be created.

Some further details about the Display Calendar routine The routine may be set up to accept iCal formatted data and display it in the proper configuration. The display routine may call a query routine that pulls events from the database and converts them to iCal or MS Outlook format. This way the display routine may display imported data from any iCal or Outlook source.

At a filter module may be used by the user to display events based on category and option selections. The method then goes back to the display module at . At from the display module the method may go straight to the category selection module. At from the display module the method may go straight to the advertisement module as described herein.

The interface includes selected category for instance. When selected the category opens up to display subcategories and corresponding query may include subcategory query must include subcategory and query cannot include subcategory . In other embodiments there may be a translation button to translate the calendar into different languages. There may be a may include and a must include selection next to each subcategory.

If must include is selected the calendar must include that particular subcategory in every event entry. If may include is selected the calendar may include that particular subcategory in the calendar or may not depending on if there are events. In the example the may include may be selected for religious and for fitness and for preschoolers and seniors and may include may be selected for morning and for afternoon . Events targeted just for teens or just in the evening for example may not be visible on the calendar.

Instead of using words or phrases icons may be used in the calendar display . The icons may be associated with tabs or buttons. Then users do not have to speak English to use the calendar and many more searchable icons under the tabs events icons on the main calendar page may fit into a small space. When a user hovers over the icon user receives an explanation of the icon and or associated event. The icon may be found under the appropriate tab on the home page or in the calendar main page within a particular associated date or in the posting page. In the posting page the user posting their event may choose all the icons that may be associated with their event in a search. When the particular icon is selected that icon may be highlighted or circled or somehow indicated that it is selected to the user. Also on the posting page the user may choose from the selection of icons to shorten their event title to the maximum number of allowable characters. In the calendar main page the user may hover over the icon to get an explanation of the associated event. Under a tab on the home main page the user may choose one or more icons in their attempt to find events in their event search. When the particular icon is selected under the appropriate tab that icon may be highlighted or circled or somehow indicated that it is selected to the user.

The tabs of categories may be different and there may be multiple rows of category tabs . In an example across the First Row of Tabs across the top of the calendar Business Personal MyCal MyAds Second Row of Tabs for both Business and Personal across the top of the calendar Location to include both city and venue Event Type Organization Date Time Public Private to include free and invite only events Personal Preferences to include age gender family single etc Search e.g. finding a search term in the event . On the second row of tabs for MyCal specifically Default pre selected tabs that come up automatically. the user may change the titles and content in their MyCal page Personal MyCal default tabs in the second row Tab 1 Garage Yard Rummage Sales Tab 2 Holidays Birthdays Vacations Tab 3 Astronomical Events Tab 4 Regional Community Events Tab 5 My Personal Events the user may add more tabs or delete the tabs . For Business MyCal default tabs in the second row Tab 1 U.S. Economic Calendar Tab 2 Corporation Announcements Tab 3 Professional Meetings Tab 4 Regional Conventions Tab 5 My Business Events. Another Filter Tab may be directed to FINANCE BUSINESS that may keep track of finance and business events for those following the stock market for example.

A mouse over feature may be present where user may mouse over tabs or buttons or phrases or event titles to get a message in a drop down menu. Another example when user mouses over a calendar event the box on appears. If a meeting event is clicked once the box may stay up there. If a meeting event is clicked twice the website associated with the event may be loaded in a separate window.

The calendar system enables users to easily access global and or local events through multiple filters including Locale Activity Organization Venue Public events Free Events Singles Events Garage Sales and others. The calendar interface may be viewed by month week date and year.

Community contributions to the calendar may be completed in two different ways 1 contribute calendar events having categories configured to be filtered including age category and activity category and 2 contribute a subCalendar to a defined list of public calendars based on a filtered search and or based on self added calendar events having categories configured to be filtered.

The calendar system provides an easy to use easy and easy to view website. The calendar system may include events from all over the world at one central location in an embodiment. Users may find events for free register for free and post events for free. Multiple search filters may be used to minimize the amount of events showing up on the user s calendar to avoid overwhelming the user. The calendar system may be used in mobile applications synchronization with current popular personal calendar applications iCal and Microsoft Outlook for example and has an ability to dynamically add events to user s personal subcalendars using personal settings and or gathered marketing data.

Travelers and locals alike may use the calendar system to find events of certain types on certain days. In an embodiment there may be a module to automatically locate a general location of a user who visits the website without registering so that the information loaded into the initial calendar display may pertain to the geographical region of the user. Marketing data gathered about the IP address may also be used to pre populate the calendar display of the calendar system with user relevant events. Advertisements in the calendar may also use this marketing data. Advertisers may also choose from multiple categories to select criteria to target advertisements.

In an embodiment a default calendar may be generated automatically and substantially uniquely for a user relevant to the user based on for example IP address and any known information associated with that IP address. Further special events local or regional to the user may be automatically displayed in the user s default calendar.

The advertisements on the calendar display may be specifically targeted to the user s search and or category filter. If the user selects marathons as an event type for example the corresponding advertisement in the display may be a runner s website a local sporting goods store or an online shoe store for example.

The user may click on an event in their generated calendar display to find out more about the event in for example a pop up window. The user may order tickets go to the event website make reservations flag the event for inappropriate content map the event save the event to a certain subcalendar of the user for instance. The flagged event may or may not be removed based on an algorithm. For example a certain number of flags from a certain number of different IP addresses are specified for event removal.

Other features that may include Clear All calendar Events to start a new filter search so that the events listed may not be overwhelming. The clear all and select all button s may be a toggle button. Filter categories by age Target Ages range may be open or pre defined All Ages Infants 0 1 Toddlers 1 3 Preschool 2 5 Children 5 9 Tween 9 13 Teens 13 19 20s 30s 40s 50s and Seniors. Filter categories may be by time of day where the user who searches for events may have the option to select the following Early Morning Morning Mid day Afternoon Evening Night Late Might if they wanted to filter by these criteria. Filter categories may include personal preferences such as Singles Events or Couples Events or Family Events. There may be subcategories under an activity tab for instance under sports may be Tennis baseball basketball soccer football or other. In addition to each of the filter tabs users may also search for a term or phrase in the event such as soccer to pull up all events including that term. As one goes through each available category filter the displayed calendar is further filtered if must is chosen. In other words only events that are in that category filter may be displayed. If not interested is chosen events that include that category may not be displayed. If may is chosen then the calendar includes all of those types of events and not just when overlapping with others.

Other features may include a print button to print the calendar or event details and a map button to map the event. A drop down menu or a mini window shows up when a user mouses over an event. For example just the title of the event would be in the calendar and mouse over or click on event to open in a drop down to give the rest of the event details.

In some embodiments a text message notification of events may be received for certain event status upon selection of a text message button not shown . For example if a new event is added to a user s subcalendar or an event reminder has been set text notification on a user s network based device may be received. Users may also choose what their calendar looks like skin setting options and what events populate it. Users and or administrators may edit events.

The user may go through the events that appear in order to delete ones they are Not Interested in. After several instances of deleting certain types of events the system may learn not to publish them in that user s calendar in the future. To repopulate the calendar the user must press a back button or clear all and start again with finding events. For example if user has a display of senior with religious activities in the last search the user may select those activities and select delete. The events may be deleted from the user s calendar interface while other users may be able to see the events on their own calendar.

The page may include a post button to post the event to the calendar when the page is completed. The page may also include event organization event location city region area event date event time event venue public or private event free or fee target age s for event target gender s singles couples families or other personal preferences.

The user who is posting the event may decide to publicly post the event by selecting public post button . Alternatively the user may select private Post and may select which of their private networks at may receive the invitation to their event. A fraud prevention code may be entered on the posting page to prevent automatic postings.

The calendar system may be part of a wiki website which refers to a collaborative community authoring website where users contribute to and or edit the content. Each user feels an ownership in it and may protect the site from inappropriate postings.

Users may contribute collaboratively to the calendar system by contributing individual events by category publicly or privately and by contributing a subcalendar to a defined list of public or private calendars that all or some users may view and add to their own list of sub calendars. Private networks may be established where each user is invited to join the group to limit who may view certain events.

The user may receive a confirmation email before the event is posted. The user may post a subcalendar to a public or private list of subcalendars as discussed in more detail with regard to . In an embodiment it is possible to add multiple events using a certain format e.g. a spreadsheet or iCal format for instance.

The list of publicly available subcalendars may be found at button and any of the subcalendars found in the list may be added to the user s list of subcalendars and turned on or off in their main calendar screen as the user desires. The user may also modify their private networks and add friends to invite them to events or subcalendars of events at button . In addition the user may also add a subcalendar based on new category selections at button .

The user may search through a list of public calendars created by other users or may search through a list of private calendars for events that the user has specifically been invited to or clubs the user is a part of for instance.

The user may delete or edit each subcalendar. If the user edits the subcalendar the user may change the subcalendar title name to reflect the change. The change may be in filtered categories for example the age range may be broadened from targeting children to targeting all ages .

There may be cookies left on a user s computer to automatically recognize the user and display the chosen subcalendar upon loading up the main calendar page. Like Wiki sites users of this Calendar may not be required to register in order to view public events. However the Calendar need not be blank when a user visits the calendar system website. The website may dynamically generate a default calendar for a user through filtering by the area that the user lives in and by special local events and or known user interests based on IP address for example .

The user may save certain searches in their calendar MyCalendar or MyCal . Or have several different calendars that they have saved for each city they visit for instance. Each of their calendars may have a different name. As one goes through each available category filter it further defines or filters the displayed calendar if must is chosen. If not interested is chosen events that include that category may not be displayed. MyCal subcalendars may include subCalendars from a public private list and subCalendars based on personal category selections. In an example subCalendars may be for personal use only ex birthday events may be shared on a public list or shared with a private network of selected users. Events may be dynamically added to a user s MyCal. When the added event fits within the filtered criteria in one of the user s specific subCalendars as shown above the event is added to user s MyCal.

SubCalendars may be placed in a private network accessible for selected others. A private network limits dissemination of certain sensitive information e.g. venue or time or other info to members only. Private Network may be established to provide certain information e.g. venue user home address to members only for safety reasons e.g. girls scouts meeting Mom s Club or book club . As for private events the posting person has to give some contact information. When a non member clicks on an event to find out the details they discover that they need to become a member of the group first. There are instructions on how to join or who to contact to find out more. The members may also be invited to the private network by another user. The private events may just appear as private on the calendar so that when booking events e.g. Weddings at Angel s Gate Park the user may see which dates are available and which dates are already taken and not any event details.

MyAds allows an advertiser to specifically select to whom they want to advertise based on filters. Advertisements may appear in a user s calendar based on user s interests and or filters used.

In an embodiment the marketing module requests display of a particular advertisement in the calendar display interface wherein the particular advertisement is filtered from an advertisement database based on selection of a second collection from the plurality of categories wherein in a first mode the second collection is included within the first collection and both the at least one filtered event and the particular advertisement are displayed in the calendar interface. In a further embodiment a compare module compares the first collection of the plurality of categories to the second collection of the plurality of categories to determine whether the second collection is included within the first collection.

Promoters may add their events for free to the general calendar and may have an option in the posting page to promote their event in an advertisement on the general calendar under selected categories.

Events on the calendar system may be viewed on a mobile platform. If a user is traveling to a different locale than usual the network based device may automatically populate the calendar with events in that new locale and or the user may pre select certain dates in that locale based on selected filtered categories to know what is going on in their upcoming destination for planning purposes.

Further while a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations. In example embodiments a computer system e.g. a standalone client or server computer system configured by an application may constitute a module that is configured and operates to perform certain operations as described herein below. In other embodiments the module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. within a special purpose processor to perform certain operations. A module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It may be appreciated that the decision to implement a module mechanically in the dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations. Accordingly the term module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories or optical and magnetic media.

As noted the software may be transmitted over a network using a transmission medium. The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for transmission to and execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signal or other intangible medium to facilitate transmission and communication of such software.

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the description herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

The following description includes terms such as up down upper lower first second etc. that are used for descriptive purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting. The elements materials geometries dimensions and sequence of operations may all be varied to suit particular applications. Parts of some embodiments may be included in or substituted for those of other embodiments. While the foregoing examples of dimensions and ranges are considered typical the various embodiments are not limited to such dimensions or ranges.

The Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.74 b to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. The Abstract is submitted with the understanding that it may not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

In the foregoing Detailed Description various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments have more features that are expressly recited in each claim. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

Thus embodiments describe a calendar method and a system. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific examples it may be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these examples without departing from the broader spirit and scope of embodiments described herein.

