---

title: System for optimizing trade promotion and distribution spending in fragmented markets
abstract: A system for optimizing incentive-based spending parameters associated with goods provided by a manufacturer in fragmented markets includes a data collection component configured to aggregate data, and an analysis module, which applies regression analysis based on key segmentation variables. A segmentation module separates the aggregated data into final segments based on identified key segmentation variables. The analysis module applies regression analysis to each final segment to identify incentive-based spending parameters and generates response curves. A report generator provides a graphical output of the respective response curves.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08170907&OS=08170907&RS=08170907
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08170907
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20080625
---
This application claims the benefit of priority from Indian Patent Application No. 839 MUM 2008 filed on Apr. 11 2008 entitled System For Optimizing Trade Promotion And Distribution Spending In Fragmented Markets and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety

This disclosure relates to data processing systems for optimizing marketing spending to obtain a maximum marketing return on investment. In particular this disclosure relates to computer systems and algorithms for analyzing and optimizing trade promotion and distribution expenditures in fragmented markets in order to maximize profits.

Due to changes in both market conditions and technology traditional brand oriented advertising is no longer the primary driver of customer behavior. This may be reflected by dwindling print newspaper circulation and market stagnation for network television commercials. Although above the line ATL marketing techniques which focus on reaching a broad population are still important below the line BTL marketing techniques which focus on targeted customer oriented communications have become increasingly important.

ATL or traditional marketing approaches are directed to a mass audience with messages that attempt to reinforce a particular brand communicate general product information or seek to elicit an emotional response. ATL marketing approaches include television radio Internet advertising print advertising outdoor advertising Yellow Pages advertising and agency costs.

In contrast BTL approaches are more aligned with traditional direct marketing efforts which attempt to provide targeted relationships between marketers and individual consumers. The effectiveness of BTL approaches is easier to measure and quantify than ATL approaches. BTL marketing approaches include direct mail direct response broadcast direct response print advertising event marketing interactive marketing and consumer and trade promotional marketing. Factors that may be responsible for the shift from ATL to BTL approaches with respect to marketing effectiveness profit include changing consumer demographics increased consumer sophistication widespread marketing clutter enhanced availability of information increased client pressure to deliver measurable value growing effectiveness of multi channel campaigns and technological advances.

However BTL marketing approaches are difficult to deploy optimize and effectively quantify in fragmented markets. For example emerging markets such as India China Brazil and Vietnam are often fragmented. Fragmented markets are characterized by a large number of channel partners trade intermediaries and retailers which form a multi tier network structure. For example it is estimated that about 95 of India s retail market is fragmented. Unlike developed markets where suppliers deal directly with a few large retailers fragmented markets have multi tier distribution and front end structure which render BTL marketing approaches difficult to optimize and evaluate. Similarly trade promotion and distribution spending are difficult to deploy optimize and effectively quantify in fragmented markets.

A large consumer packaged goods CPG entity with revenue in the 300 Million range which may be typical of a large CPG entity in India s fragmented market may have a complex multi tiered distribution network. It is not unusual for such a large CPG entity in a fragmented market to have about 25 30 warehouses about 1 500 2 000 distributors or stockists depending on the size and presence of the manufacturer about 10 000 15 000 wholesalers or intermediaries and about 2 12 million retailers. Entities with which the manufacturer has a relationship whether direct or indirect may be referred to as channel partners. Markets having about at least 1 million selling entities or channel partners may be considered to be fragmented.

The warehouses also referred to as carrying and forwarding agents or CFAs may act as a direct link between the manufacturer and the trade and further serve as the representative of the company who holds the stock inventory on behalf of the company. The objective of the CFA is to ensure continuous supply to distributors or stockists and to direct retailers. The CFA typically receives a margin of about 2 to about 4 depending on the volume of business handled.

The distributors or stockists are an important link in the distribution network structure because they purchase stock inventory from the manufacturer invest in redistribution infrastructure sales force trucks vans etc. and proactively service retailers and wholesalers to meet sales and distribution goals of the manufacturer. Stockists typically receive about 5 to about 6 of the retailer s sales price.

The wholesalers act as an intermediary between the stockist and the retailer and help extend the coverage of a product by selling to retailers. The retailer is the last point of contact between the network and the end consumer. Retailers typically receive about a 10 to about 15 profit margin on most products.

Accordingly it is difficult to optimize trade promotion and distribution marketing techniques and or expenditures spends so as to maximize the manufacturer s profit in such fragmented markets where data from disparate platforms and channel partners is not organized and may not even be linked across computing platforms. Further due to the disparate platforms it is very difficult if not impossible to obtain cohesive information regarding sales and performance based on data provided by the various channel partners. Also the large volume of data from between 2 million to 12 million retailers in a fragmented market compounds the difficulties of memory allocation and data processing efficiency when using conventional optimization algorithms.

A system for optimizing incentive based spending parameters associated with goods provided by a manufacturer in fragmented markets includes a computer having a processor and memory and a data collection component configured to aggregate data for sales of goods associated with a plurality of selling entities. An analysis module applies regression analysis to a portion of the aggregated data corresponding to the plurality of selling entities based on key segmentation variables to identify a key segmentation variable having a highest correlation with sales revenue. A segmentation module separates the aggregated data corresponding to the selling entities into final segments based on selected ranges of the identified key segmentation variable. The analysis module applies regression analysis to each final segment to identify incentive based spending parameters having a highest correlation with sales revenue and generates for each final segment one or more response curves corresponding to the identified incentive based spending parameters. A report generator provides a graphical output of the respective response curve.

A method for optimizing trade promotion and distribution incentive based spending parameters associated with goods provided by a manufacturer in fragmented markets includes collecting data relating to sales of goods associated with a plurality of retailers separating the aggregated data corresponding to retailers into coarse segments based a predetermined portion of the plurality of retailers and applying regression analysis to each of the coarse segments based on key segmentation variables to determine a primary key segmentation variable and a secondary key segmentation variable where the primary and the secondary key segmentation variables having a highest correlation with sales revenue. Processing separates the aggregated data corresponding to retailers into sub segments based on predetermined ranges of the primary key segmentation variable and divides the sub segments into final sub segments based on predetermined ranges of the secondary key segmentation variable. Regression analysis is applied to each final sub segment to identify incentive based spending parameters having a highest correlation with sales revenue and for each final sub segment one or more response curves are generated corresponding to the identified incentive based spending parameters. A graphical output is provided for the response curves where the respective response curves provide an indication of the relationship between a selected value of the identified incentive based spending parameter and a profit level of the manufacturer.

A need exists to calculate optimal spend parameter values in fragmented markets. Accurate determination of spend parameters necessitates organizing and correlating sales data in otherwise unrelated databases. Further application of regression analysis in iterative segmentation processes utilizes computational resources efficiently.

Other systems methods features and advantages will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the invention and be protected by the following claims.

The ERP system may be coupled to a business warehouse or BW system . The BW system may also communicate with the middleware system . The BW system may receive data from the ERP system and may manipulate the data to generate various reports for senior management . The ERP system may be coupled to a sales analyzer system in some applications or business configurations. The sales analyzer system may generate reports involving monthly revenue annual revenue and sales numbers and productivity values which may be provided to sales personnel . The system for optimizing trade promotion and distribution spending also referred to as a trade promotion optimizer TPO may receive data from the middleware system and may optimize various marketing or incentive based trade promotion and distribution expenditures referred to as spends spend spending levers spend spending drivers spend spending parameters and or spend spending variables based on the data. The system for optimizing trade promotion and distribution spending includes a report generating sub system which may provide reports and graphical output displays to senior management and sales personnel . Other systems and or platforms in which the system for optimizing trade promotion and distribution spending may be included or operatively coupled to may be described in for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 871 183 entitled System and Method of Preparing and Processing Data for Trade Promotion filed Jan. 24 2001 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Incentive based marketing expenditures or spends may include for example consumer and trade promotions local promotions product scheme discounts trade discounts trade marketing incentives servicing spends and visual and merchandizing expenditures. Trade promotion and distribution sales and distribution spends may include for example infra subsidy spends performance incentives salary and wages operational costs and information technology spends. Other trade promotion and distribution spends may be analyzed and optimized. In some applications spend drivers involving discounts may be divided according to brands and products while spend drivers involving discount schemes may include free goods discounts.

Note however that such discounts do not typically refer to price discounts provided to the end user or consumer. Rather such discounts and incentives typically refer to those provided to the retailer. These discounts and incentives are designed to incentivize the retailer to act like promoters of the manufacturer s products. Such discounts and incentives are provided to the retailer rather than to the end purchaser due to the nature of retail establishments in fragmented markets. In fragmented markets the retailers are not like conventional stores that are common in developed markets. Rather the retailers in fragmented markets may be very small mom and pop store fronts or walk up windows where customers request a certain type of product from the proprietor. The proprietor may therefore use his or her discretion in selecting the brand of product provided to the customer. Thus the discounts and incentives provided to the retailer may influence the retailer s decision to stock certain products and or may influence the retailer with respect to selecting a specific manufacturer s goods in response to a request for a generic product or product type from the customer.

Optimization of the incentive based spends may result in increasing or maximizing profit for the manufacturer or entity providing the product or products. The reports generated by the system for optimizing trade promotion and distribution spending may contain recommendations with regard to the various incentive based spends that is whether to increase decrease or leave unchanged the various incentive based spends.

As mentioned above incentive based spends or spend drivers may include incentives and discount schemes. With respect to a particular good sold in conjunction with a discount incentive or other spend lever there may be two possible outcomes based on the monetary level to which the spend lever is set. If the spend lever is set too low the manufacturer may not reap available incremental profit. If the spend lever is set too high such as when excessive discounts are provided to retailers the manufacturer loses profits and is essentially self gouged. 

Data may be captured from disparate systems and from various channel partners. As such much of the data captured is disjointed captured at different frequencies e.g. daily weekly monthly and may be provided in multiple and often incompatible formats. Such data may be filtered or cleansed before being analyzed. Due to the data format variability from various sources the data may first be converted into files having a common format. To cleanse for missing data values imputation and outlier analysis may be performed. Data aggregation may be performed to normalize the data to the same frequency level. Further cleansing may be performed in accordance with predetermined business rules for example that all channel partners with less than two months of history are not included . All of the data may be merged into one master file or cohesive data set on which analysis is performed.

Once the data has been captured and organized the retailers may be segmented into groups based on statistical techniques. shows a high level data flow block diagram of a universe of retailers where each of the retailers or more specifically data corresponding to the retailers is separated into a plurality of fixed bins or buckets and also referred to as blocks based on the number of retailers. The universe of retailers may be large may be greater than retailers and may often be greater than 1 million retailers. There is no theoretical upper limit regarding the number of retailers when applying the system for optimizing trade promotion and distribution spending .

The fixed number of buckets may be an arbitrary number. For example twenty buckets may be used to initially group all of the retailers. All of the retailers are initially ranked in ascending order based on sales volume or another characteristic attribute. A fixed number of retailers in sequential order are then placed in the first bucket . For example if there are 350 000 retailers in the universe of retailers the first bucket may contain the first 17 500 retailers and their corresponding data. The first 17 500 retailers are grouped into the first bucket irrespective of the value of their corresponding sales volume as long as each retailer is sequentially ordered. This may be referred to as a first coarse segmentation process. Each bucket may have a fixed width such as 5 of the total number of retailers or the buckets may be organized according to a different scheme. Any suitable percentile value may be used to provide an initial or coarse segmentation based on a fixed percentage of the number of retailers relative to the total number of retailers . The buckets may have an equal or unequal width as long as the total of all buckets accommodates 100 of the retailers. The buckets may be referred to as first coarse segmented buckets or blocks. Note that for any particular retailer placed in a specific bucket all data concerning that retailer is available for analysis.

The first coarse segmented buckets may then be processed and grouped together to reduce the number from twenty for example to a lesser number for example between three and six buckets. Four buckets are shown in this specific example. The buckets may be processed to identify logical or natural breaks in the sales volume corresponding to the retailers in the bucket so as to aggregate the buckets into a fewer number of buckets. This process may be referred to as a second coarse segmentation process. For example there may be a gradual increase in the total sales volume of the retailers from the first bucket to the second bucket and a similar gradual increase in the total sales volume of each of the retailers from the second bucket to the third bucket . However there may be a sudden shift or jump in the total sales volume of specific retailers from the third bucket to the fourth bucket . In such a situation the retailers who were initially segmented into the first through third buckets and may be aggregated into a single bucket thus consolidating or reducing the total number of buckets. The number of buckets remaining after the second coarse segmentation is preferable between about three buckets to about six buckets.

If a clear break or shift is not readily apparent within a bucket or from bucket to bucket based on the sales volume values of the retailers a logical break may be established when the sales volume of a selected retailer is about three times greater than the sales volume of the smallest retailer in the bucket. Thus the minimum to maximum sales volume ratio of the retailers in any particular bucket may be about 1 3. This may result in a reduction from about twenty buckets to about six buckets rounded down . Any suitable reduction ratio may be used such as for example a ratio of about 1 2 10 buckets reduced from 20 buckets to about 1 4 5 buckets reduced from 20 buckets . The buckets identified by the second coarse segmentation process may be referred to as the second coarse segmented buckets or blocks. The first and second coarse segmentation processes may be referred as a subjective segmentation approach.

After the universe of retailers has been separated into about three to about six buckets by the second coarse segmentation process regression analysis is applied to obtain homogeneous segmented blocks final segments or final sub segments . Regression analysis is applied to each of the second coarse segmented buckets to identify homogenous groups that have a similar response to each of the parameters or variables regressed.

Regression analysis is applied to the second coarse segmented buckets using selected key groups of variables. The key groups of variables may relate to for example purchase patterns response to incentives demographics channels and categories . Channels may relate to a basic type of retailer or store such as a pharmacy a general store and the like. Some of the variables corresponding to the key groups are shown in Table 1 below and may be referred to as regression segmentation variables .

In this illustrated example regression analysis is applied to each of the four buckets individually using variables selected from the regression segmentation variables . To process the buckets each of the retailers in a selected bucket is marked as a logical one to identify it as the target while the retailers in the remaining three buckets are marked as a logical zero. In this specific example the fourth bucket representing retailers having a sales volume 56 month is processed first. Regression is applied using the regression segmentation variables at a 95 confidence level using a backward elimination process. This is repeated for each of the remaining three buckets. The result of such regression analysis using the regression segmentation variables as applied to the fourth bucket for example is shown in Table 2 below.

In this specific example the weight which is a standardized estimate may indicate which variable or variables are more important or influential with respect to the fourth bucket. Table 2 shows only the four most important variables as a result of the regression analysis of the fourth bucket . In Table 2 the coefficients are standardized and arranged in descending order to obtain the most important variables. Thus in this example Variable 1 response to incentive type variable is the most important or primary variable while Variable 2 purchase pattern type variable is the second most important or secondary variable with respect to the fourth bucket . The two most important variables namely Variable 1 and Variable 2 are applied to the fourth bucket to perform further sub division. Note that when regression analysis is performed for the first bucket second bucket and third bucket an entirely different set of regression segmentation variables may or may not be identified as being pertinent. For example as shown in the third bucket segmentation regression analysis has identified Variable 8 channel type variable and Variable 3 purchase pattern type variable as being the two most important regression segmentation variables.

After segmentation regression analysis has been applied to determine the most important regression segmentation variables each bucket is sub divided based on selected ranges of the primary segmentation variable as described below. In this specific example the fourth bucket is sub divided into sub segment no presence of Variable 1 and sub segment presence of Variable 1 . Note that the value of the regression segmentation variables may be a rational number or may assume a Boolean value. For example a particular regression segmentation variable may indicate the presence or absence of a retailer discount where a zero indicates that no dealer discount exists and a one indicates that a dealer discount does exist.

The retailers of sub segment are further divided into final sub segment O Variable 2 2 based on the value of the secondary regression segmentation variable namely Variable 2. Similarly the retailers of sub segment are further divided into final sub segment Q Variable 23 based on the value of Variable 2. The first second and third buckets are also sub divided as described above by separately applying segmentation regression analysis to that bucket. Thus the retailers of the first bucket are divided into sub segments and the retailers of the second bucket are divided into sub segments and and the retailers of the third bucket are divided into three sub segments namely and .

Two approaches may be used for example to sub divide each bucket into sub segments based on the two most important segmentation regression variables. A first approach is referred to as a numerical inspection approach while a second approach is referred to as a purity index approach. The objective of each approach is to establish the cut off values for the primary and secondary segmentation regression variables so that final sub segments may be identified.

For example using the numerical inspection approach sub segment may be inspected to determine the distribution of data with respect to Variable 2. Data corresponding to Variable 2 may be arranged in ascending order to determine if a sharp jump exists in revenue based on the values of Variable 2 within the sub segment . Where such a sharp change exists that point may be selected as the cut off range for the sub segment. Thus as shown in a sharp difference in revenue based on the value for Variable 2 may exist above and below the value of 2 which defines additional sub segments or final sub segments O and P which are referred to as final sub segments.

Using the purity index approach the values of Variable 2 are iterated. For example assume that the minimum value of Variable 2 shown in sub segment is 0 and the maximum value of Variable 2 shown in sub segment is 7. The regression analysis is serially performed as the values are iteratively processed from 0 to 7. In a first iteration the retailers are separated according to revenue based on the value of Variable 2 to determine the difference in revenue between the two groups. The groups may be divided based on Variable 2 0 to 1 and Variable 2 1 to 7 . Similarly in a second iteration the retailers are separated with Variable 2 0 to 2 and Variable 2 2 to 7 . This is repeated seven times. The point at which the difference is the greatest establishes the cut off point for the sub segments. The segmentation process described above using regression analysis may be referred to as an objective segmentation approach.

Note that subjective segmentation the first and second coarse segmentation may separate the retailers into buckets irrespective of the final objective of the segmentation process. Use of only a subjective segmentation approach may fail to optimize the spend drivers within the segment due to the different spending patterns within a segment or sub segment. Processing the segments using objective segmentation in addition to subjective segmentation provides more accurate and homogeneous segmentation. This may occur because as sales revenues increase for a particular retailer the opportunity to access more discounts increases. Accordingly there are significant differences in the way in which a retailer having high sales revenues is exposed to a discount and or available discount scheme relative to a retailer having a low sales revenue. Thus the initial sales revenue used for segmentation may be considered to be a surrogate variable for the discount and optimization.

Note that for purposes of illustration only shows each of the sub segments sub divided into two final sub segments each. However the sub segments may be further divided into any suitable number of final sub segments as supported by the corresponding data. The sub segments having a letter designation are referred to as final sub segments A R . Preferably the total number of final sub segments is between about 8 and about 20. As the number of final sub segments increases above 20 the cost of implementing this approach becomes expensive compared to the money saved due to optimization of the spending parameters. In some applications the number of selling entities is at least 20 000.

As the number of segments increases processing requirements increase. Application of various software modules may also become time intensive without applying an upper limit on the number of final segments.

Segmentation regression analysis is performed so that each of the final sub segments A R contains between about 5 to about 10 of the total number of retailers or universe of retailers. Thus for the illustrated example having 127 220 retailers each final sub segment on average may contain data corresponding to between about 6 360 retailers 5 to about 12 720 retailers 10 . Accordingly such a large number of data points in each final sub segment imply a fragmented market. In some applications a final sub segment may contain data for as few as about 1 000 retailers based on twenty buckets derived from a universe of about 20 000 retailers. A smaller universe of retailers may not provide a statistically significant sample size for analysis.

After the final sub segments A R have been identified a further level of regression analysis referred to as spend driver regression analysis is applied to each final sub segment A R to identify the spend drivers or spending parameters that have the greatest influence. Note that during spend driver regression analysis regression is performed only with respect to variables considered to be spend drivers. Thus within each final sub segment A R the revenue value is regressed with respect to the spend drivers or spend variables to determine which spend drivers have the greatest influence. The result of spend driver regression analysis is a plurality of response curves showing profit for a particular product or product group as a function of the selected spend driver. Profit may be maximized by selecting the optimal value of the corresponding spend driver.

Different regression processes may be used to generate the response curves and to perform final segmentation. For example regression trees Chi squared regression least squares regression regression sum of sequences error sum of sequences and other regression processes and techniques may be used.

After the final sub segments A R have been identified which contain retailer data having substantially homogeneous responses to pertinent spend variables response curves may be produced for each product category and for each of the significant spend drivers. Thus in the example of response curves corresponding to the spend drivers of interest may be produced for each of the product categories namely hair care products oral care products digestive and confectionary products health supplement products skin and baby products and home care products. Many different spend variables may be used to produce the corresponding response curves. Such response curves may be generated for each final sub segment. For example Table 3 below lists some exemplary variables that may be used in accordance with the business model described with respect to e.g. six broad product categories . Accordingly some of the spend variables may change depending on the product mix of the business under analysis.

Some of the above variables in Table 3 may be derived from other variables captured from the business environment. For example data from point of sale terminals shown in Table 4 below data from retailer and stockists shown in Table 5 below and data from Product Hierarchy and Scheme Calendars shown in Table 6 below may be used to derive some of the variables shown in Table 1 as follows 

Once the spend drivers have been optimized the spend drivers having the most impact most significant spend levers or effect on profit may be selected for iterative analysis. Analysis may be performed again using the most significant spend drivers to fine tune the spend lever curves.

The response graph for total dealer discount is capped at a maximum of 2.5 . In this specific response graph the dealer discount is not specific to a product as is the case for the response curves relating to hair care products health supplement products and oral care products . Rather in this response graph the dealer discount is in the form of a cash discount that the manufacturer provides to the retailer based on the total bill or invoice irrespective of the products involved.

The response graphs and may indicate that increased net profit correlates with an increase in the spend driver up to an optimal point . This means that incentives provided to the retailer for a particular product or product category translate into more profit for that product. On the other hand the response curves may show that net profit is relatively unaffected by changes in the value of the spend driver. This may occur in certain circumstances such as when a group of consumers is very brand loyal and is not willing to switch to an incentivized product.

The graphical output report includes a user settable slide graph that provides slidable tabs that the user may dynamically adjust to change the level of the corresponding driver. The user may adjust a hair care spend driver a health supplement spend driver an oral care spend driver and a dealer discount spend driver by moving the graphically displayed slidable tab along the horizontal axis. As the user changes the value of the spend driver along the slide graph the value of the incremental profit changes accordingly.

Each of the four slide graphs includes three portions which would be shown in red yellow and green in a color representation. To indicate this in the black and white illustration of a red portion is shown as reference numeral and indicates a negative or undesirable value of incremental profit given a selected value of the spend driver based on the horizontal position of the sliding tab. A yellow portion is shown as reference numeral and indicates a positive but not optimal value of incremental profit given a selected value of the spend driver based on the horizontal position of the sliding tab. A green portion is shown as reference numeral and indicates a positive and optimal value of incremental profit given a selected value of the spend driver based on the horizontal position of the sliding tab.

As shown in the user settable slide graph when the tab is placed over a red section the value for incremental profit is negative which of course is undesirable. The user may move the slide tab so that it corresponds to a green portion which represents a positive incremental profit. Movement of the slide tab along a green segment maximizes incremental profit as shown numerically in numerical output display portions .

A total effects display area shows the total effects of changes in the various spend drivers as the user moves the sliding tabs. The total effects display area shows the total effects for gross increment net increment and incremental profit as the value of the corresponding spend drivers are dynamically increased and decreased by the user. The value of gross increment net increment and incremental profit are also shown in numerical output display portions . The total effects display area illustrates the total effect that all of the spend drivers have on gross increment net increment and incremental profit . By optimizing the various spend drivers profit may be maximized.

In some situations and in particular with large manufacturers revenue may typically be enhanced by about 6 by using the system for optimizing trade promotion and distribution spending . Similarly if revenue is kept constant a cost reduction of about 10 to 15 may be realized for trade schemes and discounts. Such revenue changes may be realized provided that there are no macro economic changes e.g. global economic recession .

The report generator that produces the graphical output report may be a commercially available product that receives data from the system for optimizing trade promotion and distribution spending and produces a graphical output report. Such a report generator may be a Crystal Xcelsius report generator available from Business Objects Corp. an SAP company .

In some configurations the system for optimizing trade promotion and distribution spending may be provided to a customer on a stand alone basis. In such a configuration the customer may implement the system in the customer s computing platform so that the customer can refine the spend levers over time as a particular spending scheme matures or ends and results corresponding to that scheme have been evaluated. In other configurations a customer may employ a business consultant or team of business consultants to implement and operate the system for optimizing trade promotion and distribution spending and provide the output or report to the customer s management team. The business consultants may provide analysis and insight to the customer based on the results generated by the system for optimizing trade promotion and distribution spending.

Note that the above generally describes processing with respect to data associated with a plurality of retailers. However the system for optimizing trade promotion and distribution spending may also be applied to other selling entities to achieve similar results. Accordingly the processes of data collection segmentation regression analysis and response curve generation may also be applied to the channel partners such as the carrying and forwarding agents distributors and wholesalers. Further the above described systems and methods are not limited to the gathering and processing of data related to goods. Such systems and methods may be applied to services as well as goods such as services provided by the telecommunication and pharmaceutical industries for example. Any product whether a good or a service typically sold in a market economy may be optimized using the systems and methods described in this document.

The system for optimizing trade promotion and distribution spending may be embodied as a system cooperating with computer hardware components and or as a computer implemented method. Referring now to a specific embodiment of a high level hardware block diagram of a computer system on which the above described system and method may be implemented is shown generally. A computer system includes a computer or processing system which includes various hardware components such as RAM ROM hard disk storage cache memory database storage and the like also referred to as memory subsystem . The computer system may include any suitable processing device such as a computer microprocessor RISC processor reduced instruction set computer CISC processor complex instruction set computer mainframe computer work station single chip computer distributed processor server controller micro controller discrete logic computer and the like as is known in the art. For example the processing device may be an Intel Pentium microprocessor x86 compatible microprocessor or equivalent device. The processing system may include or may be programmed to provide both a segmentation process or module and an analysis process or processor. Segmentation and analysis processing may be performed in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software.

The memory subsystem may include any suitable storage components such as RAM EPROM electrically programmable ROM flash memory dynamic memory static memory FIFO first in first out memory LIFO last in first out memory circular memory semiconductor memory bubble memory buffer memory disk memory optical memory cache memory and the like. Any suitable form of memory may be used whether fixed storage on a magnetic medium storage in a semiconductor device or remote storage accessible through a communication link. A user or system manager interface may be coupled to the computer system and may include various input devices such as switches selectable by the system manager and or a keyboard. The user interface also may include suitable output devices such as an LCD display a CRT various LED indicators and or a speech output device as is known in the art.

To facilitate communication between the computer system and external sources a communication interface may be operatively coupled to the computer system. The communication interface may be for example a local area network such as an Ethernet network intranet Internet or other suitable network . The communication interface may also be connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN or POTS plain old telephone system which may facilitate communication via the Internet . Dedicated and remote networks may also be employed and the system may further communicate with external exchanges and sources of information . Any suitable commercially available communication device or network may be used.

The logic circuitry and processing described above may be encoded in a computer readable medium such as a CDROM disk flash memory RAM or ROM an electromagnetic signal or other machine readable medium as instructions for execution by a processor. Alternatively or additionally the logic may be implemented as analog or digital logic using hardware such as one or more integrated circuits or one or more processors executing instructions or in software in an application programming interface API or in a Dynamic Link Library DLL functions available in a shared memory or defined as local or remote procedure calls or as a combination of hardware and software.

The logic may be represented in e.g. stored on or in a computer readable medium machine readable medium propagated signal medium and or signal bearing medium. The media may comprise any device that contains stores communicates propagates or transports executable instructions for use by or in connection with an instruction executable system apparatus or device. The machine readable medium may selectively be but is not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or infrared signal or a semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. A non exhaustive list of examples of a machine readable medium includes a magnetic or optical disk a volatile memory such as a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM an Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory i.e. EPROM or Flash memory or an optical fiber. A machine readable medium may also include a tangible medium upon which executable instructions are printed as the logic may be electronically stored as an image or in another format e.g. through an optical scan and then compiled and or interpreted or otherwise processed. The processed medium may then be stored in a computer and or machine memory.

The systems may include additional or different logic and may be implemented in many different ways. A controller may be implemented as a microprocessor microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC discrete logic or a combination of other types of circuits or logic. Similarly memories may be DRAM SRAM Flash or other types of memory. Parameters e.g. conditions and thresholds and other data structures may be separately stored and managed may be incorporated into a single memory or database or may be logically and physically organized in many different ways. Programs and instruction sets may be parts of a single program separate programs or distributed across several memories and processors.

The system for optimizing incentive based spending parameters associated with goods provided by a manufacturer in fragmented markets includes a computer having a processor and memory data collection means for aggregating data for sales of goods associated with a plurality of retailers segmentation means for separating the aggregated data corresponding to retailers into coarse segments based on a predetermined portion of the plurality of retailers and analysis means for applying regression analysis to each of the coarse segments based on key segmentation variables to determine a primary key segmentation variable and a secondary key segmentation variable where the primary and a secondary key segmentation variables having a highest correlation with sales revenue. The segmentation means further separates the aggregated data corresponding to retailers into sub segments based on predetermined ranges of the primary key segmentation variable and further divides the sub segments into final sub segments based on predetermined ranges of the secondary key segmentation variable. The analysis means applies regression analysis to each final sub segment to identify incentive based spending parameters having a highest correlation with sales revenue and the analysis means generates for each final sub segment one or more response curves corresponding to the identified incentive based spending parameters. Reporting means provides a graphical output of the response curves where the respective response curves provide an indication of a relationship between a selected value of the identified incentive based spending parameter and a profit level of the manufacturer.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

