---

title: Micro-RNAs modulating immunity and inflammation
abstract: MicroRNAs are shown to be up- and/or down-regulated in inflammation and immune cells using a mouse model of asthma and regulatory T cells as source of RNA, respectively. Modulating the expression of these microRNAs can be effective in redirecting inflammation and immunity and hence, can be beneficial as biomarkers or as therapeutic agents against diverse human immunologic and inflammatory diseases.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08415096&OS=08415096&RS=08415096
owner: University of South Florida
number: 08415096
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080523
---
This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. 1R41HL076964 01 and 1R41HL078298 awarded by the National Institute for Health. The Government therefore has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to microRNA molecules associated with the regulation of gene expression. More specifically this invention relates to microRNAs modulating immunity and inflammation and their use in diagnosis prevention and treatment of immune related diseases in mammals for example humans and further relates to screening methods to identify compounds and reagents useful in diagnosis prevention and therapy of immune related diseases and inflammation.

Asthma is a chronic disease that affects the airways of the respiratory system. In the United States about 20 million people have been diagnosed with asthma nearly half of those affected being children. The incidence of asthma is rising in developed countries though there is great variation in incidence between countries and socioeconomic groups.

Episodes of asthma are characterized by a constriction of the airways as the airways become inflamed and excessive amounts of mucus line the airways. Due to the narrowing of reactive airways less air is able to flow to the lungs. This can result in wheezing coughing chest tightness and trouble breathing especially at night and in the early morning. The exact triggers for asthma are not clear cut. Moreover triggers may be due to a combination of factors. Recognized triggers include allergens e.g. animal dander dust mites pollen and mold irritants e.g. cigarette smoke air pollution cold air or changes in weather strong odors such as those from painting or cooking scented products or perfumes moist air exercise or exertion or emotional stress or other factors such as certain medicines e.g. aspirin and beta blockers sulfites in food dried fruit or beverages wine gastroesophageal reflux and infections. In children the most common triggers are viral illnesses such as those that cause the common cold. The disease also has a significant genetic component.

The development of asthma involves many genes and environmental factors. An understanding of the genetic basis of the disease has great implications its management. To date dozens of genes have been associated with asthma. Many of the genes are related to the immune system or to modulating inflammation. However results have not been consistent among various populations studied indicating that there is variation in the disease and not all genes are associated with asthma under every condition. The heterogeneity in the disease highlights the complex interactions causing the disease and the need for further study to fully understand the mechanisms involved.

The symptoms of asthma can range from mild to life threatening. Symptoms can usually be controlled with a combination of drugs and environmental changes. Treatment for asthma includes avoiding triggers such as allergens and irritants monitoring asthma and associated symptoms and asthma medicines. Current asthma medicines include beta agonists bronchodilators corticosteroids theophylline and leukotriene modifiers.

MicroRNAs are shown to be up and or down regulated in inflammation and immune cells using a mouse model of asthma and regulatory T cells as source of RNA respectively. Modulating the expression of these microRNAs can be effective in redirecting inflammation and immunity and hence may be beneficial as biomarkers or as therapeutic agents against diverse human immunologic and inflammatory diseases.

In a first aspect the present invention provides a method of screening asthma in a subject. The method includes the steps of assaying the miRNA expression level in a test sample of tissue from the subject to be screened for asthma comparing the assayed the miRNA expression level to the miRNA expression level in a normal sample providing a control relative to the test sample of the subject and computing the differential expression of the miRNA from the subject.

The assayed miRNA can be miR 765 miR 711 miR 690 miR 709 miR 762 miR 296 miR 671 miR 680 miR 760 miR 710 miR 320. miR 770 3p miR 601 miR 577 miR 340 miR 326 miR 515 3p miR 494 miR 142 3p miR 705 miR 674 let 7f miR 466 miR 540 miR 702 miR 584 miR 505 miR 17 3p miR 721 miR 202 miR 564 miR 759 miR 638 miR 295 miR 325 miR 470 miR 573 miR 206 miR 298 miR 671 miR 198 miR 370 miR 320 miR 766 miR 610 let 7d let 7b let 7a miR 150 miR 630 miR 185 miR 659 miR 625 miR 214 miR 493 3p miR 296 miR 513 miR 768 5p miR 637 miR 551a let 7c miR 542 5p miR 320 miR 611 miR 381 miR 328 miR 518c miR 27a miR 608 miR 30d hsa miR 575 miR 21 and miR 658.

In an advantageous embodiment the at least one of the miRNAs assayed is an asthma associated miRNA under expressed in asthma. The under expressed miRNA can be miR 690 miR 709 miR 762 miR 320 miR 494 miR 142 3p let 7f miR 550 miR 759 miR 573 miR 150 miR 214 miR 637 let7c miR 381 miR 27a and miR 575.

In another advantageous embodiment the at least one of the miRNAs assayed is an asthma associated miRNA over expressed in asthma. The over expressed miRNA can be miR 760 miR 515 3p and miR 671.

In a second aspect the present invention provides a method of identifying miRNA biomarkers of immunologic disease. The method includes the steps of generating an miRNA expression profile for a test sample representative of the immunologic disease generating an miRNA expression profile for a control sample not exhibiting the disease condition and comparing the miRNA expression profile of the test sample with the miRNA expression profile of control sample wherein the differential expression of the miRNA identifies potential miRNA biomarkers for immunologic disease.

In a third aspect the present invention provides a method of identifying miRNA biomarkers of inflammation. The method includes the steps of contacting a sample or sample tissue with an agent to induce an inflammatory response in the sample or sample tissue generating an miRNA expression profile for the sample contacted with the agent generating an miRNA expression profile for a control sample not contacted with the agent and comparing the miRNA expression profile of the sample with an miRNA expression profile of a sample not contacted with the agent. The differential expression of the miRNA in the sample contacted with the agent identifies potential miRNA biomarkers for the inflammation.

In a fourth aspect the present invention provides a method for identifying miRNA biomarkers of asthma in a subject. The method includes the steps of contacting a sample of the subject with an asthma trigger agent generating an miRNA expression profile for the sample contacted with the agent generating an miRNA expression profile for a control sample not contacted with the asthma trigger agent and comparing the miRNA expression profile of the sample with an miRNA expression profile of a sample not contacted with the candidate asthma trigger agent. The differential expression of the miRNA in the sample contacted with the agent identifies potential miRNA biomarkers for the subject.

In a fifth aspect the present invention provides a method for identifying asthma trigger agents in a subject. The method includes the steps of contacting a tissue sample from the subject with a candidate asthma trigger agent assaying the resulting miRNA expression level in the contacted tissue comparing the miRNA expression profile of the contacted tissue sample with an miRNA expression profile of a sample not contacted with the candidate asthma trigger agent wherein the differential expression of the miRNA in the sample contacted with the agent identifies potential asthma trigger agents for the subject.

The assayed miRNA can include miR 765 miR 711 miR 690 miR 709 miR 762 miR 296 miR 671 miR 680 miR 760 miR 710 miR 320. miR 770 3p miR 601 miR 577 miR 340 miR 326 miR 515 3p miR 494 miR 142 3p miR 705 miR 674 let 7f miR 466 miR 540 miR 702 miR 584 miR 505 miR 17 3p miR 721 miR 202 miR 564 miR 759 miR 638 miR 295 miR 325 miR 470 miR 573 miR 206 miR 298 miR 671 miR 198 miR 370 miR 320 miR 766 miR 610 let 7d let 7b let 7a miR 150 miR 630 miR 185 miR 659 miR 625 miR 214 miR 493 3p miR 296 miR 513 miR 768 5p miR 637 miR 551a let 7c miR 542 5p miR 320 miR 611 miR 381 miR 328 miR 518c miR 27a miR 608 miR 30d hsa miR 575 miR 21 and miR 658.

In an advantageous embodiment the at least one of the miRNAs assayed is an asthma associated miRNA under expressed in asthma. The under expressed miRNA can be miR 690 miR 709 miR 762 miR 320 miR 494 miR 142 3p let 7f miR 550 miR 759 miR 573 miR 150 miR 214 miR 637 let7c miR 381 miR 27a and miR 575.

In another advantageous embodiment the at least one of the miRNAs assayed is an asthma associated miRNA over expressed in asthma. The over expressed miRNA can be miR 760 miR 515 3p and miR 671.

In a sixth aspect the present invention provides a method for screening for candidate asthma therapeutic agents. The method includes the steps of assaying miRNA expression levels in a control sample to determine baseline miRNA expression levels for the sample contacting a test sample with one or more therapeutic agents and one or more asthma trigger agents assaying the resulting miRNA expression level in the test sample comparing the miRNA expression level in the test sample to the baseline miRNA expression level to determine the treated miRNA deviation contacting a control sample with the one or more asthma trigger agents assaying the resulting miRNA expression level in the control sample to determine an exposed control comparing the miRNA expression level in the exposed control to the baseline miRNA expression level to determine the exposed miRNA deviation and comparing the treated miRNA deviation with the exposed miRNA deviation wherein a reduced deviation in the treated miRNA deviation relative to the exposed miRNA deviation identifies a candidate asthma therapeutic agent.

The assayed miRNA can be miR 765 miR 711 miR 690 miR 709 miR 762 miR 296 miR 671 miR 680 miR 760 miR 710 miR 320. miR 770 3p miR 601 miR 577 miR 340 miR 326 miR 515 3p miR 494 miR 142 3p miR 705 miR 674 let 7f miR 466 miR 540 miR 702 miR 584 miR 505 miR 17 3p miR 721 miR 202 miR 564 miR 759 miR 638 miR 295 miR 325 miR 470 miR 573 miR 206 miR 298 miR 671 miR 198 miR 370 miR 320 miR 766 miR 610 let 7d let 7b let 7a miR 150 miR 630 miR 185 miR 659 miR 625 miR 214 miR 493 3p miR 296 miR 513 miR 768 5p miR 637 miR 551a let 7c miR 542 5p miR 320 miR 611 miR 381 miR 328 miR 518c miR 27a miR 608 miR 30d hsa miR 575 miR 21 and miR 658.

In a seventh aspect the present invention provides a method for treating inflammation or an immunologic disorder. The method includes the steps of contacting a cell or cells with an agent that modulates the expression of one or more miRNA in the cell.

In certain embodiments the agent is an agent that upregulates the expression of at least one of the one or more miRNA. In further embodiments thereof the agent is a vector comprising an miRNA sequence or a derivative or analog thereof underexpressed in the associated disease. The underexpressed miRNA can be miR 690 miR 709 miR 762 miR 320 miR 494 miR 142 3p let 7f miR 550 miR 759 miR 573 miR 150 miR 214 miR 637 let7c miR 381 miR 27a and miR 575.

In alternative embodiments the agent is an agent that downregulates the expression of at least one of the one or more miRNA. In further embodiments thereof the agent is a vector comprising an miRNA sequence or a derivative or analog thereof overexpressed in the associated disease. The over expressed miRNA can be miR 760 miR 515 3p and miR 671. The agent can be an antisense RNA to the overexpressed miRNA.

MicroRNAs miRNA are small about 18 to 25 bp non coding RNAs that negatively regulate mRNA translation on a sequence specific manner. Like protein coding mRNA miRNA precursors are transcribed by RNA polymerase II spliced and polyadenylated. However unlike mRNA miRNA precursors will be further processed into functional single stranded mature miRNAs. The mature miRNA then guides a complex called miRISC miRNA induced silence complex to its target mRNA to block the translation. Croce C. M. and Calin G. A. 2005 122 6 7 To date 474 human miRNAs and 377 mouse miRNA have been identified according to the miRNA database miRBase http microrna.sanger.ac.uk . It is believed that the number of miRNAs could exceed 1000 which constitute approximately 1 5 of the expressed genes. Bioinformatics analyses suggest that on average each miRNA may regulate about 200 genes. Therefore as much as 30 to 50 of all human genes may be under miRNA control. MiRNAs are important negative regulators of many if not all human genes and thus involved in many if not all cellular processes. Moreover the levels of individual miRNAs are dramatically changed in different cell types and developmental stages suggesting that miRNA may play profound and pervasive roles in cell development proliferation and apoptosis. Correspondingly their expression patterns are highly regulated. Deregulation of miRNA function might contribute to many human diseases including tumorigenesis.

Expression profiling of miRNA in numerous human cancer cell lines and primary cancers demonstrates that aberrant miRNA expression is a hallmark of tumor development. Gaur A. et al. 2007 67 2456 68 Aberrant expression of specific miRNA genes contributes to the initiation and progression of cancer suggesting that miRNA genes could function as potential oncogenes and repressors in the human body. Lee Y. S. and Dutta A. The tumor suppressor microRNA let 7 represses the HMGA2 oncogene. 2007 Croce C. M. and Calin G. A. 2005 122 6 7 Recent work has shown that there is a global decrease of miRNA expression in human cancers compared with normal tissues and global repression of miRNA maturation promotes cellular transformation and tumorigenesis suggesting that global miRNA loss may enhance tumorigenesis. Kumar M. S. et al. Impaired microRNA processing enhances cellular transformation and tumorigenesis. 2007 Impaired microRNA processing enhances cellular transformation and tumorigenesis.

Moreover accumulated evidences show that miRNAs may serve as a fine tuner of gene expression. For example miRNA profiling has been successfully used to classify different cancers including poorly differentiated tumors and different cell lineages whereas mRNA profiles were highly inaccurate when applied to the same samples subsets of miRNAs were strongly associated with tumor sizes and race. Wang T. et al. 2007 46 336 47 These findings highlight that the expression pattern of miRNA profiling can be of greater value than that of 13 000 protein encoding genes in cancer diagnosis and prognosis. Lu J. et al. 2005 435 834 8 Michael M. Z. et al. 2003 1 882 91 Lee E. J. et al. 2007 120 1046 54 It appears that miRNAs are so far the best molecular signatures for development and tumorigenesis.

The human Bic miRNA 155 gene which is 96 identical with the mature mouse microRNA is located in a region of chromosome 21 associated with asthma pollen sensitivity and atopic dermatitis. Hence it is thought that the equivalent human microRNA may be linked with the onset of some immune diseases. FoxP3 directly direct the transcription of mir 155.

These compelling data have demonstrated that miRNA may play an important role in tumorigenesis. However all these studies were conducted on tumors that are usually highly heterogeneous cancer cells in the same tumor may have different miRNA expression patterns from each other and the results may be a mixture of different miRNA expression patterns. Recent findings suggest that tumor heterogeneity may be a result of the differentiation of a few cancer stem cells CSCs which have been described in acute myeloid leukemia breast brain bone lung melanoma and prostate. Tysnes B. B. Bjerkvig R. Cancer initiation and progression Involvement of stem cells and the microenvironment. 2007 This concept has profound implications both in cancer theory and cancer therapy. Based on this concept tumors are originated from a few cancer stem cells which are responsible for tumor growth and metastasis. Therefore specifically targeting CSCs may be more efficient at inhibiting cancer growth and metastasis and studying miRNA in CSCs may greatly further our understanding of tumorigenesis. However miRNA has not been explored in CSCs.

Recent findings show that miRNAs are required for cell division and pluripotency maintenance of normal stem cells. Hatfield S. D. et al. 2005 435 974 8 Houbaviy H. B. et al. 2003 5 351 8 CSCs are very similar to their counterpart normal stem cells in many aspects and there is strong evidence show that CSC are derived from normal stem cells that have gradually accumulated various genetic and epigenetic defects as a result of a general loss of repression decreased expression of miRNA genes resulting in uncontrolled proliferation. Tysnes B. B. Bjerkvig R. Cancer initiation and progression Involvement of stem cells and the microenvironment. 2007 Costa F. F. et al. 2007 25 707 11 Giangreco A. et al. 2007 175 547 53 Oakley E. J. Van Zant G. 2007 21 612 21 Normal lung BSCs can directly act as originating cells for bronchoalveolar carcinomas. Kim C. F. et al. 2005 121 823 35 .

MicroRNAs miRNAs are short 22 nt non coding RNAs that regulate gene expression in a quick and accurate manner by targeting hundreds of genes per miRNA in response to environmental and internal signals. MiRNAs are involved in a remarkable spectrum of biological pathways and are well suited for studying complex human diseases such as asthma. Successful immunotherapy appears to result in increased number of T regulatory cells Treg which inhibit activation of Th2 and Th1 cells. This suggests that the lack of Treg cells promotes asthma pathogenesis.1 It is hypothesized that miRNA may play a critical role in controlling pathogenesis of asthma by regulating the function of Treg and TH2 cells.

The present invention provides a method of detection classification diagnosis or prognosis of inflammation immunologic disease or disorder or hyperproliferative diseases on at least one sample obtained from an individual. The individual may be any mammal but is preferably a human. The individual may be any individual an individual predisposed of a disease or an individual suffering from a disease.

A sample as defined herein is a small part of an individual representative of the whole and may be constituted by a biopsy or a body fluid sample. Biopsies are small pieces of tissue and may be fresh frozen or fixed such as formalin fixed and paraffin embedded FFPE . Body fluid samples may be blood plasma serum urine sputum cerebrospinal fluid milk or ductal fluid samples and may likewise be fresh frozen or fixed. Samples may be removed surgically by extraction i.e. by hypodermic or other types of needles by microdissection or laser capture.

As the object of the present invention regards inflammation immunologic disease or disorder or hyperproliferative diseases obtaining more than one sample such as two samples such as three samples four samples or more from individuals and preferably the same individual is of importance. The at least two samples may be taken from normal tissue and hyperproliferative tissue respectively. This allows the relative comparison of expression both as in the presence or absence of at least one nucleic acid and or the level of expression of the at least one nucleic acid between the two samples. Alternatively a single sample may be compared against a standardized sample such a sample being a sample comprising material or data from several samples preferably also from several individuals. A standardized sample may comprise either normal or hyperproliferative sample material or data.

With respect to hyperproliferative disorders In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the method of detection classification diagnosis or prognosis is performed on a biopsy. In a more preferred embodiment of the present invention the method of detection classification diagnosis or prognosis is performed on a body fluid sample such as a blood sample or a ductal fluid sample. Ductal fluid samples may be from nipple aspirates or ductal lavage.

Before analyzing the sample it will often be desirable to perform one or more sample preparation operations upon the sample. Typically these sample preparation operations will include such manipulations as concentration suspension extraction of intracellular material e.g. nucleic acids from tissue whole cell samples and the like amplification of nucleic acids fragmentation transcription labelling and or extension reactions.

Nucleic acids especially RNA and specifically miRNA can be isolated using any techniques known in the art. There are two main methods for isolating RNA phenol based extraction and silica matrix or glass fiber filter GFF based binding. Phenol based reagents contain a combination of denaturants and RNase inhibitors for cell and tissue disruption and subsequent separation of RNA from contaminants. Phenol based isolation procedures can recover RNA species in the 10 200 nucleotide range e.g. miRNAs 5S rRNA 5.8S rRNA and U1 snRNA. If a sample of total RNA was purified by the popular silica matrix column or GFF procedure it may be depleted in small RNAs. Extraction procedures such as those using Trizol or TriReagent however will purify all RNAs large and small and are the recommended methods for isolating total RNA from biological samples that will contain miRNAs siRNAs.

Any method required for the processing of a sample prior to detection by any of the herein mentioned methods falls within the scope of the present invention. These methods are typically well known by a person skilled in the art.

It is within the general scope of the present invention to provide methods for the detection of miRNA. An aspect of the present invention relates to the detection of the miRNA sequences of as described in the plots and graphs of the figures contained herein. By detection is meant both 1 detection in the sense of presence versus absence of one or more miRNAs as well as 2 the registration of the level or degree of expression of one or more miRNAs depending on the method of detection employed.

The detection of one or more nucleic acid molecules allows for the classification diagnosis and prognosis of a disease such as a immunologic disease e.g. a hypersensitivity associated with asthma alternatively inflammatory disease. The classification of a disease is of relevance both medically and scientifically and may provide important information useful for the diagnosis prognosis and treatment of the disease. The diagnosis of a disease is the affirmation of the presence of the disease based as is the object of the present invention on the expression of at least one miRNA or miRNA precursor molecule herein also referred to as a nucleic acid molecule. Prognosis is the estimate or prediction of the probable outcome of a disease and the prognosis of a disease is greatly facilitated by increasing the amount of information on the particular disease. The method of detection is thus a central aspect of the present invention.

Any method of detection falls within the general scope of the present invention. The detection methods may be generic for the detection of nucleic acids especially RNA or be optimized for the detection of small RNA species as both mature and precursor miRNAs fall into this category or be specially designed for the detection of miRNA species. The detection methods may be directed towards the scoring of a presence or absence of one or more nucleic acid molecules or may be useful in the detection of expression levels.

The detection methods can be divided into two categories herein referred to as in situ methods or screening methods. The term in situ method refers to the detection of nucleic acid molecules in a sample wherein the structure of the sample has been preserved. This may thus be a biopsy wherein the structure of the tissue is preserved. In situ methods are generally histological i.e. microscopic in nature and include but are not limited to methods such as in situ hybridization techniques and in situ PCR methods.

Screening methods generally employ techniques of molecular biology and most often require the preparation of the sample material in order to access the nucleic acid molecules to be detected. Screening methods include but are not limited to methods such as Array systems affinity matrices Northern blotting and PCR techniques such as real time quantitative RT PCR.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a probe which can be used for the detection of a nucleic acid molecule as defined herein. A probe as defined herein is a specific sequence of a nucleic acid used to detect nucleic acids by hybridization. A nucleic acid is also here any nucleic acid natural or synthetic such as DNA RNA LNA or PNA. A probe may be labeled tagged or immobilized or otherwise modified according to the requirements of the detection method chosen. A label or a tag is an entity making it possible to identify a compound to which it is associated. It is within the scope of the present invention to employ probes that are labeled or tagged by any means known in the art such as but not limited to radioactive labeling fluorescent labeling and enzymatic labeling. Furthermore the probe labeled or not may be immobilized to facilitate detection according to the detection method of choice and this may be accomplished according to the preferred method of the particular detection method.

An aspect of the present invention regards the detection of nucleic acid molecules by any method known in the art. In the following are given examples of various detection methods that can be employed for this purpose and the present invention includes all the mentioned methods but is not limited to any of these.

In situ hybridization ISH applies and extrapolates the technology of nucleic acid hybridization to the single cell level and in combination with the art of cytochemistry immunocytochemistry and immunohistochemistry permits the maintenance of morphology and the identification of cellular markers to be maintained and identified allows the localization of sequences to specific cells within populations such as tissues and blood samples. ISH is a type of hybridization that uses a complementary nucleic acid to localize one or more specific nucleic acid sequences in a portion or section of tissue in situ or if the tissue is small enough in the entire tissue whole mount ISH . DNA ISH can be used to determine the structure of chromosomes and the localization of individual genes and optionally their copy numbers. Fluorescent DNA ISH FISH can for example be used in medical diagnostics to assess chromosomal integrity. RNA ISH is used to assay expression and gene expression patterns in a tissue across cells such as the expression of miRNAs nucleic acid molecules as herein described. Sample cells are treated to increase their permeability to allow the probe to enter the cells the probe is added to the treated cells allowed to hybridize at pertinent temperature and then excess probe is washed away. A complementary probe is labeled with a radioactive fluorescent or antigenic tag so that the probe s location and quantity in the tissue can be determined using autoradiography fluorescence microscopy or immunoassay respectively. The sample may be any sample as herein described. The probe is likewise a probe according to any probe based upon the miRNAs mentioned herein.

An embodiment of the present invention regards the method of detection by in situ hybridization as described herein.

In situ PCR is the PCR based amplification of the target nucleic acid sequences prior to ISH. For detection of RNA an intracellular reverse transcription RT step is introduced to generate complementary DNA from RNA templates prior to in situ PCR. This enables detection of low copy RNA sequences.

Prior to in situ PCR cells or tissue samples are fixed and permeabilized to preserve morphology and permit access of the PCR reagents to the intracellular sequences to be amplified. PCR amplification of target sequences is next performed either in intact cells held in suspension or directly in cytocentrifuge preparations or tissue sections on glass slides. In the former approach fixed cells suspended in the PCR reaction mixture are thermally cycled using conventional thermal cyclers. After PCR the cells are cytocentrifugated onto glass slides with visualization of intracellular PCR products by ISH or immunohistochemistry. In situ PCR on glass slides is performed by overlaying the samples with the PCR mixture under a coverslip which is then sealed to prevent evaporation of the reaction mixture. Thermal cycling is achieved by placing the glass slides either directly on top of the heating block of a conventional or specially designed thermal cycler or by using thermal cycling ovens. Detection of intracellular PCR products is achieved by one of two entirely different techniques. In indirect in situ PCR by ISH with PCR product specific probes or in direct in situ PCR without ISH through direct detection of labelled nucleotides e.g. digoxigenin 11 dUTP fluorescein dUTP 3H CTP or biotin 16 dUTP which have been incorporated into the PCR products during thermal cycling.

An embodiment of the present invention regards the method of in situ PCR as mentioned herein above for the detection of nucleic acid molecules as detailed herein.

A microarray is a microscopic ordered array of nucleic acids proteins small molecules cells or other substances that enables parallel analysis of complex biochemical samples. A DNA microarray consists of different nucleic acid probes known as capture probes that are chemically attached to a solid substrate which can be a microchip a glass slide or a microsphere sized bead. Microarrays can be used e.g. to measure the expression levels of large numbers of mRNAs miRNAs simultaneously.

Microarrays can be fabricated using a variety of technologies including printing with fine pointed pins onto glass slides photolithography using pre made masks photolithography using dynamic micromirror devices ink jet printing or electrochemistry on microelectrode arrays.

An aspect of the present invention regards the use of microarrays for the expression profiling of miRNAs in immunologic diseases disorders or inflammation. For this purpose and by way of example RNA is extracted from a cell or tissue sample the small RNAs 18 26 nucleotide RNAs are size selected from total RNA using denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis PAGE . Then oligonucleotide linkers are attached to the 5 and 3 ends of the small RNAs and the resulting ligation products are used as templates for an RT PCR reaction with 10 cycles of amplification. The sense strand PCR primer has a Cy3 fluorophore attached to its 5 end thereby fluorescently labelling the sense strand of the PCR product. The PCR product is denatured and then hybridized to the microarray. A PCR product referred to as the target nucleic acid that is complementary to the corresponding miRNA capture probe sequence on the array will hybridize via base pairing to the spot at which the capture probes are affixed. The spot will then fluoresce when excited using a microarray laser scanner. The fluorescence intensity of each spot is then evaluated in terms of the number of copies of a particular miRNA using a number of positive and negative controls and array data normalization methods which will result in assessment of the level of expression of a particular miRNA.

Alternatively total RNA containing the small RNA fraction including the miRNA extracted from a cell or tissue sample is used directly without size selection of small RNAs and 3 end labeled using T4 RNA ligase and either a Cy3 or Cy5 labeled short RNA linker f. ex. 5 PO4 rUrUrU Cy3 dT 3 or 5 PO4 rUrUrU Cy5 dT 3 . The RNA samples are labelled by incubation at 30 C. for 2 hours followed by heat inactivation of the T4 RNA ligase at 80 C. for 5 minutes. The fluorophore labelled miRNAs complementary to the corresponding miRNA capture probe sequences on the array will hybridize via base pairing to the spot at which the capture probes are affixed. The microarray scanning and data processing is carried out as above.

Several types of microarrays can be employed such as spotted oligonucleotide microarrays pre fabricated oligonucleotide microarrays or spotted long oligonucleotide arrays.

In spotted oligonucleotide microarrays the capture probes are oligonucleotides complementary to miRNA sequences. This type of array is typically hybridized with amplified PCR products of size selected small RNAs from two samples to be compared e.g. hyperproliferative and normal samples from an individual that are labelled with two different fluorophores. Alternatively total RNA containing the small RNA fraction including the miRNAs is extracted from the abovementioned two samples and used directly without size selection of small RNAs and 3 end labeled using T4 RNA ligase and short RNA linkers labelled with two different fluorophores. The samples can be mixed and hybridized to one single microarray that is then scanned allowing the visualization of up regulated and down regulated miRNA genes in one go. The downside of this is that the absolute levels of gene expression cannot be observed but the cost of the experiment is reduced by half. Alternatively a universal reference can be used comprising of a large set of fluorophore labelled oligonucleotides complementary to the array capture probes.

In pre fabricated oligonucleotide microarrays or single channel microarrays the probes are designed to match the sequences of known or predicted miRNAs. There are commercially available designs that cover complete genomes from companies such as Affymetrix or Agilent. These microarrays give estimations of the absolute value of gene expression and therefore the comparison of two conditions requires the use of two separate microarrays.

Spotted long Oligonucleotide Arrays are composed of 50 to 70 mer oligonucleotide capture probes and are produced by either ink jet or robotic printing. Short Oligonucleotide Arrays are composed of 20 25 mer oligonucleotide probes and are produced by photolithographic synthesis Affymetrix or by robotic printing. More recently Maskless Array Synthesis from NimbleGen Systems has combined flexibility with large numbers of probes. Arrays can contain up to 390 000 spots from a custom array design.

An embodiment of the present invention regards the method of microarray use and analysis as described herein.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention regards the use of microarrays for the expression profiling of miRNAs in immunologic diseases such as hypersensitivity and especially asthma as well as other inflammatory conditions.

The terms PCR reaction PCR amplification FOR pre PCR Q PCR real time quantitative FOR and real time quantitative RT PCR are interchangeable terms used to signify use of a nucleic acid amplification system which multiplies the target nucleic acids being detected. Examples of such systems include the polymerase chain reaction PCR system and the ligase chain reaction LCR system. Other methods recently described and known to the person of skill in the art are the nucleic acid sequence based amplification and Q Beta Replicase systems. The products formed by said amplification reaction may or may not be monitored in real time or only after the reaction as an end point measurement.

Real time quantitative RT PCR is a modification of polymerase chain reaction used to rapidly measure the quantity of a product of polymerase chain reaction. It is preferably done in real time thus it is an indirect method for quantitatively measuring starting amounts of DNA complementary DNA or ribonucleic acid RNA . This is commonly used for the purpose of determining whether a genetic sequence is present or not and if it is present the number of copies in the sample. There are 3 methods which vary in difficulty and detail. Like other forms of polymerase chain reaction the process is used to amplify DNA samples using thermal cycling and a thermostable DNA polymerase.

The three commonly used methods of quantitative polymerase chain reaction are through agarose gel electrophoresis the use of SYBR Green a double stranded DNA dye and the fluorescent reporter probe. The latter two of these three can be analysed in real time constituting real time polymerase chain reaction method.

Agarose gel electrophoresis is the simplest method but also often slow and less accurate then other methods depending on the running of an agarose gel via electrophoresis. It cannot give results in real time. The unknown sample and a known sample are prepared with a known concentration of a similarly sized section of target DNA for amplification. Both reactions are run for the same length of time in identical conditions preferably using the same primers or at least primers of similar annealing temperatures . Agarose gel electrophoresis is used to separate the products of the reaction from their original DNA and spare primers. The relative quantities of the known and unknown samples are measured to determine the quantity of the unknown. This method is generally used as a simple measure of whether the probe target sequences are present or not and rarely as true Q PCR.

Using SYBR Green dye is more accurate than the gel method and gives results in real time. A DNA binding dye binds all newly synthesized double stranded ds DNA and an increase in fluorescence intensity is measured thus allowing initial concentrations to be determined. However SYBR Green will label all dsDNA including any unexpected PCR products as well as primer dimers leading to potential complications and artefacts. The reaction is prepared as usual with the addition of fluorescent dsDNA dye. The reaction is run and the levels of fluorescence are monitored the dye only fluoresces when bound to the dsDNA. With reference to a standard sample or a standard curve the dsDNA concentration in the PCR can be determined.

The fluorescent reporter probe method is the most accurate and most reliable of the methods. It uses a sequence specific nucleic acid based probe so as to only quantify the probe sequence and not all double stranded DNA. It is commonly carried out with DNA based probes with a fluorescent reporter and a quencher held in adjacent positions so called dual labelled probes. The close proximity of the reporter to the quencher prevents its fluorescence it is only on the breakdown of the probe that the fluorescence is detected. This process depends on the 5 to 3 exonuclease activity of the polymerase involved. The real time quantitative PCR reaction is prepared with the addition of the dual labelled probe. On denaturation of the double stranded DNA template the probe is able to bind to its complementary sequence in the region of interest of the template DNA as the primers will too . When the PCR reaction mixture is heated to activate the polymerase the polymerase starts synthesizing the complementary strand to the primed single stranded template DNA. As the polymerisation continues it reaches the probe bound to its complementary sequence which is then hydrolysed due to the 5 3 exonuclease activity of the polymerase thereby separating the fluorescent reporter and the quencher molecules. This results in an increase in fluorescence which is detected. During thermal cycling of the real time PCR reaction the increase in fluorescence as released from the hydrolysed dual labelled probe in each PCR cycle is monitored which allows accurate determination of the final and so initial quantities of DNA.

Any method of PCR that can determine the expression of a nucleic acid molecule as defined herein falls within the scope of the present invention. A preferred embodiment of the present invention regards the real time quantitative RT PCR method based on the use of either SYBR Green dye or a dual labelled probe for the detection and quantification of nucleic acids according to the herein described. A more preferred embodiment of the present invention regards the methods of real time quantitative RT PCR for the expression profiling of miRNAs in immunologic diseases such as hypersensitivity and asthma.

An aspect of the present invention regards the detection of the nucleic acid molecules herein disclosed by the classical and to the art well known technique of Northern blot analysis. Many variations of the protocol exist.

 Pharmaceutical agent drug or composition refers to any chemical or biological material compound or composition capable of inducing a desired prophylactic or therapeutic effect when properly administered to a patient. Some drugs are sold in an inactive form that is converted in vivo into a metabolite with pharmaceutical activity. For purposes of the present invention the terms pharmaceutical agent drug or composition encompass both the inactive drug and the active metabolite or derivate.

A pharmaceutical composition of the invention is formulated to be compatible with its intended route of administration and may thus comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Examples of routes of administration include parenteral e.g. intravenous intradermal subcutaneous intraperitoneal intramuscular oral e.g. inhalation transdermal topical and transmucosal administration. Solutions or suspensions used for parenteral intradermal or subcutaneous application can include the following components a sterile diluent such as water for injection saline solution fixed oils polyethylene glycols glycerine propylene glycol or other synthetic solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl parabens antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid buffers such as acetates citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. pH can be adjusted with acids or bases such as hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide. The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic. A therapeutically effective amount of a composition containing a composition of the invention is an amount that is capable of modulating the expression of a pre miRNA miRNA or the target of a miRNA according to the herein described. Certain factors may influence the dosage and timing required to effectively treat a subject including but not limited to the severity of the disease or disorder previous treatments the general health and or age of the subject and other diseases present. Moreover treatment of a subject with a therapeutically effective amount of a composition can include a single treatment or a series of treatments.

Aspects of the present invention relate to various vehicles comprising the nucleic acid molecules of the present invention. By vehicle is understood an agent with which genetic material can be transferred. Herein such vehicles are exemplified as nucleic acid constructs vectors and delivery vehicles such as viruses and cells.

By nucleic acid construct is understood a genetically engineered nucleic acid. The nucleic acid construct may be a non replicating and linear nucleic acid a circular expression vector an autonomously replicating plasmid or viral expression vector. A nucleic acid construct may comprise several elements such as but not limited to genes or fragments of same promoters enhancers terminators poly A tails linkers markers and host homologous sequences for integration. Methods for engineering nucleic acid constructs are well known in the art see e.g. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Sambrook et al. eds. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 2nd Edition Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1989 .

Several nucleic acid molecules may be encoded within the same construct and may be linked by an operative linker. By the term operative linker is understood a sequence of nucleotides two parts of a nucleic acid construct in a manner securing the biological processing of the encoded nucleic acid molecules.

The term promoter will be used here to refer to a group of transcriptional control modules that are clustered around the initiation site for RNA polymerase II. Much of the thinking about how promoters are organized derives from analyses of several viral promoters including those for the HSV thymidine kinase tk and SV40 early transcription units. These studies augmented by more recent work have shown that promoters are composed of discrete functional modules each consisting of approximately 7 20 by of DNA and containing one or more recognition sites for transcriptional activator proteins. At least one module in each promoter functions to position the start site for RNA synthesis. The best known example of this is the TATA box but in some promoters lacking a TATA box such as the promoter for the mammalian terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase gene and the promoter for the SV 40 late genes a discrete element overlying the start site itself helps to fix the place of initiation.

Additional promoter elements regulate the frequency of transcriptional initiation. Typically these are located in the region 30 110 by upstream of the start site although a number of promoters have recently been shown to contain functional elements downstream of the start site as well. Depending on the promoter it appears that individual elements can function either cooperatively or independently to activate transcription. Any promoter that can direct transcription initiation of the sequences encoded by the nucleic acid construct may be used in the invention.

An aspect of the present invention comprises the nucleic acid construct wherein the sequence of at least one nucleic acid molecule is preceded by a promoter enabling expression of the at least one nucleic acid molecule.

It is a further aspect that the promoter is selected from the group of constitutive promoters inducible promoters organism specific promoters tissue specific promoters and cell type specific promoters. Examples of promoters include but are not limited to constitutive promoters such as simian virus 40 SV40 early promoter a mouse mammary tumour virus promoter a human immunodeficiency virus long terminal repeat promoter a Moloney virus promoter an avian leukaemia virus promoter an Epstein Barr virus immediate early promoter a Rous sarcoma virus RSV promoter a human actin promoter a human myosin promoter a human haemoglobin promoter cytomegalovirus CMV promoter and a human muscle creatine promoter inducible promoters such as a metallothionine promoter a glucocorticoid promoter a progesterone promoter and a tetracycline promoter tet on or tet off tissue specific promoters such as HER 2 promoter and PSA associated promoter.

An aspect of the present invention comprises the nucleic acid construct as described in any of the above comprised within a delivery vehicle. A delivery vehicle is an entity whereby a nucleotide sequence can be transported from at least one media to another. Delivery vehicles are generally used for expression of the sequences encoded within the nucleic acid construct and or for the intracellular delivery of the construct. It is within the scope of the present invention that the delivery vehicle is a vehicle selected from the group of RNA based vehicles DNA based vehicles vectors lipid based vehicles virally based vehicles and cell based vehicles. Examples of such delivery vehicles include but are not limited to biodegradable polymer microspheres lipid based formulations such as liposome carriers coating the construct onto colloidal gold particles lipopolysaccharides polypeptides polysaccharides pegylation of viral vehicles.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises a virus as a delivery vehicle where the virus is selected from the non exhaustive group of adenoviruses retroviruses lentiviruses adeno associated viruses herpesviruses vaccinia viruses foamy viruses cytomegaloviruses Semliki forest virus poxviruses RNA virus vector and DNA virus vector. Such viral vectors are well known in the art.

The present invention further provides for compositions and methods for treating an individual having or at risk of acquiring a disease or disorder. Treatment includes prophylaxis and or therapy. The disease may be characterized or caused by the overexpression or overactivity of a gene product or alternatively may be caused by the expression or activity of a mutant gene or gene product. The disease may thus be any of the herein mentioned diseases such as immunologic diseases such as hypersensitivty and especially asthma or alternatively inflammation or hyperproliferative diseases.

The present invention provides for both prophylactic and therapeutic methods of treating a subject at risk of or susceptible to a disease or having a disease associated with aberrant or unwanted target gene expression or activity. Another aspect of the invention pertains to methods of modulating target gene expression gene product expression or activity for therapeutic purposes. Accordingly in an exemplary embodiment the modulatory method of the invention involves contacting a cell capable of expressing a target miRNA or the target mRNA of an miRNA with a therapeutic agent e.g. a nucleic acid molecule as described herein that is specific for the target gene or gene product e.g. a nucleic acid molecule as described herein such that expression or one or more of the activities of the target is modulated. These modulatory methods can be performed in vitro e.g. by culturing the cell with the agent or alternatively in vivo e.g. by administering the agent to a subject . As such the present invention provides methods of treating an individual afflicted with a disease or disorder characterized by aberrant or unwanted expression or activity of a target gene product or nucleic acid molecule. Inhibition of target gene activity is desirable in situations in which the target gene is abnormally unregulated and or in which decreased target gene activity is likely to have a beneficial effect.

An aspect of the present invention relates to the treatment of diseases characterized by the upregulation and or downregulation of miRNAs. Such treatments may comprise administering nucleic acid molecules of the present invention in order to downregulate the miRNAs and or upregulate the targets of said miRNAs. A preferred embodiment of the present invention relates to treatments counteracting the upregulation of miR 760 miR 515 3p and miR 671 when these are associated with inflammation immunologic disorder or hyperproliferative diseases. It is further contemplated that other molecules described herein as upregulated can similarly be used in treatment diagnosis or screening methods. Similarly it is contemplated that the results herein described for murine miRNAs using the mmu prefix can can be applied to the human counterpart miRNA using the has prefix . Such treatment may comprise the administration of inhibitory agents e.g. anti sense molecules to directly interact with the overexpressed miRNAs.

Another preferred embodiment of the present invention relates to the treatment of diseases characterized by the downregulation of miRNAs. Such treatments may comprise administering nucleic acid molecules of the present invention in order to upregulate the miRNAs and or downregulate the targets of said miRNAs. A preferred embodiment of the present invention relates to treatments counteracting the downregulation of miR 690 miR 709 miR 762 miR 320 miR 494 miR 142 3p let 7f miR 550 miR 759 miR 573 miR 150 miR 214 miR 637 let7c miR 381 miR 27a and miR 575. It is further contemplated that other molecules described herein as downregulated can similarly be used in treatment diagnosis or screening methods. Such treatment may comprise the administration nucleic acid molecules to supplement the lack of said miRNAs or inducer of the expression of said miRNAs.

The term immunologic disorder refers to a disorder involving cells of the immune system for example lymphocytes. Such immunologic disorders include disorders associated with the inflammatory process for example. The immunologic disorder is not limited to an immunologic cell proliferative disorder.

The term inflammation refers to the local accumulation of fluid plasma proteins and white blood cells initiated by physical injury infection or a local immune response. Inflammatory disorders or diseases are diseases characterized by abnormalities of the inflammation process. Thus representative examples of diseases or disorders associated with an inflammation and are therefore screenable by the methods of the present invention as well as screening candidate therapeutic agents for modulation of inflammation or response associated with miRNA expression levels of the present invention include for example idiopathic inflammatory diseases or disorders chronic inflammatory diseases or disorders acute inflammatory diseases or disorders autoimmune diseases or disorders infectious diseases or disorders inflammatory malignant diseases or disorders inflammatory transplantation related diseases or disorders inflammatory degenerative diseases or disorders diseases or disorders associated with a hypersensitivity inflammatory cardiovascular diseases or disorders inflammatory cerebrovascular diseases or disorders peripheral vascular diseases or disorders inflammatory glandular diseases or disorders inflammatory gastrointestinal diseases or disorders inflammatory cutaneous diseases or disorders inflammatory hepatic diseases or disorders inflammatory neurological diseases or disorders inflammatory musculo skeletal diseases or disorders inflammatory renal diseases or disorders inflammatory reproductive diseases or disorders inflammatory systemic diseases or disorders inflammatory connective tissue diseases or disorders inflammatory tumors necrosis inflammatory implant related diseases or disorders inflammatory aging processes immunodeficiency diseases or disorders proliferative diseases and disorders and inflammatory pulmonary diseases or disorders as is detailed hereinbelow.

Non limiting examples of hypersensitivities include Type I hypersensitivity Type II hypersensitivity Type III hypersensitivity Type IV hypersensitivity immediate hypersensitivity antibody mediated hypersensitivity immune complex mediated hypersensitivity T lymphocyte mediated hypersensitivity delayed type hypersensitivity helper T lymphocyte mediated hypersensitivity cytotoxic T lymphocyte mediated hypersensitivity TH1 lymphocyte mediated hypersensitivity and TH2 lymphocyte mediated hypersensitivity.

Non limiting examples of inflammatory cardiovascular disease or disorder include occlusive diseases or disorders atherosclerosis a cardiac valvular disease stenosis restenosis in stent stenosis myocardial infarction coronary arterial disease acute coronary syndromes congestive heart failure angina pectoris myocardial ischemia thrombosis Wegener s granulomatosis Takayasu s arteritis Kawasaki syndrome anti factor VIII autoimmune disease or disorder necrotizing small vessel vasculitis microscopic polyangiitis Churg and Strauss syndrome pauci immune focal necrotizing glomerulonephritis crescentic glomerulonephritis antiphospholipid syndrome antibody induced heart failure thrombocytopenic purpura autoimmune hemolytic anemia cardiac autoimmunity Chagas disease or disorder and anti helper T lymphocyte autoimmunity.

Stenosis is an occlusive disease of the vasculature commonly caused by atheromatous plaque and enhanced platelet activity most critically affecting the coronary vasculature.

Restenosis is the progressive re occlusion often following reduction of occlusions in stenotic vasculature. In cases where patency of the vasculature requires the mechanical support of a stent in stent stenosis may occur re occluding the treated vessel.

Non limiting examples of cerebrovascular diseases or disorders include stroke cerebrovascular inflammation cerebral hemorrhage and vertebral arterial insufficiency.

Non limiting examples of peripheral vascular diseases or disorders include gangrene diabetic vasculopathy ischemic bowel disease thrombosis diabetic retinopathy and diabetic nephropathy.

Non limiting examples of autoimmune diseases or disorders include all of the diseases caused by an immune response such as an autoantibody or cell mediated immunity to an autoantigen and the like. Representative examples are chronic rheumatoid arthritis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus scleroderma mixed connective tissue disease polyarteritis nodosa polymyositis dermatomyositis Sjogren s syndrome Bechet s disease multiple sclerosis autoimmune diabetes Hashimoto s disease psoriasis primary myxedema pernicious anemia myasthenia gravis chronic active hepatitis autoimmune hemolytic anemia idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura uveitis vasculitides and heparin induced thrombocytopenia.

Non limiting examples of inflammatory glandular diseases or disorders include pancreatic diseases or disorders Type 1 diabetes thyroid diseases or disorders Graves disease thyroiditis spontaneous autoimmune thyroiditis Hashimoto s thyroiditis idiopathic myxedema ovarian autoimmunity autoimmune anti sperm infertility autoimmune prostatitis and Type 1 autoimmune polyglandular syndrome. Non limiting examples of inflammatory gastrointestinal diseases or disorders disorders include colitis ileitis Crohn s disease chronic inflammatory intestinal disease inflammatory bowel syndrome chronic inflammatory bowel disease celiac disease ulcerative colitis an ulcer a skin ulcer a bed sore a gastric ulcer a peptic ulcer a buccal ulcer a nasopharyngeal ulcer an esophageal ulcer a duodenal ulcer and a gastrointestinal ulcer.

Non limiting examples of inflammatory cutaneous diseases or disorders disorders include acne and an autoimmune bullous skin disease.

Non limiting examples of inflammatory hepatic diseases or disorders include autoimmune hepatitis hepatic cirrhosis and biliary cirrhosis.

Non limiting examples of inflammatory neurological diseases or disorders include multiple sclerosis Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease myasthenia gravis motor neuropathy Guillain Barre syndrome autoimmune neuropathy Lambert Eaton myasthenic syndrome paraneoplastic neurological disease or disorder paraneoplastic cerebellar atrophy non paraneoplastic stiff man syndrome progressive cerebellar atrophy Rasmussen s encephalitis amyotrophic lateral sclerosis Sydeham chorea Gilles de la Tourette syndrome autoimmune polyendocrinopathy dysimmune neuropathy acquired neuromyotonia arthrogryposis multiplex Huntington s disease AIDS associated dementia amyotrophic lateral sclerosis AML multiple sclerosis stroke an inflammatory retinal disease or disorder an inflammatory ocular disease or disorder optic neuritis spongiform encephalopathy migraine headache cluster headache and stiff man syndrome.

Non limiting examples of inflammatory connective tissue diseases or disorders include autoimmune myositis primary Sjogren s syndrome smooth muscle autoimmune disease or disorder myositis tendinitis a ligament inflammation chondritis a joint inflammation a synovial inflammation carpal tunnel syndrome arthritis rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis ankylosing spondylitis a skeletal inflammation an autoimmune ear disease or disorder and an autoimmune disease or disorder of the inner ear.

Non limiting examples of inflammatory renal diseases or disorders include autoimmune interstitial nephritis and or renal cancer.

Non limiting examples of inflammatory reproductive diseases or disorders include repeated fetal loss ovarian cyst or a menstruation associated disease or disorder. Non limiting examples of inflammatory systemic diseases or disorders include systemic lupus erythematosus systemic sclerosis septic shock toxic shock syndrome and cachexia.

Non limiting examples of infectious disease or disorder include chronic infectious diseases or disorders a subacute infectious disease or disorder an acute infectious disease or disorder a viral disease or disorder a bacterial disease or disorder a protozoan disease or disorder a parasitic disease or disorder a fungal disease or disorder a mycoplasma disease or disorder gangrene sepsis a prion disease or disorder influenza tuberculosis malaria acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and severe acute respiratory syndrome.

Non limiting examples of inflammatory transplantation related diseases or disorders include graft rejection chronic graft rejection subacute graft rejection acute graft rejection hyperacute graft rejection and graft versus host disease or disorder. Exemplary implants include a prosthetic implant a breast implant a silicone implant a dental implant a penile implant a cardiac implant an artificial joint a bone fracture repair device a bone replacement implant a drug delivery implant a catheter a pacemaker an artificial heart an artificial heart valve a drug release implant an electrode and a respirator tube.

Non limiting examples of inflammatory tumors include a malignant tumor a benign tumor a solid tumor a metastatic tumor and a non solid tumor.

Non limiting examples of inflammatory pulmonary diseases or disorders include asthma allergic asthma emphysema chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or disorder sarcoidosis and bronchitis.

The present invention provides methods for the diagnosis through miRNA biomarker screening screening of candidate therapeutic agents e.g. by measuring the effect of the therapeutic agent on the observed upregulation or down regulation of miRNA expression levels associated with a disease condition treatment of any type of inflammatory disorder or inflammatory disease. Inflammatory disorders are disorders in which an excessive or unregulated inflammatory response leads to excessive inflammatory symptoms including signs of pain heat redness swelling host tissue damage and loss of tissue function. The present invention is of particular use in patients with signs and symptoms of inflammatory disease associated with a specific condition. The present invention is further of particular use in screening for triggers of an inflammatory disease or condition.

Inflammatory disorders may be acute or chronic. Chronic inflammatory disorders are disorders in which an excessive or unregulated inflammatory response prolongs for weeks months years or indefinitely. Chronic inflammatory disorders include chronic inflammatory disorders of the airways bowel connective tissues joints and skin.

Chronic inflammatory airway disorders that may be treated using the present invention include for example asthma e.g. allergic asthma non allergic intrinsic asthma exercise induced asthma nocturnal asthma occupational asthma and steroid resistant asthma exercise induced bronchospasm EIB and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD .

Chronic inflammatory bowel diseases IBD that may addressed screened treated treated using the present invention include for example ulcerative colitis and Crohn s disease.

Chronic inflammatory connective tissue diseases that may be addressed screened treated using the present invention include for example lupus erythematosus scleroderma Sjogren s syndrome poly and dermatomyositis vasculitis and MCTD.

Chronic inflammatory joint diseases that may be screened or treated using the present invention include for example rheumatoid arthritis e.g. polyarthritis juvenile chronic arthritis Still s disease rheumatoid spondylitis lupus erythematosus ankylosing spondylitis psoriatic arthritis and reactive arthritis. One aspect of the present invention provides novel regimens for treating chronic inflammatory joint diseases of the hip including rheumatoid arthritis of the hip bursitis of the hip and osteoarthritis of the hip.

Chronic inflammatory skin diseases that may be screened or treated using the present invention include for example psoriasis diskoid lupus erythematosus scleroderma hives rosacea dermatitis and atopic dermatitis eczema .

The present invention is of particular use in patients with other diseases associated with inflammation including for example spondyloarthropies cardiomyopathy atherosclerosis vasculitis e.g. anti neutrophil cytoplasmic Ab ANCA associated vasculitis including chronic and relapsing ANCA associated vasculitis acute renal disease chronic renal disease glomerulonephritis inflammatory eye disorders e.g. retinitis tuberculosis chronic cholecystitis bronchiectasis Hashimoto s thyroidiitis Silicosis and other pneumoconioses and hyper IgG4 disease. The present invention is also useful in the screening or treatment of inflammatory side effects associated with a pharmaceutical agent wherein the inflammation is not associated with the pharmaceutical agent s desired effect.

The present invention is of particular use in patients with immunologic disease including clinical problems associated with an inappropriate immune response. Immunologic diseases that may be treated using the present invention include autoimmunity transplant rejection graft rejection graft versus host disease and hypersensitivity.

Autoimmunity is a tissue damaging immune response directed specifically and inappropriately against one or more self antigens. Autoimmune diseases that may benefit from treatment using the present invention include for example acute renal disease chronic renal disease pemphigus vulgaris acute anti neutrophil cytoplasmic Ab ANCA associated vasculitis acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ADEM Addison s disease ankylosing spondylitis antiphospholipid Ab syndrome APS aplastic anemia autoimmune hepatitis autoimmune oophoritis coeliac disease Crohn s disease diabetes mellitus type 1 goodpastures s syndrome Grave s disease Lupus erythematosus e.g. systemic lupus erythematosus SLE lupus nephritis and lupus cerebritis and multiple sclerosis.

Hypersensitivity reactions or allergies are exaggerated inappropriate or prolonged immune responses that cause damage to otherwise normal tissue. Allergies that may benefit from treatment with the present invention include for example allergic rhinitis hay fever atopic dermatitis eczema allergic conjunctivitis eosinophilic granuloma septic shock adult respiratory distress syndrome ADSS endotoxic shock and respiratory distress syndrome.

An aspect of the present invention regards the detection classification prevention diagnosis prognosis and treatment of cancer especially lung cancers and breast cancer.

As used herein the terms cancer hyperproliferative and neoplastic refer to cells having the capacity for autonomous growth i.e. an abnormal state or condition characterized by rapidly proliferating cell growth. Hyperproliferative and neoplastic disease states may be categorized as pathologic i.e. characterizing or constituting a disease state or may be categorized as nonpathologic i.e. a deviation from normal but not associated with a disease state. The term is meant to include all types of cancerous growths or oncogenic processes metastatic tissues or malignantly transformed cells tissues or organs irrespective of histopathologic type or stage of invasiveness.

The terms cancer or neoplasms include malignancies of the various organ systems such as affecting lung breast thyroid lymphoid gastrointestinal and genito urinary tract as well as adenocarcinomas which include malignancies such as most colon cancers renal cell carcinoma prostate cancer and or testicular tumours non small cell carcinoma of the lung cancer of the small intestine and cancer of the esophagus.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method to detect classify diagnose and enable a prognosis of cancer. Preferably it is an object of the present invention to provide a method to detect classify diagnose and enable a prognosis of lung cancer or breast cancer. The breast cancer may be any breast cancer specifically any breast cancer selected from the group of luminal A luminal B HER2 overexpressing basal and normal like subtypes of breast cancer.

An embodiment of the present invention regards lung cancer. Lung cancer is the malignant transformation and expansion of lung tissue and is the most lethal of all cancers worldwide responsible for 1.2 million deaths annually. It is caused predominantly by cigarette smoking and predominantly affected men but with increased smoking among women it is now the leading cause of death due to cancer in women. However some people who have never smoked still get lung cancer.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method to detect classify diagnose and enable a prognosis of cancer. Preferably it is an object of the present invention to provide a method to detect classify diagnose and enable a prognosis of lung cancer. The lung cancer may be any lung cancer specifically any lung cancer selected from the group of small cell lung cancer SCLC and non small cell lung cancer NSCLC .

MiRNA oligonucleotide synthesis About 800 miRNAs miRNA mature sequences were obtained from miRBase http microrna.sanger.ac.uk converted to complementary DNA sequence and triplicate the sequences then chemically synthesized also include several positive controls tRNA and negative controls at IDT Integrated DNA Technologies Inc. at 25 nmole scale and diluted at 100 m in 384 well plate format.

Preparation of miRNA oligo Dot blot nylon membrane array GeneScreen Plus Hybridization Transfer Membrane are cut to the size of 95 mm 120 mm. Dilute Oligo in TE to 50 M in a 384 well plates using multiple channel pipetor. Add equal volume of 2 Denature buffer 0.5 N NaOH 1.0 M NaCl to the diluted oligos mix well and denature DNA for 10 minutes at room temperature. Add equal volume of dilution Buffer 0.1 SSC 0.125 N NaOH . Use a 384 pin plate replicator V P Scientific to duplicately spot the miRNA library onto the membranes. Put the membrane into a tray that containing 500 mlo of washing buffer 0.5 N NaCl 0.5 M Tris HCl pH 7.5 to neutralize and wash the membrane. Remove the membrane and place the wet membrane on a piece of wet filter paper. This will prevent the membrane from drying. Fix the DNA to the membrane by UV Autocross linking 1200 uJoulex100 Stratalinker 2400 UV Crosslinker 120V .

MiRNA extraction Total RNA is isolated by standard Trizol guanidinium isothiocyanate acidic phenol method according to manufacturer s instructions.

RNA labeling 10 g of total RNA will be enzymaticaly radiolabeled by poly A polymerase. For two samples of labeling mix the following 10 l of 5 Poly A Polymerase Reaction Buffer 10 g total RNA 50 CiP ATP 1 l of Yeast Poly A Polymerase USB and 1 l of RNasin. Incubate at 37 C. for about 2 to 3 hours.

Hybridization Prehybridized in 3 ml MicroHyb Hybridization Buffer Invitrogen in a hybridization tube at 40 C. for at least 30 min then followed by an overnight hybridization in new hybridization buffer containing the Plabeled RNA probe. Following hybridization membranes were washed twice with 20 ml of 2 SSC 0.5 SDS at 37 C. The second wash was performed once in 20 ml of 1 SSC 0.5 SDS at 37 C. Each for 10 min. Finally the spot signals on the membrane were scanned using the GE Typhon Phosphoimage system and quantified using Image Quant software Molecular Dynamics . After exposure the membranes were stripped with 0.2 SDS at 72 C. for 15 min twice.

Asthma is a chronic inflammatory lung disease that results in partially reversible constriction of the airways. To examine whether miRNAs are involved in this process we first established chronic asthma models using Ova ovalbumin as antigen stimulation. The successful establishment of the chronic asthma model was confirmed by AHR airway hyperreactivity measurements .

MiRNA profiling of chronic asthma mouse model was performed. shows the results. Six female BALB c mice were primed by i.p. injection of 50 g of OVA in PBS plus 100 l of alum 200 l total volume per mouse on days 0 7 and 14. Six control mice were also injected i.p. with PBS plus 100 l of alum 200 l total volume per mouse . OVA alum primed OVA and alum primed control mice were then challenged under light anesthesia isoflurane by intranasal i.n. delivery of 50 g of OVA in PBS 50 l total volume on days 28 and thereafter 3 times every week for one month. AHR airway hyperreactivity were measured by a plethysmograph device and accompanied software Buxco Inc and the average Penhs percentage of above baseline were presented . Dot blot miRNA array was performed and the results are presented in . We synthesized about 800 tri mer oligonucleotides antisense to human and mouse mature miRNAs and control oligos from some tRNAs at IDT Integrated DNA Technologies Inc. . The oligos were spotted in duplicate on GeneScreen Plus NEN membranes with a 384 pin plate replicator V P Scientific . 10 ug of total RNA from normal lung or asthmatic lung were enzymaticaly radiolabeled by poly A polymerase at 37 C. for 2 to 3 hours. The pre and hybridization buffer is MicroHyb Hybridization Buffer Invitrogen . Finally the nylon membrane oligo arrays were used for hybridization with the Plabeled probe at 40 C. overnight. After washing three times the spot signal intensity on the membrane was scanned and quantitated using the Typhoon Phosphor Imager Imaging systems GE Healthcare Life Sciences . Arrows show the miRNAs that change dramatically in asthma and normal tissues. A probe complementary to methonine tRNA tRNAMet was used as a control for normalization. shows a bar graph comparison of selected miRNA expression levels from .

Recent work has mapped let 7 family members to human chromosomal sites implicated in a variety of cancers providing a mechanistic link between let 7 miRNAs and cancer. Let 7f overexpression inhibits growth of a lung cancer cell line in vitro. It is plausible that loss of miRNA control of RAS could also lead to overexpression of RAS and contribute to the conversion of normal BSCs to cancer BSCs. Taken together the data suggests that inflammation and tumorigenesis have something in common in terms of miRNA regulation.

Treg cells develop in the thymus and make up 5 10 of the peripheral na ve CD4 T lymphocyte pool in normal mice and humans. Treg cells are critical for the maintenance of peripheral self tolerance in mice and humans. Increased numbers of CD4 CD25 Treg cells have been found in the peripheral blood and tumor infiltrating lymphocytes of patients with breast cancer and pancreatic cancer. To examine whether miRNAs are involved in the development and regulation of Treg we first isolated CD4 CD25 Treg cells from spleen of wild type C57B mice. Total RNAs were extracted from CD4 CD25 Treg cells and CD4 CD25 T cells Figure A and miRNA array assays were carried out as described above.

Our data shows that the expression levels of several miRNAs are significantly changed underlying inflammation in chronic asthma mouse model. Those miRNAs include two miRNAs let 7f and 143 3p which are altered in lung cancer pathogenesis. Moreover since inflammation is closely related to tumorigenesis we hypothesize that those miRNAs are also changed at the early stage of cancer BSCs which in turns regulates proto oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes in BSCs allowing it to proceed to uncontrolled proliferation.

There is overall agreement that repressive complexes like miRNAs are important to maintain normal stem cell identity. On another hand a general loss of repression decreased expression of miRNA genes accompanies cancer suggesting that loss of repressive miRNAs in normal BSCs may convert normal BCSs into cancer BSCs. To test this hypothesis we will knockdown those miRNAs that have been down regulated in cancer BSCs and see if we can enhance the growth of normal BSCs. Conversely we will overexpress those miRNAs in cancer BSCs and see if we can inhibit the growth of the cancer BSCs. We have identified several miRNAs are significantly down regulated in asthmatic lungs. From the Subaim a we may identify several miRNA that are differentially expressed in normal and cancer BSCs. Those miRNAs may include some miRNA we identified in inflamed lungs. First we will focus on 2 to 3 miRNAs that have been known to be important to lung cancer or other cancers. i.e. let 7f.

Lung cancer has a high morbidity because it is difficult to detect early. At the earliest stage of tumorigenesis the changes may be too subtle to be detected by conventional methods. As stated above miRNA may serve as a fine tuner of gene regulation. In another words miRNA profiling may be sensitive enough to detect the subtle changes at the earliest stage that convert normal stem cell to CSCs which may aquire their specific miRNA expression patterns different from normal stem cells. The specific miRNA thus can be used as a signature of CSCs and an early marker of lung tumorigenesis.

This work allows one to identify miRNA signature for lung CSCs or early markers for lung tumorigenesis. Some will be decreased in lung. CSCs some will be upregulated in lung CSCs however according to published data and our results probably there will be more miRNAs that are decreased in lung CSCs. Some miRNA that are significantly different in the two kinds of cells will be either knocked down or overexpressed in these cells to further characterize their function. These expressing differently in normal and cancerous stem cells may represent as oncogenes and tumor suppressors. Our work also provides a signature for lung early tumorigenesis as well as potential targets for lung cancer interventions. The present methods can be used to determine miRNA markers for lung cancer. In addition the miRNA markers disclosed as useful in the models of inflammation and found to be upregulated or downregulated can be used in the screening methods of lung cancer based upon the linkage discussed above between the inflammation and cancer.

In summary miRNA are short and their number is far less than mRNA genes that they are regulating. Yet each miRNA controls about 200 mRNA genes. The miRNA regulation network serves as a fine tuner to regulate the cell machinery. Any subtle change may lead to a detectable change of miRNA expression pattern. That s why miRNA is so far the best molecular marker for different cell types and different developmental stages. Therefore miRNA will prove a sensitive marker to distinguish CSCs from normal counterpart normal stem cells. In another words miRNA may be used as early marker of tumorigenesis. These markers can be used for the early diagnosis of lung cancer and potential targets for lung cancer treatments.

To investigate the role of miRNAs in the initial molecular events in the pathogenesis of asthma we have profiled miRNA expression in a asthmatic mice and non asthmatic mice b natriuretic peptide receptor 1 Npr1 knockout mice and wild type mice and c Tregs and non Treg CD4 T cells . Dot blot array and real time PCR were used in the profiling3. By comparing the miRNA profiling results from the three groups of experiments a small group of miRNA whose levels are significantly down regulated in asthma but up regulated in Tregs and Npr1 KO mice was identified. These are termed as miRNA regulating asthma miRRAs .

FIGS. miRNA profiling of spleens from asthmatic mice and normal mice. . Groups of female BALB c mice n 6 were primed by OVA alum or alum by i.p. injection of 50 g of VA or adjuvant on days 0 and 14 and challenged i.n. with OVA or PBS on days 28 and 29. AHR airway hyper reactivity was measured by Penh enhanced pause approach. . H E hematoxylin eosin staining of lung sections showing blockade of airway by mucus and massive infiltration of eosinophils and lymphocyte infiltration of peribronchial and perivenular tissue in asthmatic lung compared to that of control. . Sample dot blot miRNA array conducted as described previously. Arrows show the miRNAs that change dramatically in inflamed and normal tissues. A probe complementary to methonine tRNA tRNAMet was used as a control for normalization. . Plots showing comparison ratio of selected miRNA expression levels in normal and inflamed mice from the dot blot array .

FIGS. MiRNA profiling of spleens from Npr1 knockout KO mice and wild type WT C57B 6 mice. Groups of female KO mice and WT mice n 6 were primed by OVA alum by i.p. injection of 50 g of OVA on days 0 and 14 and challenged i.n. with OVA on days 28 and 29. AHR airway hyperreactivity was measured by Penh enhanced pause approach. H E hematoxylin eosin staining of lung sections showing blockade of airway by mucus and massive infiltration of eosinophils in WT lung compared to that of KO. Expression levels of four miRNAs in WT mice relative to that of the corresponding miRNAs in KO mice. Total RNAs 10 g were used for miRNA dot array as described3. Three spleens for each strain were pooled together and total RNAs prepared as described elsewhere. Plots showing comparison of selected miRNA expression levels comparing ratio of miRNAs from KO and WT spleen cells.

FIGS. miRNA profiling in Treg cells. CD4 CD25 and CD4 CD25 T B cells were separated from the mice spleens their RNA isolated and subjected to miRNA dot array as described above. Plots showing comparison of selected miRNA expression levels from B comparing ratio of miRNAs from CD4 CD25 and CD4 CD25 T cells .

FIGS. PCR validation of the dot blot array data. Regular RT PCR and real time quantitative PCR Q PCR C D assay for five miRNAs that are deregulated in asthma mouse model. The pooled total RNAs are prepared from four spleens each for asthmatics and controls. Q PCRs were performed using SYBR green with the same amount of total RNA. Each primer specific to miRNA in combination with the universal reverse primer RTQ U was used for amplification. FIG. top Linear amplification plot of the miRNA Q PCR assay showing robotic exponent amplification of the miRNA replicons and sensitivity over 3 104 times of magnitude. The experiments were conducted in duplicate. FIG. bottom Dissociation curves of all the miRNA amplicons indicating specific amplification of miRNAs. Expression levels of five miRNAs in asthmatic OVA relative to that of the corresponding miRNAs in control PBS . Regular RT PCR Q PCR.

MicroRNAs are highly conserved in evolution from worms to humans. It is believed that most miRNAs are conserved in human and mouse in terms of sequence and function. Usually if a miRNA has same or similar sequence in human and mouse it has same suffix composed of miR number but different prefix hsa for human mmu for mouse e.g. hsa miR 150 and mmu miR 150. The miRRA1 is also found in humans and has the same sequence in mouse and human and may have the same effect in terms of gene regulation. miRRA1 miR 150 miRRA2 miR 690 miRRA3 miR 515 miRRA4 miR 709 miRRA5 miR 142 3p. miRRA1 hsa miR 150 in human and mmu miR 150 in mouse. The sequence is UCUCCCAACCCUUGUACCAGUG.

Because miRRAs are down regulated in asthmatics but upregulated in Tregs and Npr1 KO mice which have anti inflammation properties it is hypothesized that over expression miRRAs may inhibit asthmatic inflammation. Indeed we over expressed miRRA1 in the lungs of mouse model of experimental asthma and found that miRRA1 inhibits lung inflammation and decreases both Th1 and Th2 cytokines that are involved in inflammation . In vitro experiments also show that miRRA1 inhibits cell proliferation and promotes apoptosis two important processes in inflammation .

FIGS. Inhibition of OVA induced lung inflammation by miRRA 1. 25 g of miRRA 1 or control miRNA scrambled plasmid DNA were delivered i.n. into the lung of each sensitized Balb C mouse by using nanoparticle NG042 for three consecutive days before OVA challenge. 24 hr after challenge mice were sacrificed and half of the lung was fixed and subjected to H E staining another half was used for CBA cytokine assay. Lung histological features of mice that were sensitized then treated with vehicle control n 4 top or miRRA 1 n 4 bottom before challenged with OVA n 4 . The infiltrates in the bronchovascular bundles of these animals are illustrated. Original magnification 100. Relative Th1 Th2 cytokine levels of lung homogenates measured by CBA cytokine assay.

FIG. Over expression of miRRA1 affects cell cycle. Over expression of miRRA1 affects the cell cycle of Jurkat cells A and HEK 293 cells B with G2 cell population decreased by about a half.

FIGS. Hsa miRRA1 inhibits cell proliferation. Cell proliferation assay of Jurkat cells infected with lentiviruses of miRRA1 or control miRNA by using the CyQUANT NF Cell Proliferation Assay Kit. About 1 000 6 000 lentivirue infectd cells were plated into 96 wellmicroplate wells 4 hours before assay. The fluorescence intensity of each sample was measured by using a fluorescence microplate reader Synergy HT Multi Detection Microplate Reader from Biotek with excitation at 485 nm and emission detection at 530 nm. Growth cuve assay of HeLa cells stably transfected with the vectors that overexpress miRNA1 or control scramble miRNA. Colony forming assay of A549 cells after transfected with the vectors that overexpress miRNA1 or control scramble miRNA. Hsa miRRA1 increases caspase 3 7 activity in A549 cells induced by staurosporine. A549 cells were plated in 96 well plates and allowed to attach for 10 hours at 37 C. 5 CO2. Apoptosis was induced by treating with various doses of staurosporine for 16 hours at 37 C. 5 CO2. Plates were incubated at room temperature and luminescence was recorded using a Bioteck Microplate Reader. Relative luciferase activity RLU .

To study the underlying molecular mechanism of miRRA1 anti inflammation properties four bioinformatics algorithms were used to predict the most potential targets of miRRA1 some of which were further characterized by Western blot. We found that miRRA1 may directly target ELK1 CBL1 and AKT . These genes are involved in inflammation and cytokine production. Therefore miRRA1 may decrease the protein levels of these genes to suppress inflammation.

FIGS. Hsa miRRA1 repress the expression levels of oncogenes Akt3 and Cb1 and Elk1. . Western blot Density of each band. The figures represent of three individual experiments.

Deregulation of miRNAs especially downregulation of miRNAs thus are involved in the pathogenesis of asthma. miRRA1 may inhibit cell proliferation through promoting apoptosis and arresting cell cycle during the pathogenesis of asthma. miRRA1 may decrease the protein levels of these genes to suppress inflammation and Th1 Th2 cytokine production.

All patent and non patent references cited in the application and in the corresponding provisional applications to which the present application claims priority are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. The corresponding provisional applications are similarly hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

It will be seen that the advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained and since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween. Now that the invention has been described 

