---

title: Information feeds of a social network
abstract: Various embodiments can be configured to provide a social networking computing environment. In an embodiment, a networked computing system can be used to provide informational feeds and commenting functionality to users of a social computing environment. In one embodiment, an enterprise-based social computing system can be configured to provide informational feeds to social networking application users. An informational feed can be populated with events and other information associated with one or more users of interest of an application user, but is not so limited. In one embodiment, a social computing environment can be configured to allow user commenting to feed items or events that are associated with a user or group of users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08145678&OS=08145678&RS=08145678
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08145678
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080829
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or patent disclosure as it appears in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

Computer networks and associated functionality have enabled the implementation of social networking computing environments. The Internet has provided a medium for users to publicly use a social networking application and share information with others. Some of the information may be available to anyone with access to the public social networking application. A user of a public social network may disseminate and receive information regarding other users in the form of a news or event feed. For example a participant can upload a video picture or other data that can be included in an event feed for consumption by other users of the social network. In many public social networking applications the population of an event feed is mostly due to proactive user activity. That is a user has to proactively participate and mutual collaboration may be required to create a public social network including maintaining an event feed with current information.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Various embodiments can be configured to provide a social networking computing environment. In an embodiment a networked computing system can be used to provide informational feeds and commenting functionality to users of a social computing environment. In one embodiment an enterprise based social computing system can be configured to provide informational feeds to social networking application users. An informational feed can be populated with events and other information associated with one or more users of interest of an application user but is not so limited. In one embodiment a social computing environment can be configured to allow user commenting to feed items or events that are associated with a user or group of users.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Various embodiments can be configured to provide a social networking computing environment. In an embodiment a networked computing system can be used to provide informational feeds and commenting functionality to users of a social computing environment. An informational feed can be populated with events and other information associated with one or more users of interest of an application user but is not so limited. Components of the social computing environment can be configured to allow user commenting to feed items or events that are associated with a user or group of users. A comment can be associated with an event of an informational feed.

In one embodiment an enterprise based social computing system can be configured to provide event feeds to social networking application users. For example an enterprise can configure components of an Intranet based computing system to provide event or news feeds that include commenting features to users of the system. The system can include a social networking application which can be used by one or more enterprise users to view and interact with an event feed associated with one or more users of interest. For example a tracking list can be used to track one or more users of interest to identify events for inclusion in a particular event feed. An event feed can include one or more comments made by one or more users of interest or some other user s .

Components of the system can operate to generate an event feed based in part on a user of interest which is in contrast to a system that generates an information feed predominately based on content provided by application users. A user s social network can be expanded when a user who is not presently defined as a user of interest comments on an event of a user who is defined as a user of interest. Moreover a user s social network can be expanded when a user who is presently defined as a user of interest comments on an event of a user who is not defined as a user of interest. A social networking application can be resident on a user device or web based and used to view and interact with person centric information feeds due in part to the event feed being populated with events that are associated with one or more users of interest but is not so limited. For example an enterprise user having proper credentials can access a web based social networking application to view events of an event feed using a computing device that is in communication with an Intranet based computing network.

Events can be generated without the individual whose activity is described by the event having to proactively post event information. Correspondingly components of the system can operate to provide an event feed to a targeted user based in part on one or more users who are associated with the targeted user. For example an application user can selectively identify a number of users to watch or track wherein events associated with the tracked users can be used to populate an event feed for the application user. As another example a group of users may be automatically associated for tracking purposes based in part on a defined project relationship or other association within an enterprise. As an example and in contrast to conventional social networking systems a social network can be automatically created for a user based in part on the user s affiliation with others and or an enterprise in general. For example a system user may be offered a default network that is based on the user s communication history and or organizational context.

In various embodiments users of a social networking system can periodically update view personal and other information associated with computer based social network. A user can also decline to use a social networking system by opting out and not participating in a social network. Application users of an enterprise based social network can be made aware that using an enterprise based social networking application will in some cases imply consent to the collection and posting of information in an event feed. Employees and other users can be informed that an employer may periodically monitor supervise collect and publish personal and other information associated with network activity. A company handbook or other material can be used to provide information to a potential employee current employee or other user regarding the use and data provision capabilities of an enterprise based social networking system including personal and other information.

For example a user can use a device such as handheld computing communication device laptop desktop or other computing communication device system to interact with an interface of a social networking application to view events and other information of an event feed associated with one or more users of interest. Moreover a user can use an interface see example interface of of the social networking application to comment on one or more events of an event feed associated with a user of interest or some other user s .

In an embodiment as part of an informational hierarchy a comment can be made to be subordinate to an event and or comments cannot be made on comments i.e. the comments are not threaded . In accordance with this embodiment events or some transformation thereof are included in an informational feed and comments can be accessed from an associated event. Moreover a user can see all comments of an associated event. For example a number of user comments can be provided for an event for a given day regardless of the user who made an associated comment. In addition to displaying a system generated event feed based in part on information collected from a number of back end systems an interface of the social networking application can be configured to alert or inform an application user of a comment made by a user of interest and or another user of the system. User comments can also be provided via email.

In one embodiment user comments can be provided and or published with events of an associated system generated event feed wherein the system generated event feed can be automatically generated using a number of back end systems as a result of users doing normal work within an organization. Moreover an indicator or other alert can be used to inform an application user of a comment or comments associated with a system generated event or events. For example a user can view an event feed that includes an event that has an associated comment based on certain People and Event settings tailored to the end user. As another example a user can view a system generated event feed that includes an event having an associated comment when someone comments on an event that the user would not normally see e.g. the event is not associated with a designated user of interest . As yet another example a user can view a system generated event feed that includes an event that has an associated comment when another user comments on an event associated with the user.

Components of the networked system can tailor and generate an event feed e.g. one or more event feeds EF EF N to a user device e.g. one or more user devices UD UD N based in part on one or more of an identity relationship and or association of a particular user or group of users of a social network. For example components of the system can operate to generate an event feed that includes one or more user comments that can be viewed by an application user. In one embodiment an event feed can be generated to include person centric events including one or more user comments and associated information that can be interleaved or interspersed with other events of the event feed. In another embodiment events can be displayed in an informational feed wherein information associated with one or more comments can be associated with the one or more events of the informational feed.

Person centric can refer to the aspect of generating an event feed that is based in part on a user identity such as a particular person of interest or an application user for example rather than specific content. As described below components of the system can generate event feeds that can include events and comments associated with one or more users of interest with respect to a target application user. For example a user can tailor an event feed by defining a social network to include certain users of interest. Correspondingly each application user can receive an event feed that is unique and person centric due in part to populating the information stream with events that are associated with one or more users of interest.

With continuing reference to the system includes a collector component that can operate to collect or aggregate information from a plurality of systems devices and or information resources collectively referred to as information sources . For example the collector component that can operate to collect information from a number of back end systems associated with an enterprise. In one embodiment the framework of the collector component can include a series of plug ins one for each back end system that operates to retrieve events and other information from the information sources e.g. SHAREPOINT COMMUNICATOR OUTLOOK ACTIVE DIRECTORY and or other information technology IT systems .

As described above the collected information can be used to generate an event feed for an application user based in part on one or more users of interest. In one embodiment the social networking application can include a tracking component that can operate to track one or more identified users of interest. For example an application user can add another user as a user of interest wherein the user of interest information can be used by the tracking component to identify one or more users of interest as part of generating events of an associated event feed. As one example a directory structure and associated computing resources can be used to manage and maintain data that tracks certain enterprise users as persons of interest. The social networking application also includes a filter component . The filter component can be used to filter the collected information based in part on an identity of the application user one or more of the users of interest and or others when generating an event feed for the application user.

As shown in and according to an embodiment the social networking application can be configured with a comment component . The comment component can be used by an application user to comment on one or more events of an event feed. Comments can also by collected by the collector component when collecting information for an event feed. For example the filter component can operate to filter comments for inclusion in a particular event feed based in part on the identity of an application user commenting user and or one or more of the users of interest. In one embodiment a user comment can be included as an event in an event feed of a user of interest who is associated with a commenting user. Correspondingly a user comment can be added as an event to an event feed. In some instances comments can be stored in a dedicated system or central repository for further collection filtering and or dissemination.

As in the example described above an enterprise user s social network can be defined to include one or more users of interest including one or more commenting users associated with a user of interest. As an example an application user s social network can be defined by default and or modified upon becoming associated with the enterprise. An application user s social network can also be custom built and further refined by the application user or another enterprise user or affiliate. Moreover a user s social network can be automatically expanded when another user who is not currently defined as a user of interest makes a comment to an event associated with a defined user of interest. Accordingly components of the system can operate to generate an event feed that is populated with events that are associated with users of a particular social network.

As an example components of can be implemented to provide an enterprise based social network to enterprise users associated with a corporation or other organization e.g. users using user devices UD UD N . An enterprise based computing system can include an Intranet based architecture that can be protected from all or a portion of a public network e.g. the Internet by using trust or other barrier s such as one or more firewalls and other protective measures. Enterprise users e.g. employees and or other trusted users are associated with the enterprise and engage in enterprise activities. Components of the system can operate to collect and filter information e.g. user events associated with one or more enterprise users including information associated with a task announcement assignment a comment and or other operation within the enterprise. For example information associated with an employee promotion an employee anniversary employee comment a completed project or milestone posted information etc. can be collected from one or more back end systems and used in part to generate one or more events for one or more event feeds.

The social networking application can be used by an enterprise user to view and interact with an event feed that includes events associated with one or more users of interest. The social networking application can be configured as a web based application or as an application program residing on a user s computing device. As described above the social networking application can operate to provide an event feed to an associated user. The social networking application may be described as being somewhat asymmetric based in part on the nature of collecting information from enterprise users and providing of filtered information to application users.

Information for an event feed can be collected from one or more back end or other systems without a user having to proactively supply information using the social networking application . The information can be associated with one or more of the application users tracking users and or some other user s . For example an application user can also be a user of interest for another application user. Certain users can also be added to a social network within the enterprise based in part on a user comment. The social networking application can be used to generate an event feed for the application or tracking user based in part on an identity of the tracking user and or one or more users of interest.

An event feed can include events associated with a topic user of interest application user or some other enterprise aspect. Such events might include anything that a participant might find interesting. Example events may include that a tracked user added a new picture to a profile made a blog or travel entry stepped out for a meeting and returns at some designated time has a birthday on such and such data received a promotion finished a task commented on an event etc. Upon joining an enterprise an application user can register with a social networking system and receive a tailored event feed associated with one or more users of interest but is not so limited. Components of the system can track and maintain users of interest for an associated application user. In one embodiment for each application user the components of the system can operate to categorize one or more users of interest into group based categories where the event types for each group can differ depending in part on the particular group and or group members.

In certain embodiments other users e.g. trusted users who may not be part of the enterprise are allowed to use aspects of the system including interacting within a social network. The information regarding a user of interest may be richer if the user of interest is a member of the enterprise and engages in enterprise processes. However when users internal and external to the enterprise are within a common sphere of trust the conveyance of information regarding activities engaged in within that sphere of trust may be much richer and shared with greater confidence. Correspondingly the social networking application can serve as an information broker that provides a centralized point where application users can obtain information regarding other users associated with an enterprise.

At User B adds user A and User C as users of interest. For example User B can use an interface of a social networking application to identify Users A and C as users of interest by adding Users A and C to User B s tracking list. At User C adds user B as a user of interest. For example User C can use an interface of a social networking application to identify User B as a user of interest by adding User B to User C s tracking list. While a number of users are described in other numbers of users can be included.

At User A uses the interface of the social networking application to view events associated with User B since User B has been defined as a user of interest for User A. For example the filter component of can be used to filter events associated with User B included in the collected information from the collector component as part of providing the event feed to User A. At User B uses the interface of the social networking application to view events associated with Users A and C since Users A and C have been defined as a users of interest for User B. At User C uses the interface of the social networking application to view events associated with User B since User B has been defined as a user of interest for User C.

At User B uses a commenting interface of the social networking application to comment on an event associated with User A. For example a comment window see can be used by the application user to comment on an event of an event feed. At User A receives and or sees the comment associated with User A s event which was provided by User B. User A receives and or sees User B s comment since the comment is associated with User A and User B has been defined as a user of interest for User A. For example User A can receive an email or view a comment indicator which informs User A of User B s comment. As described above User B s comment can also be added as an event to be included in User A s event feed.

At User B sees the event associated with User A along with User B s comment in User B s event feed. At User C sees User B comment and the original event associated with User A that was commented on by User B in User C s event feed. User C sees the event associated with User A even though User A has not been designated as a user of interest for User C since User B has made a comment and User B has been designated as a user of interest of User C. In one embodiment a user can automatically be associated with another user as a user of interest when a current user of interest makes a comment to an event associated with a targeted user. For example User A can automatically be added to User C s tracking list and or User C can automatically be added to User A s tracking list when User B comments on an event associated with User A since User A and User C have been previously designated as users of interest for User B.

At User C uses a commenting interface of the social networking application to comment on the original event associated with User A and or User B s comment. In one embodiment before making a comment User C can also add User A as a user of interest. In another embodiment User A can be automatically added to a tracking list as a user of interest for User C based in part on the user of interest association of User A in relation to User B and or User B in relation to User C. For example User C can add User A to the tracking list upon seeing the original event and or User B comment associated with User A.

At User A receives and or sees User C s comment since the comment is directed to an event associated with User A. Moreover User A receives and or sees User C s comment due in part to the fact that the comment is based on a comment made by User B to the original event associated with User A and User B has been defined as a user of interest for User A. For example User A can receive an email and or view a comment indicator which informs User A of User C s comment. User C s comment can also be added as an event to be included in User A s event feed. Accordingly User A s social network can now be expanded to include User C as a user of interest and can be used to provide events associated with User C in User A s event feed.

At User B receives and or sees User C s comment. User B receives and or sees User C s comment since User B is a user of interest for User C. User C s comment is also based on a comment made by User B to the original event associated with User A and or User B has been defined as a user of interest for User C. Thereafter at User C receives and or sees comments provided by User A and or User B since User A and User B are included as users of interest for User C. For example events including comments associated with User A and or User B can be included in User C s event feed. User C can also receive and or see comments and or events associated with other commenting users who make comments to events associated with one or more of User C s users of interest. Other combinations and permutations of operations can be included as well as an order and number of operations and associated users. For example operations can be selectively added removed rearranged etc. according to a desired implementation. Accordingly other embodiments are available.

The exemplary user interface depicts pictures or other representations that represent users of interest who are categorized by group. In this example the groups are Friends at Work Co workers and Other Users of Interest. The pictures or other representations of Friends at Work are depicted in section of the user interface . The pictures of Co workers are depicted in section of the user interface . The pictures of Other People of Interest are depicted in section of the user interface . Aspects of the user interface can be tailored to differentiate one group from another. For example font and icon sizes can be varied to distinguish one group from another emphasize an estimation of an importance factor for an event feed associated with a user of interest or for some group.

In order to change a user of interest from one group to another the picture or other representation for that individual may simply be dragged and dropped into another group. Upon selection of the Done control a user relations management component can be updated causing a change to characteristics of an event feed provided to the application user . The remove control may be used to remove a user of interest from a group. A picture of a topic individual can be dragged and dropped onto the remove control . The application user can use the add a person control to select an individual from a group of available individuals. The application user can also use the add a person control to view suggested additions to one or more of the groups.

As described briefly above comments can be made to events associated with one or more users of interest. For example comments can be related to an announcement event that is published in a user s event feed. In one embodiment a commenting user can be added to a user of interest tracking list if the comment is for an event associated with a user of interest currently included in the tracking list. The addition of comments can complicate the presentation of an event feed due in part to the association or disassociation of a commenting user and the time and date that a comment is posted or added.

4 Person A see person B s birthday event in an associated event feed and makes a comment on the person B s event.

5 Person C would not normally see person s B birthday event since person B is not currently designated as a user of interest for person C. However since person C is watching or tracking person A person C sees person A s comment along with person B s original event.

Accordingly person C s personal social network can be expanded to include person B. Moreover person C s event feed can now be populated include events associated with person B. That is an application user s social network can be expanded by seeing people and events that others find interesting as well. While one example is illustrated above other example scenarios can include other variations. For example an event can be published associated with person B creating a new blog within the enterprise etc.

In one embodiment an application user will see a comment under one or more of the following circumstances 

3 if a user of interest e.g. on a tracking list of the application user makes a comment along with the original event this feature can be disabled .

Another aspect of commenting in a social network includes when a comment occurs. Since comments can be made on subsequent days from an original event more than one view can be included for an associated event feed. For example if a comment happened on the same day as the event an icon or other identifier can be displayed with the event to inform the application user of the number of comments see the event text of . However if a comment happens on a different day the application can operate to change the wording of the event to highlight the associated comment see the event text of .

Another aspect of commenting in a social network includes the creation and communication of email alerts to application users when a comment is made. For example a user may only be emailed a limited number of times e.g. once within a given time period e.g. one day to prevent email overloading. In one embodiment an email is created and communicated for a first comment made to an event for a particular day. The email feature can be used to determine if a user would be accepting of receiving email alerts associated with received comments. As one result additional users can be drawn into a social network.

The following description corresponds to aspects of an exemplary social networking application that includes functionality to provide an event feed to users of a social computing network. For example features of the schema of can be used to tailor and provide one or more event feeds including one or more user comments to associated computing users of a social computing network. The following description can be used to provide commenting functionality for implementation in a social computing network such as an enterprise based computing network for example. In one embodiment a user s social network can be enlarged by including commenting users and or potential users of interest associated with a comment.

The description below describes an exemplary main stored procedure that can be used to retrieve comments and events based one or more generation rules. For example attributes of the schema of can be selectively used to retrieve comments and events from a collection of information as part of providing an event feed to an application user.

The description below describes exemplary instructions that can be used to provide a serializable form of a comment. Serializeable can be defined as an attribute of an object class. For example members of a certain object class can be serialized into well defined strings of bits e.g. for storing and transmitting and deserialized for reconstructing the information in memory.

The description below describes exemplary instructions that can be used to compress comments by associated events and or users of interest when the comment and associated event occur on different days or within a defined amount of time. Compression techniques can be used to reduce an the amount of screen real estate required to present items that can be grouped together. For example multiple comments on the same event can be shown at the highest level as an icon with the number of comments where the user can click on the icon to see the detailed comment text and or each comment. In one embodiment the time zone of the user who is viewing a feed is used to present comments and other feed information.

The description below describes exemplary instructions that can be as a web service to add a comment based in part on an event associated with a user of interest.

As shown in the data collection component includes a collector . While one collector is shown the system can include additional collectors and other components. Each collector can include one or more adaptors depending in part upon current and future enterprise components and or functionality. The collector provides an execution and control environment for providing information as needed based in part on the use various adaptors . The collector can be configured to control one or more of the adaptors such as by controlling start restart stop and or other operations for example when collecting information from the information systems .

The information systems can include a variety of different types of information and other data and are not limited to a type of information system. However a number of example information sources are described below. One example information system may correspond to an administrative human resource system. Such a system may include when an individual was hired wherein an associated adaptor can use the associated information to determine whether or not a hiring anniversary is approaching or occurring. As further example the example system may also track birthdays for enterprise users when there is a status change e.g. promotion or other title change and or information regarding the placement a user within the organizational context or structure of an enterprise.

Another example information system may correspond to an enterprise directory and general attribute repository system such as ACTIVE DIRECTORY for example. Such a system may also include titles office numbers organization context etc. of various enterprise users. Yet another example information system may correspond with a user profile site into which an enterprise user can enter personal and other information. An enterprise user can use a profile site to include various personalized attributes e.g. special interests share files upload photographs etc.

Another example information system may provide instant messaging functionality that can be used to provide a status indicator to indicate information regarding certain enterprise users. The functionality can be used by an enterprise user regarding availability e.g. I will be at a client until 4 30 pm. then working from home thereafter and other instant messaging operations. Other exemplary information systems may correspond to enterprise calendar systems such as EXCHANGE document management systems financial systems etc. The types and number of information systems has no limit and may include information systems that are now existing or yet to be developed. A new or updated information system may be incorporated into the system by implementing an appropriate adaptor.

One or more of the adaptors can be configured to extract events regarding users of interest from a distinct type of information system also referred to herein as an information source . For the enterprise example as an individual engages in normal enterprise activity information can be gathered from the user and various enterprise systems and used to generate an event feed for a targeted user. Based on the trends in computing advances information may be rarely accumulated in any single information system of any single type. An enterprise may require multiple systems to maintain accumulated information regarding enterprise users in various information systems.

In various embodiments and as described further below one or more adaptors can be further configured to improve timeliness in delivering fresh events to application users. For example one or more processing threads processors and or processes can be used in association with one or more adaptors to provide information from one or more information sources to users of a social computing network. Adaptors can be used to extract events and other information from various types of information systems. In one embodiment each adaptor can be configured to extract events and other information from a particular type of information system. For example adaptor can be configured to extract events regarding enterprise users from information system which is a particular type of information system. Adaptor can be configured to extract events regarding enterprise users from information system and so forth for the remainder of adaptors and information systems .

The system can also include other adaptors that can be configured to extract events from other information systems. Certain adaptors can be of different types having different functionalities while other adaptors can be configured with similar or duplicate functionalities. For example instantiating multiple adaptors for the same information system type can be helpful to obtain events in a timely manner and or to obtain events for distributed information systems.

As one example one or more of the adaptors can configured as a plug in component having a pre constructed framework of adaptive functionality to facilitate effective authoring and generation of additional or reconfigured adaptors for new and or current information technology systems and uses. For instance each of the adaptors can include a framework that incorporates a number of common services and associated functionality. Exemplary common services can include 1 the procedures for connecting with an events pool and placing an event into an events pool a procedures for discovering an identity of a user of interest for which events are desired 3 logging functionality 4 an application programming interface API with the collector so that collector can control an adaptor 5 state persistence 6 other standard interactions with the system etc. Continuing with the example each of the adaptors can be further configured to include functions . The functions include logic used to determine types of queries to be made to various information systems which includes knowledge of an appropriate API to use to properly interface with the corresponding information system but are not so limited.

Although one collector is shown in it may be advantageous in some circumstances to have more than one collector. For instance a plurality of collectors having one or more associated adaptors may be selectively or collectively used to extract events and other information from the various information systems in a timelier manner. Also multiple collectors may be used to accommodate various network topologies and expanded geographical distributions. Configuration data can be used to direct the collector while operating. For example the collector can use the configuration data to cause one or more of the adaptors to start and stop at appropriate times.

Moreover the configuration data can be used to define which of the adaptors that the collector can instantiate and support. Accordingly each of the adaptors can be configured to respond to collecting instructions to gather events. The configuration data can also be used to define when one or more of the adaptors are to be used. As an example the configuration data can be used to control adaptors at periodic time intervals wherein the time intervals can differ depending on an associated information system.

In an embodiment as one or more of the adaptors retrieve events the retrieved events are communicated to the events pool . For example the events pool can include one or more database systems. As shown in the exemplary system of the events pool includes a number of disparate events represented by a number of symbols corresponding to an event type. While a limited number of events are shown in events pool the events pool can include an enormous amount of data including thousands millions or more of such events.

Events can be categorized into a number of types that makes logical sense or which can be suitable in defining granularity for a particular event feed. As illustrated in the example system events represented by the triangle are of a first type events represented by the square are of a second type e.g. two events having the second event type events represented by the circle are of a third type e.g. two events having the third event type events represented by the parallelogram are of a fourth type etc.

In one embodiment the schema of can be used to control aspects of a social computing experience. For example schema can be used to implement event types that include but are not limited to comments a hiring anniversary a birthday blog entries title changes manager changes profile changes etc. The schema can also be used to identify an application user who is associated with an event comment and or a time of an event comment etc. The time can be used for sorting and or presenting events and comments. The schema can also be used to provide customizations appropriate to a specific type of event. For example the customization functionality can be used for a manager change event to provide the name of a manager a title of the manager etc. As another example the customization functionality can be used for a document change event to identify an associated document location author s describe the nature of a change etc.

With continuing reference to the event feed component can operate to extract events from the events pool in order to provide an event feed for an application user based in part on one or more associated users of interest. The event feed component uses the events pool in order to populate an event feed for viewing and further interaction by a user using the interface . Accordingly if users of interest were to change for a particular user and or if the type of event to be included in the event feed were to change the change can be quickly presented in the associated event feed. All or a large percentage of events associated with users can be included in the events pool . Accordingly fewer processing resources may be required to populate the events pool enabling a greater number of processing resources to be used for extracting events for a particular event feed of an application user. Accordingly application users may quickly see how a filtering change would change the event feed and may thus quickly refine the filtering configuration for presenting an event feed and other information.

The event feed component includes an event feeder that can operate to perform a number of functions as part of providing an event feed. In one embodiment the event feeder can operate to determine one or more users of interest that are associated with an application user or some other user e.g. a commenting user determine whether certain commenting functionality is enabled determine event types for an application user based in part on associated users of interest etc. For example the event feeder can use a tracking list to identify users of interest when generating an event feed for a particular application user.

The event feeder includes an event filtering and rules management component and a user relation management component but is not so limited. The event filtering and rules management can be used to identify certain event types to be included in certain event feeds users or groups of users according to a desired implementation. For example the event filtering and rules management component can be used to generate an event feed that includes events associated with certain users of interest and or group of users of interest based in part on a defined tracking list.

The user relation management component can be used to designate one or more users of interest for a group associated with a particular application user. The user relation management component can optionally construct a default user relation for a given application user. For example the user relation management component can operate to consult information systems that the adaptors extract events and other information from. As an example of formulating a default membership in the group of a user the user relation management component can use directly or indirectly one or more enterprise information systems and selecting one or more users to be included within a particular group based in part on the accessed information.

As an example the user relation management component can operate to examine one or more information systems to identify an organizational context for an enterprise user. The user relation management component can operate to automatically add any enterprise users that work in the same technical group to a user s co workers group. The user relation management component can also operate to examine a communication history e.g. e mail instant messaging texting voicemail etc. to see who a particular user has been communicating with. The user relation management component may automatically add any identified user s to a user s friends at work or some other group.

A formulation of a default network as described above for an enterprise differs substantially from many current social networking models that requires mutual collaboration in order for an individual to be added to a user s social network. Conventionally in order to add an individual to a friends network an invitation is first sent by the participant and the recipient then accepts the invitation. They are then both mutually added to each other s network. Aspects of the foregoing enterprise based social network differ in other ways. For example a user of interest can be added to an application user s social network without the application user being added to the user of interest s social network. As further example the application user has an option of categorizing a user of interest in more than one group. As yet another example a commenting user can be automatically added to an application user s social network when a comment is made to an event associated with the application user.

The user relation management component can operate to adjust a user relation for an application user when the application user removes or adds a user of interest to a particular group. Such operations can be performed without requiring the user of interest to proactively accept an invitation to join the group. The application user can also use the interface to view and modify user relations track users of interest create and post comments etc.

The user relation management component can be used to suggest changes in user relations for a particular user. Based in part on a particular detection or circumstance the user may be suggestively prompted to complete some operation. For example the user relation management component can be used to detect that a user is communicating more frequently with a particular associate. Thereafter a user can be asked to add the particular associated to a friends at work or other group. Or upon identifying a title change the user can be suggestively prompted to add others within a new organizational context to a co workers group etc. In one embodiment the user relation management component can operate to impose policy rules regarding user relations. For example the user relation management component may deny a request to add a particular user to a particular group based in part on a defined rule of association. Or perhaps a particular user has expressed an interest in keeping a birthday private and not to be shared.

As a grouping example a particular group of users can be defined to receive events of a certain event type e.g. birthday events hiring anniversary events etc. . Another group of users can receive events having a different subset of event types. Accordingly an event feed can be tailored to include event types based in part on a defined group. In one embodiment if a user is included in more than one group the superset of all the event types for any group can be used to generate events of an event feed. For example suppose a first group corresponds to event types A B and C and second group corresponds to event types C D and E. Events associated with a user of interest can be reported regarding event types A B C D and E for a tracking user since the user of interest is associated with the first and second groups. The user relation management component can make adjustments to event types and associated groups regarding a particular enterprise user. Accordingly components of the system can be used to provide a tailored event feed to a user.

The following description describes examples of providing an event feed using components of the system . For example the event feeder can be used to provide an event feed using events in the events pool . Events can be tracked regarding a particular application user by identifying one or more users of interest event types event times etc. For example the event feeder may monitor user comments within the events pool for comments that correspond to a user of interest as part of providing the event feed. Moreover group memberships for multiple groups for a user can be monitored such as by using the user relation management component for example. The event feeder can determine which events and or event types are to be fed to a user according to a particular group or groups.

As another example in providing an event feed to an application user the event feeder can operate to retrieve an event from the events pool wherein the event is associated with a user of interest. In one embodiment an event includes a user comment to an event associated with some user of interest. As part of the process user relation management component can be used to determine whether a user of interest is within a given group for a particular user. In making such a determination the user relation management component can identify specific groups of the application user and whether a user of interest belongs to a particular group associated with the application user. If the user is not included in a group or a tracking list the event will not be included within the event feed.

If the user of interest is included in at least one of the groups an event type of an event corresponding to the group is identified. For example assume that a group corresponds to event types A B and C. If the event is of a different type it will not be included in the event feed. However if the event is of one of event type A B or C the event will be included in the event feed. There may be a particular format in which to present the event in the event feed. The event feeder can extract a copy or some select portion of an event from the events pool for presentation in a desired format according to preferences of the application user or some default application settings.

In various embodiments a networked computing environment for establishing a social network can include a topology of servers clients devices communication media and or other networking functionality. A networked computing environment can include a static or dynamic topology a secure network such as an enterprise network an unsecure or partially unsecure network such as with features of a wireless open network the Internet and or some other network or combination of networks. By way of example and not limitation the networked computing environment can include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and or wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and or other wireless media. Many other configurations of computing devices applications data sources data distribution systems etc. can be employed to implement browsing and other functionality. Moreover exemplary systems and configuration are included for illustrative purposes and embodiments are not limited to the example applications modules devices systems processes etc. described herein.

In various embodiments components can be implemented as part of networked distributed and or other computer implemented and communication environments. Accordingly components can be employed in a variety of computing communication environments. For example the system can used with devices systems having networking security and other communication components configured to provide communication functionality with other computing and or communication devices. Moreover the social networking functionality described herein can be used in conjunction with a desktop computer laptop smart phone personal data assistant PDA ultra mobile personal computer and or other computing or communication devices to provide an event feed associated with a social network.

While communication computing architectures have been described herein functionality of various components can be also combined or further divided. For example in the collector component can be configured to include filtering functionality of the filter component and or tracking functionality of the tracking component. Furthermore various embodiments described herein can be used with a number of applications systems and other devices and are not limited to any particular implementation or architecture. Certain components and functionalities can also be implemented in hardware and or software. While certain embodiments include software implementations they are not so limited and also encompass hardware or mixed hardware software solutions. Also while certain functionality has been described herein the embodiments are not so limited and can include more or different features and or other functionality. Accordingly the embodiments and examples described herein are not intended to be limiting and other embodiments are available.

Referring now to the following discussion is intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which embodiments of the invention may be implemented. While the invention will be described in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with program modules that run on an operating system on a personal computer those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention may also be implemented in combination with other types of computer systems and program modules.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations including handheld devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Referring now to an illustrative operating environment for embodiments of the invention will be described. As shown in computing device comprises a general purpose desktop laptop handheld tablet or other type of computer capable of executing one or more application programs. The computing device includes at least one central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a textual store and a system bus that couples the memory to the CPU . A basic input output system containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup is stored in the ROM .

The computing device further includes a mass storage device for storing an operating system application programs and or other program modules. The mass storage device is connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not shown connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the computing device . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed or utilized by the computing device .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device .

According to various embodiments the computing device may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through a network such as a local network the Internet etc. for example. The computing device may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . It should be appreciated that the network interface unit may also be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computing systems. The computing device may also include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of input types including a keyboard mouse keypad pen stylus finger speech based and or other means. Other input means are available including combinations of various input means. Similarly an input output controller may provide output to a display a printer or other type of output device. Additionally a touch screen or other digitized device can serve as an input and an output mechanism.

As mentioned briefly above a number of program modules and data files may be stored in the mass storage device and RAM of the computing device including an operating system suitable for controlling the operation of a networked personal computing device such as the WINDOWS operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION of Redmond Wash. for example. The mass storage device and RAM may also store one or more program modules. The mass storage device or other storage and the RAM may store other application programs or modules including a social networking application .

It should be appreciated that various embodiments of the present invention can be implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance requirements of a computing system implementing the invention. Accordingly logical operations including related algorithms can be referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. It will be recognized by one skilled in the art that these operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software firmware special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof without deviating from the spirit and scope of the present invention as recited within the claims set forth herein.

Although the invention has been described in connection with various exemplary embodiments those of ordinary skill in the art will understand that many modifications can be made thereto within the scope of the claims that follow. Accordingly it is not intended that the scope of the invention in any way be limited by the above description but instead be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow.

