---

title: Atomic deposit transaction
abstract: A user may generate a digital image of a negotiable instrument such as a check. The digital image may be transmitted to an institution in a digital image file for deposit of the check. After the user selects to submit the digital image file, the digital image file may be sent from a user computing device to the institution. The user computing device may be decoupled from the transaction once the submission of the digital image file for deposit of the check is made. The transaction is thereafter managed by the institution. Incomplete transactions are avoided by moving the transaction processing to the server side at the institution after the user submits the digital image file. This may be referred to as an atomic deposit transaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07974899&OS=07974899&RS=07974899
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 07974899
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080930
---
This application is related by subject matter to that disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications the entirety of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 242 063 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 242 152 each filed on Sep. 30 2008 and each entitled Atomic Deposit Transaction. 

Currently a user may electronically deposit a check in a financial services institution using scanning and imaging techniques. Conventionally the user uploads an image of the check to the financial services institution where it gets stored in storage. An advisory is sent to the user from the financial services institution confirming that the image was uploaded successfully. The user responds to the advisory which in turn activates an image processing servlet at the financial services institution which processes the image to deposit the check into an account specified by the user.

However if the user drops off from the transaction after they submit the image for upload but before responding to the advisory that the image was uploaded successfully the image processing servlet does not get executed and thus the deposit is not performed. The user may drop off from transaction for a variety of reasons such as due to a lost connection moving to another web page if electronically depositing via a website of the financial services institution etc.

Thus incomplete deposit transactions via a web page may occur if the user navigates away from the web page too quickly after clicking a submit button where the user is submitting an image of a check for electronic deposit to a financial services institution via a web page of the financial services institution . An incomplete transaction may occur because transaction processing may still require client side processing involving the user. Additionally the user may not know that the deposit was not completed.

A user may generate a digital image of a negotiable instrument such as a check. The digital image may be transmitted to an institution in a digital image file for deposit of the check. After the user selects to submit the digital image file the digital image file may be sent from a user computing device to the institution. The user computing device may be decoupled from the transaction once the submission of the digital image file for deposit of the check is made. The transaction is thereafter managed by the institution. Incomplete transactions are avoided by moving the transaction processing to the server side at the institution after the user submits the digital image file.

In an implementation the digital image file may be provided from the user computing device to the institution via a website associated with the institution.

In an implementation the user may be provided with access to the institution e.g. via a link to a website to view transaction details.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The user may be an individual or entity who owns an account that may be held at the institution . The account may be any type of account for depositing funds such as a savings account a checking account a brokerage account and the like. Although only one account is shown it is contemplated that the user may have any number of accounts held at the institution . The user may deposit a check in the account at the institution either electronically or physically. The institution may process and or clear the check .

The user may communicate with the institution by way of a communications network such as an intranet the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a public switched telephone network PSTN a cellular network a voice over Internet protocol VoIP network and the like. The user may also communicate with the institution by phone email instant messaging text messaging facsimile postal mail and the like.

As described further herein the user may electronically deposit the check at the institution . It is noted that although examples and implementations described herein may refer to a check the techniques and systems described herein are contemplated for and may be used for deposit of any negotiable instrument such as a money order a cashier s check a check guaranteed by a bank or the like.

The user may access the institution by opening a communication pathway via the communications network using a user computing device . There may be several ways in which the communication pathway may be established including but not limited to an Internet connection via a website of the institution . The user may access the website and log into the website using credentials such as but not limited to a username and a password.

The user may use a scanner to generate a digital image also referred to herein as an image of the check . The digital image may be used to create a digital image file that may be sent to the institution and used by the institution to process a deposit of the check . In an implementation the digital image file may be augmented by secondary data which may be information relating to the deposit of the check such as an account number and a deposit amount for example.

For example after endorsing the check the user may use a device such as the scanner and or the user computing device for example to convert the check into a digital image file also referred to herein as an image file by making a digital image of the front side and or back side of the check and storing the digital image s in a digital image file . In an implementation the scanner may take an image of the front of the check . Alternatively the scanner may take an image of both the front and the back of the check . The back of the check may provide endorsement verification such as the signature of the person or party the check is made out to. This may also include stamps such as checks received at a merchant.

The digital image s of the check may be transmitted to the institution in the digital image file . In an implementation the user may access a website associated with the institution and choose to submit the digital image file . After the user selects to submit the digital image file the digital image file may be streamed or otherwise provided from the user computing device to the institution e.g. using an image upload component at the user computing device streaming to a servlet at the institution .

The user computing device may be decoupled from the transaction once the submission of the digital image file for deposit of the check is made. The transaction is thereafter managed by the institution . Incomplete transactions are avoided by moving the transaction processing to the server side at the institution after the user submits the digital image file . This may be referred to as an atomic deposit transaction. Any loss or severing of a communications connection between the user computing device and the institution such as due to browser navigation away from a web page or website of the institution communication failures user logouts etc. on the user side will not affect the processing and the deposit of the check in the digital image file . Thus the transaction will not be left in an orphaned state.

The user may send the digital image file and any secondary data to the institution along with a request to deposit the check into an account such as the account . The institution may process the deposit request according to the digital image file and any secondary data.

Any image processing technology may be used to retrieve the digital image s of the check from the digital image file . Upon receipt and processing of the digital image file and approval of the information pertaining to the check the institution may credit the funds of the check to the account .

The user may be provided with a link e.g. in an email on a website etc. that allows the user to view past transactions. In this manner the user may determine if the transaction was successful e.g. whether the digital image file was successfully received and processed at the institution whether the check was processed and funds were deposited in the account etc. . Additionally the institution may provide status information and or confirmation of the success of the transaction to the user via email facsimile instant messaging text messaging phone mail etc.

Any technique for sending the digital image file to the institution may be used such as providing the digital image file from storage to a website associated with the institution . In an implementation the user may attach the digital image file to an email and send the digital image file to the institution using the same device used to make the digital image s of the check or another computing device.

The user computing device may be integral with the device used to make the digital image s and or the digital image file or separate from the device used to make the digital image s and or the digital image file . An example user computing device is described with respect to . It is contemplated that any device that is capable of generating a digital image may be used to make one or more digital images of the check which may be sent to the institution as a digital image file . Additional devices that may be used in the generation and or transmission of a digital image file include a digital camera a photocopier a fax machine and the like for example.

The institution may receive the digital image file representing the check and may use any known image processing software or other application s to obtain the relevant data of the check from the digital image file . The institution may determine whether the financial information associated with the check may be valid.

For example the institution may include any combination of systems and sub systems such as electronic devices including but not limited to computers servers databases or the like. The electronic devices may include any combination of hardware components such as processors databases storage drives registers cache random access memory RAM chips data buses or the like and or software components such as operating systems database management applications or the like. According to an embodiment the electronic devices may include a network based server that may process the financial information and may receive the digital image file from the user .

The electronic devices may receive the digital image file and may perform an analysis on the quality of the image s of the check in the digital image file the readability of the data contained therein or the like. For example the electronic devices may determine whether the image s may be retrieved and combined and whether the amount payable and other information may be readable such that it may be obtained and processed by the institution to credit the account associated with the user .

The institution in an implementation after receiving the digital image s of the check from the user may use a clearinghouse to perform the check clearing operations. Check clearing operations are used by banks to do the final settlement of the check such as removing funds from the account of the payor and transferring those funds to the user s bank.

In an implementation the institution system may use the image receiver to receive the digital image file of a negotiable instrument such as the check from the user . The image receiver may receive the digital image file via streaming or other communications techniques.

In an implementation the image processor may receive the digital image file from the image receiver or storage and may process the digital image file in the processing and or clearing of the check . The image processor may process multiple digital images if the digital image file comprises multiple digital images. For example after receiving the digital image file of the check the image processor may retrieve the image s of the check using any known image processing software or other application s to obtain any relevant data of the check from the digital image file .

The image processor has access to data files and documents pertaining to the user as well as any other data files and documents that are internal or external to the institution system that may be useful in processing the digital image file and or the data contained therein.

The institution system has the ability to retrieve information from one or more data sources via the data source access engine . Data pertaining to the user and or the user account and or processing and clearing of the check may be retrieved from data source s and or external data sources. The retrieved data may be stored centrally perhaps in storage . Other information may be provided to the institution system from the user and or the representative .

Data source s may contain data metadata email files and or documents that the institution system maintains pertaining to the user such as personal data such as name physical address email address etc. and financial data such as credit card numbers and checking account numbers. Such data may be useful for processing the digital image file as described herein. Additionally or alternatively the institution system may access this information when processing or clearing the check .

The representative computing device may provide access to a system which is coupled to the institution system . A system may be configured to format and transmit a graphical user interface to the representative and through the graphical user interface provide the representative the ability to interact with information that may be maintained requested and or provided by the institution system . As mentioned above the institution system may provide a unified graphical presentation output. In an implementation the unified graphical presentation is combined with other materials and transmitted to the representative .

A user access system may be implemented as a web server in an implementation. The user access system through the use of any suitable interactive web technology provides an interactive experience to the user and or the representative through which access to check processing and clearing data and status and related data can be accomplished. Any technology that provides interactivity through a web browser is considered to be within the scope of the present discussion and may include without limitation Java applet Hyper Text Mark Up Language HTML Dynamic HTML DHTML JavaScript and Ajax.

The institution system may comprise one or more computing devices . The computing device s may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules . The computing device s including processor s storage and software modules may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein.

Examples of software modules may include modules that may be used in conjunction with receiving and processing a digital image file comprising one or more digital images of the check without further interaction or instructions from the user or the user computing device retrieving data from the digital image file generating web page content for display receiving instructions from the representative or the user and providing status information and deposit confirmation to the user for example. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to . It will be appreciated that the examples herein are for purposes of illustration and explanation only and that an embodiment is not limited to such examples.

The client may login to a remote deposit system executed on the server . The login may serve to authenticate the user as an authorized consumer of the institution .

The server in one example may send instructions to the client which execute an application on the client . This may include instructions which cause a software object which may have been previously downloaded and installed on the client to be executed on the client . In another example the instructions may include a wholly self contained application which when delivered to the client will execute and perform one or more operations described herein.

In either example the software object may be configured to make one or more software calls to the scanner or other imaging device associated with the user computing device . This may be through specific software instructions to the scanner . In other words the scanner s functionality may not be abstracted through any software library. In such an example software code may be written and delivered to every different scanner.

In an alternate example the software object may operate through a software abstraction layer such as an application programming interface API . The software object developer may only insert code into the software object to call one or more APIs exposed by the software operating the user computing device .

The software object may cause the scanner to take a picture or capture one or more images of the check that is being deposited. These images may be captured sequentially e.g. pursuant to the user flipping the check over after an image of the front of the check has been captured. However each side of the check may be captured by the scanner using similar API calls. The images may be stored in an image file .

Once the images of one or both sides of the check are captured by the scanner the image file may be operated on by the software object of the client . These operations may include any of the following deskewing dewarping magnetic ink character recognition MICR cropping either automatically or having the user manually identify the corners and or edges of the check for example reducing the resolution of the image number detection character recognition and the like.

One or more software objects on the client may operate by performing one or more of the operations described herein and then transmitting an image file e.g. based on image file that has been processed to the server after the user submits that they do wish to deposit the check . Alternatively the software object s may capture the image s of the check and transmit the image s to the server which in turn may perform those operations and verify that the image quality is within acceptable thresholds. In this example the image s transmitted to the server may be in any format such as Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG or tabbed image file format TIFF insofar as the server software has the ability to convert the image s into a Check 21 compliant format. Alternatively the server may output an X9.37 file to the clearing system. The Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act or Check 21 Act is a United States federal law that allows the recipient of a paper check to create a digital version thereby eliminating the need for further handling of the physical document. The Check 21 standard for electronic exchange is defined in the standard DSTU X9.37 2003 X9.37 .

In an implementation on the server side more operations may be performed such as signature verification. However the present discussion is not limited in any way by discussion of where certain operations are described as operating. The operations of detecting and verifying information may be performed by the client before the information is transmitted along with the image s in the image file to the server . Alternatively the software object operating on the user computing device may perform no operation other then capturing images of the front and back of the check and transmitting those images to the server wherein the server performs processing and deposit of the check without any further instructions or interactions with the client after receiving the image s from the client .

In an implementation after the server has received the image file the client may be decoupled from the transaction such that the server manages the transaction and no further instructions or information is received or requested from the client prior to processing and deposit of the check. The server may retrieve the image s of the check from the image file and process the check for deposit into an account of the user. Such an atomic deposit transaction avoids an incomplete transaction which may have otherwise occurred due to a subsequent communication problem between the client and the server . At some point the server may provide a deposit confirmation to the user e.g. via the client .

In an implementation the image s may be received following a software call from the check processing module to the image capture module . In such an implementation the image capture module may include the scanner or other imaging device alone or in conjunction with a user computing device . The scanner may be detachably coupled to the user computing device such as through a secure digital SD slot or over any suitable communications bus such as USB universal serial bus .

In an implementation the image capture module may retrieve previously captured and stored image files e.g. in local remote or removable storage associated with the client apparatus and send the image files to an entity e.g. institution the server the server apparatus of etc. for processing.

In an implementation the client apparatus may comprise a browser such as a web browser for accessing a website on the Internet or other network associated with an institution. The user may access the website and select a capture image link or similar icon button or link for example displayed on the browser. Such a selection may call the image capture module on the client apparatus .

The communications module may be configured in one example to receive and send data signals over a suitable communications network. This may include without limitation GSM GPR3 HSDPA CDMA TDMA 802.11 802.16 and the like. With respect to the present discussion the communications module may receive one or more processed images from the check processing module and may transmit them over a suitable communications network to the institution as described herein e.g. pursuant to the user selecting a submit image link or similar icon button or link for example displayed on the browser.

The check processing module may be configured in one example to cause the image capture module to capture a digital image of at least one side of a negotiable instrument such as a check. The check processing module may then perform one or more cleaning operations on the image of the check. These cleaning operations at a high level are intended to ensure that the image of the check is suitable for one or more processing tasks. For instance if the check is rotated 45 degrees clockwise when captured the check processing module or a software object operated on the server described above may be unable to optically detect information on the check. In this example the check processing module may deskew the image such that the image is no longer rotated.

Another aspect of an image that may be cleaned is a warping of the image. Warping as used herein is meant to denote that the check is tilted forward or back with respect to a plane that is perpendicular to a line drawn from the camera lens e.g. of the scanner or other imaging device to the center of the check. Warping or tilting of the image may also lead to incorrect optical detection of the check. In an implementation the check processing module may dewarp the image such that in a three dimensional space the check would appear to be perpendicular to an imaginary line drawn from the center of the camera lens to the center of the check itself.

The check processing module in further examples may perform one or more other cleaning or processing operations. This may include down converting the image received from the image capture module to a suitable size such as 200 dots per inch DPI resolution or in a resolution range such as 200 DPI to 400 DPI 300 DPI to 500 DPI etc. and or converting the image to grayscale or black and white.

Alternatively the check processing module may send instructions to the image capture module to cause the image capture module to capture an image of the check at a particular resolution. The check processing module may additionally perform any of the following operations in further examples convert from JPEG to TIFF detect check information perform signature detection on the image of the check and the like. The check processing module may alternatively send the captured image s to the server described herein for such processing and subsequent deposit of the check into an account of the user.

The communications module may be configured to receive a wireless communication from the user computing device over any suitable communications network such as those described above. The check processing module may be configured in one example to perform one or more check processing operations on the processed image s that are received. In an implementation these operations may include any of the operations described herein with respect to the check processing module of . The operation of signature verification may be performed by the check processing module of the server apparatus as the server apparatus may interface with other systems of the institution that may maintain previously verified signature samples of the user .

A cropped grayscale image may be sent to the server apparatus . The server apparatus may perform further processing to remove distortion such as warping. The server apparatus may extract information via a TIFF conversion and determine the DPI and re scale to another DPI e.g. convert to TIFF and detect the DPI that was used in the grayscale image . In an implementation DPI detection may run on the client apparatus .

The check clearance module may be configured in one example to receive a file from the check processing module and may communicate with a check clearinghouse such that a Check 21 compliant file may be delivered to a check clearinghouse and funds may be received by the institution .

At the user may convert the check into an image file that comprises electronic data representing an image of the check. For example the user may create an image file comprising an image of the first side of the check the second side of the check or both. There may be several ways in which to create a digital image file of the check including but not limited to a scanner a digital camera a personal computer PC and or any other imaging device s .

The user may open a communication pathway with an institution that may be associated with an account for depositing funds by logging into a website for the institution for example. There may be several ways in which a communication pathway may be established including but not limited to an Internet connection via a website of the institution. The user may access the website and log into the website using credentials such as but not limited to a username and a password.

At some point the user may request access to a deposit system operated by the institution as described above by way of a user computing device a cellular phone a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld computing device etc. operated by the user. The access may be through some sort of user login in some examples. The deposit system may be configured to receive a deposit of a check from the user and clear the check in a suitable clearinghouse system.

The user may send a request to deposit the check and may select an account in which to deposit the check. In an implementation the user may select a deposit check option provided on the website and may enter details such as check amount date the account the check funds should be deposited in comments etc.

At the user may transmit the image file to the institution. For example the user may send the image file of the check to the institution using various means including but not limited to an Internet connection via a website of the institution or a wireless cellular transmission. In an implementation the image file may be sent to the institution via streaming. Alternatively the user may attach the image file to an email and send the email to the institution.

Additionally the image file may be augmented by secondary data which may be information relating to the check such as an account number a deposit amount or a routing number associated with the check and or relating to the account for depositing funds such as the account number and or the name on the account. The account number may appear on the check itself below the signature endorsing the check. The secondary data may be provided to the institution via an image file an email a facsimile instant message text message or selection via a website associated with the institution e.g. after the user opens a communication pathway with the institution before or after the user sends the digital image file of the portions of the check or other negotiable instrument to the institution etc. for example.

At the institution may receive the image file pertaining to the check along with financial information pertaining to the account for depositing funds and any secondary data. After the user submits the image file to the institution the institution may manage the transaction without any further instructions or information from the user. No further action is required from the user for the deposit of the check to proceed. Any browser navigation away from a web page or website used to upload the image file or image s to the institution communication failures user logouts etc. on the user side will not affect the processing and the deposit of the check.

At the institution may open the image file and process the image file to retrieve financial information from the image file. The image file may be processed using any known technology to retrieve financial information regarding the check. Example technologies that may be used by the institution may include edge detection image editing filtering to remove imagery except the check in the received image image sharpening and technologies to distinguish between the front and the back sides of the check.

At after retrieving the financial information from the check in an electronic data representation form the institution may determine whether the financial information such as the amount payable to the user the account associated with the user to deposit funds an account associated with a payor to debit funds and a financial institution associated with the payor and or the user may be valid.

At if the financial information is determined to be valid the electronic data representation may be processed by the institution at thereby depositing the check in the user s account. If the financial information is determined to be invalid at the user may be advised at . For example the institution may transmit an email a web message an instant message or the like to the user indicating that the financial information associated with the electronic data representation may be invalid. The user may determine how to proceed by selecting an option on the web message replying to the email or the like.

Thus in an implementation instructions on how the user would like to proceed may be requested from the user such as whether the user would like to try the electronic deposit again e.g. make another image file and send it to the institution or whether the user would like assistance from a representative for example. The user may indicate how they would like to proceed. If the user would like to try the electronic deposit again processing may continue at in an implementation. If the user would like assistance the user may be put into contact with a representative of the institution.

In an implementation if the financial information is determined to be invalid at the financial information may be transferred to a representative for further review at . The representative such as a customer service representative a bank teller that may be located at a branch a virtual bank teller that may be located remotely via an electronic device or the like may review the financial information associated with the electronic data representation to determine whether to allow the electronic data representation to be processed by the institution. For example the initial analysis may require a certain quality requirement a certain readability requirement or the like thus leading to a high failure rate even though the electronic data representation may otherwise be valid. Thus the representative may review the electronic data representation to determine whether the financial information may be readable and or of a good enough quality to be processed. If so the electronic data representation of the financial information may be processed by the institution at thereby depositing the check in the user s account.

In an implementation at the institution may process the electronic data representation of the check. To credit funds to the account the bank may generate an Automated Clearinghouse ACH debit entry substitute check and or electronic image. ACH transactions typically include payment instructions to debit and or credit an account. Banks often employ ACH service providers to settle ACH transactions. The ACH service provider may process the debit entry by identifying the account and bank from which the check may be drawn. If the payor s bank verifies the transaction the ACH service provider may settle the transaction by debiting the payor s bank and crediting the user s bank. The payor s bank may then debit the payor s account.

The user may receive a notice via email facsimile instant message or mail for example that the check has been deposited into the selected account. Additionally or alternatively the user may be provided with access to the institution e.g. via a link to a website to view transaction details. This allows the user to view whether the transaction was successful e.g. whether the image file was successfully received and processed at the institution whether the check was processed and funds were deposited in an account etc. . In an implementation if the check is not successfully deposited the institution may provide additional options to the user on how to redeem the check such as mailing the check to the institution or the like.

Although the examples described herein may refer to checks it is contemplated that any negotiable instruments may be processed using the techniques described herein.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and includes both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

