---

title: Electronic mail delivery physical delivery backup
abstract: An electronic communication such as electronic mail (email) may be sent to a recipient through a network and may be monitored for delivery success. The email may contain information regarding generation and delivery of a physical document to the recipient. If the email is not delivered to the recipient's electronic address or is not opened by the recipient, a physical document may be generated and delivered to the recipient's physical address.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08615554&OS=08615554&RS=08615554
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08615554
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080416
---
This application is related by subject matter to that disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications the entirety of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 103 894 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 103 887 each filed on Apr. 16 2008 and each entitled Electronic Mail Delivery With Physical Delivery Backup. 

Electronic mail or email is a store and forward method of composing sending storing and receiving messages over electronic communication systems. Email tracking is directed to techniques for monitoring email delivery to an intended recipient. Email traditionally provides no mechanism for tracking a sent message. The system s involved will generally make an effort to either deliver mail or return a failure notice bounce message but there is no guarantee that a message will actually be delivered let alone read by the recipient. It is difficult to confirm electronic delivery or verification of an electronic communication such as an email with high reliability. This is in contrast to the postal mail system which offers registered mail or other forms of tracking and tracing.

An electronic communication such as electronic mail email may be sent to a recipient through a network and may be monitored for delivery success. The email may contain information regarding generation and delivery of a physical document to the recipient. If the email is not delivered to the recipient s electronic address or is not opened by the recipient a physical document may be generated and delivered to the recipient s physical address.

In an implementation a common carrier may receive instructions from a user and generate and send the email to the recipient. The user and or the common carrier may be apprised of the delivery success of the email. The email may be certified or otherwise trusted.

In an implementation a common carrier who may have decentralized distributions centers may generate the physical document and or may deliver the physical document to the recipient. The physical document may be sent as a certified document to the recipient.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The sender may create an email using the sender mail client and may send the email to a recipient e.g. by typing in an email address of the recipient and clicking send. The sender mail client may comprise an application the sender uses to compose and read email such as Microsoft Outlook etc. The sender mail client may also comprise a mail delivery agent MDA to which the email may be transferred. The MDA accepts the email then routes it to local mailboxes or forwards the email to the sender mail server if it is not locally addressed. If the email is not locally addressed the sender mail client formats the message in Internet email format and uses the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP to send the message to the sender mail server e.g. provided by the sender s Internet Service Provider ISP . SMTP is the de facto standard for email transmissions across the Internet and specifies the protocol by which email is transmitted. SMTP is a text based protocol in which one or more recipients of a message are specified along with the message text and possibly other encoded objects.

The sender mail server receives the email and forwards it through a network . The sender mail server may comprise a computer program or software agent that transfers electronic mail messages from one computer to another.

The network such as the Internet may comprise mail servers . Although only three mail servers are shown any number of mail servers may be comprised within the network . Additionally or alternatively the network may comprise any number of devices and services such as domain name system DNS servers and routers for example. These devices and services may slow when processing an unusually heavy load may temporarily be unable to receive an email when taken down for maintenance and sometimes may not have identified themselves properly to the Internet through the DNS so that other mail servers in the network are unable to deliver email as addressed. These devices and services as well as the components on the recipient side described below may be protected by firewalls spam filters and malware detection software that may bounce or even delete an email. A spam filter is shown between the network and the recipient side of the system . It is contemplated that a whitelist may be used so that an email from a sender such as user or a common carrier described further herein may bypass the firewalls spam filters and malware detection software. A whitelist is a list of trusted Internet protocol IP addresses and domains that allows all mail from these addresses to be delivered. The sender might be whitelisted with ISPs to reduce blocking of electronic delivery to the recipient s email box.

It is contemplated that the network may comprise any type of private or public communication network such as for example an intranet Internet local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless fidelity WiFi network cellular connection plain old telephone service POTS and the like.

In the network the email is routed along a host to host chain of mail servers e.g. mail servers . When transferring an email a sending mail server handles all aspects of mail delivery until the message has been either accepted or rejected by a receiving mail server. Each mail server in the network requests directions from the DNS in order to identify the next mail server in the delivery chain. Parts or all of the path may be specified deliberately routing a message through a series of mail servers.

To find the recipient s IP address and mailbox a mail server drills down through the DNS which consists of a set of servers distributed across the Internet beginning with the root nameservers at the top level domain .tld then domain nameservers that handle requests for domains within that .tld and eventually to nameservers that know about the local domain.

For example the mail server asks the appropriate DNS server which mail exchange MX servers have knowledge of the subdomain or local host in the email address. The DNS server responds with an MX record comprising a prioritized list of MX servers for this domain. An MX server is a mail server performing a particular function. To the DNS server the server that accepts messages is an MX server. When it is transferring messages it is a mail server. The mail server contacts the MX servers on the MX record in order of priority until it finds the designated host for that address domain. The sending mail server asks if the host accepts messages for the recipient s username at that domain i.e. username domain.tld and transfers the message.

The term mail server is also used to mean a computer acting as an MTA that is running the appropriate software. The term mail exchanger MX in the context of the DNS formally refers to an IP address assigned to a device hosting a mail server and by extension also indicates the server itself.

As shown in a recipient has an associated computing device on which the email may be received and displayed to the recipient . A recipient mail server and a recipient mail client are also shown. After the email is routed through the network and past the spam filter it is accepted for delivery by the recipient mail server . The recipient mail server calls a local MDA to deliver the mail to the correct mailbox where it will sit until it is retrieved by the recipient mail client . The recipient may then view the email on the associated computing device . For example the recipient presses the get mail button in his MUA which picks up the message using the Post Office Protocol POP3 . This sequence of events applies to the majority of email users. However there are many alternative possibilities to the email system.

Although only one sender and one recipient are shown in it is contemplated that any number of senders and recipients may be included within the system . Each computing device and may be a laptop or notebook computer a handheld computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a mobile phone or any type of personal computer PC for example. An example computing device is described with respect to .

Additional networks such as one or more company networks may also be included within the system . For example a company network might reside between the sender mail client and the sender mail server and another company network might reside between the recipient mail server and the recipient mail client . For example email service providers and other companies that process a large volume of email often have their own private networks. These organizations commonly have multiple mail servers and route all email through a central gateway server i.e. mail hub that redistributes mail to whichever mail server is available. Email on these secondary mail servers must usually wait for the primary mail server i.e. the designated host for that domain to become available at which time the secondary mail server will transfer its messages to the primary mail server.

Email has a particular format as specified by Request for Comments RFC 2822 for example. Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions MIME supplements the email formatting rules to allow non English text in both email headers and bodies and defines a mechanism for including non textual attachments in email bodies.

Email messages generally comprise a header and a body. The header of an email may contain fields such as summary sender receiver and other information about the email. The header may contain an envelope header which may have information that may be hidden from the sender and or recipient and a message header which is usually visible. The body of an email may contain the message itself as unstructured text. The header may be separated from the body by a blank line. Each header field has a name and a value. RFC 2822 specifies the precise syntax. Note that the To field in the header is not necessarily related to the addresses to which the message is delivered. The actual delivery list is supplied in the SMTP protocol not extracted from the header content. An email wrapper carries metadata. The metadata may contain instructions for generating and sending a physical document to the recipient if the email is not received and or opened by the recipient .

Most email tracking technologies use some form of digitally time stamped record to reveal the exact time and date that an email was opened along with the Internet protocol IP address of the recipient. A web bug or web beacon is an object that is embedded in an email and is usually invisible to the recipient but allows checking that a recipient has viewed the email and thus provides a form of email tracking. When the recipient reads the email the email client requests the image letting the sender know that the email address is valid and that the email was viewed. However tracking via web bugs can be prevented by using email clients that do not download images whose uniform resource locators URLs are embedded in hypertext markup language HTML emails. Many graphical email clients can be configured to avoid accessing remote images. Many modern email readers and email services will not load images when opening an HTML email from an unknown sender or that is suspected to be spam mail. The user must explicitly choose to load images. Web bugs can also be filtered out at the server level so that they never reach the recipient.

As an email passes through the delivery chain from sender to recipient the mail servers add timestamps message identifiers and mail server location information to the email such as in the envelope header s received field. The envelope header may also contain a return path field. The return path contains the address of the email sender.

The email may have metadata added to it at the sender computing device . The metadata may include information such as a physical address of the recipient and instructions for generating and sending a physical document to the recipient along with any additional information that the sender chooses to include. In an implementation the metadata may be encrypted using any known encryption technique s .

If the email is not successfully delivered to the recipient computing device and or is not opened after having been delivered the sender may be apprised and may store this information in storage such as storage which may be a database associated with the sender . A database associated with and or used by the sender or a common carrier described further herein may contain entries directed to an email or particular content or information for an email such as an identifier a creation date data a pointer to recipient data or a recipient array of data etc. The recipient data may contain information directed to a recipient s response to the email and or the physical document .

The sender may generate a physical document e.g. by generating and printing out a document based on the contents of the email using the computing device or another computing device. The physical document may be generated and sent pursuant to instructions and information e.g. a recipient s physical address contained within the email such as within a header of the email . The sender may send the physical document to the recipient via any physical delivery technique such as via a postal service or other common carrier. A common carrier is an organization that transports people or goods and offers its services to the general public. As used herein a common carrier may be a trusted party may certify email and or physical documents and may provide delivery and receipt services.

In an implementation the email may be sent via a trusted or certified channel to ensure that the email is not compromised during transmission and to ensure that the email was properly delivered to the recipient mail client and or the recipient . Additionally or alternatively the physical document may be sent for physical delivery through a trusted or certified channel providing the sender with a proof of mailing and a proof of delivery for example.

At operation the email may be sent to the recipient. The email may be sent by a user who generated the email or by another user or entity such as a common carrier. At operation it may be determined if the recipient has received the email in their mailbox. Any known technique s for determining if the email has been successfully delivered to the recipient s mailbox may be used. In an implementation if the recipient reports the email as spam this may be affirmation of receipt by the recipient. The sender of the email may get a notice of the spam and the notice may be used to confirm receipt by the recipient.

If the email is not successfully delivered e.g. it bounced because of an incorrect recipient email address or a non functioning recipient mailbox etc. the sender may receive a notification that the email was not successfully delivered at operation . At operation the sender may generate a physical document. The physical document may be generated using instructions associated with or contained within the email that was not successfully delivered. In an implementation the email that was not successfully delivered may be obtained e.g. from storage with a bounce message etc. by the sender and the physical delivery information may be retrieved from the email e.g. by decrypting the header information or metadata . Alternatively or additionally physical delivery information may have been stored in storage by the sender prior to sending the email and the physical delivery information may be retrieved and used in the generation of the physical document. At operation the physical document may be sent to the physical address of the recipient using information associated with or contained within the email that was not successfully delivered. The physical document may be sent using any physical delivery technique s .

If the email has been successfully delivered then the sender may receive a notification of the successful delivery at operation . This provides the sender with a record of a successful delivery. The notification may be stored by the sender and may be used as evidence to certify that the email was successfully delivered.

At operation it may be determined if the email has been opened using any known technique s . In an implementation if it cannot be determined confirmed or verified that the email has been opened e.g. within a predetermined amount of time such as two days one week etc. processing may continue at operation with the sender being notified and a physical document thereafter being generated and sent to the recipient s physical address.

If the email has been opened regardless of whether the recipient opened the email or another party opened the email through the recipient s mailbox then the sender may receive a notification of the email having been opened at operation . The notification may be stored by the sender and may be used as evidence to certify that the email that had been delivered to the recipient s mailbox was opened.

In an implementation when the recipient opens or downloads the email a notification may be sent to the sender. The email may contain a mechanism that notifies the sender when it has been delivered viewed in a preview pane and or opened. Mechanisms might include a web beacon a web bug a read receipt and or a link to a website or content that may be clicked in an email which are all known and their descriptions are omitted for brevity. In an implementation the username of the logged in user could be recorded by the software object and transmitted back to the sender.

A common carrier such as a postal service or other organization that transports goods may have a computing device or other computing system and associated storage . An example computing device is described with respect to .

In an implementation if the email is not received by the recipient or opened from the recipient s mailbox the common carrier may receive notification of the unsuccessful delivery and opening of the email . Such notification may also be provided to the sender who may store the notification in the storage for example. Responsive to receiving the notification the common carrier may generate a physical document based on the email and instructions contained within the email or previously provided to the common carrier or the storage for example. The common carrier may provide physical delivery of the physical document to the recipient and advise the sender .

In an implementation the common carrier may provide certified trusted delivery of the physical document . Notification of successful physical delivery of the physical document may be stored by the common carrier in the storage and may be stored by the sender in the storage for example.

The common carrier may have a central location from which the physical document may be generated and sent or may be decentralized. In an implementation in which the common carrier is decentralized e.g. multiple locations spread throughout an area such as multiple locations in a service area a city a state etc. a location of the common carrier e.g. a local office or distribution center that is near or closest to the recipient s physical address may be determined and that location may generate and send the physical document to the recipient .

If the email is not successfully delivered a common carrier previously selected by the user for example may receive a notification that the email was not successfully delivered at operation . Additionally or alternatively the user may receive a notification regarding the unsuccessful delivery. The common carrier may receive notification directly pursuant to the unsuccessful delivery or may receive notification from the user.

At operation the common carrier may generate a physical document. The physical document may be generated using instructions associated with or contained within the email that was not successfully delivered. In an implementation the email that was not successfully delivered may be obtained e.g. from storage with a bounce message etc. by the common carrier or the user who may provide the email to the common carrier and the physical delivery information may be retrieved from the email e.g. by decrypting the header information or metadata . Alternatively or additionally physical delivery information may have been stored in storage by the user and or the common carrier prior to sending the email and the physical delivery information may be retrieved and used in the generation of the physical document.

At operation the physical document may be sent to the physical address of the recipient using information associated with or contained within the email that was not successfully delivered. The physical document may be sent by the common carrier using any physical delivery technique s . The common carrier may advise the user at operation regarding the physical delivery of the physical document to the recipient.

In an implementation storage may be provided that is accessible to the common carrier and the user. This storage may be used to store email information physical document information and successful and unsuccessful delivery notifications for example. Thus in an implementation the common carrier may receive a notification and store the notification in the storage which in turn may be accessed by the user for a status update or delivery confirmation purposes for example.

If the email has been successfully delivered the user may receive a notification of the successful delivery at operation . As with the method the notification may be stored by the user. At operation it may be determined if the email has been opened using any known technique s . In an implementation if it cannot be determined confirmed or verified that the email has been opened e.g. within a predetermined amount of time such as two days one week etc. processing may continue at operation with the user and or common carrier being notified and a physical document thereafter being generated and sent to the recipient s physical address.

If the email has been opened regardless of whether the recipient opened the email or another party opened the email through the recipient s mailbox then the user may receive a notification of the email having been opened at operation . The notification may be stored by the user and may be used as evidence to certify that the email that had been delivered to the recipient s mailbox was opened.

A common carrier such as a postal service or other organization that transports goods may have a computing device or other computing system and associated storage . An example computing device is described with respect to .

In an implementation the common carrier may receive information pertaining to email content and delivery information e.g. email delivery information and physical delivery information from the sender . The common carrier may generate an email and send the email to the recipient .

If the email is not received by the recipient or opened from the recipient s mailbox the common carrier may receive notification of the unsuccessful delivery and opening of the email . Notification may also be provided to the sender . Responsive to receiving the notification the common carrier may generate a physical document based on the email and instructions previously provided to the common carrier or the storage for example. The common carrier may provide physical delivery of the physical document to the recipient and advise the sender .

As with the system of in an implementation the common carrier may provide certified trusted delivery of the physical document . Notification of successful physical delivery of the physical document may be stored by the common carrier in the storage and may be stored by the sender in the storage for example.

The common carrier may have a single location or may have multiple locations e.g. may be decentralized . In an implementation in which the common carrier is decentralized the instructions and information from the sender may be received and processed by one location and one or more other locations of the common carrier may be involved in the generation and sending of the email the monitoring of the delivery and opening of the email and the generation and physical delivery of the physical document . In an implementation in which the common carrier is decentralized a location of the common carrier that is near or closest to the recipient s physical address may be determined and that location may generate and send the email and or the physical document to the recipient . Alternatively one or more locations of a decentralized common carrier may be determined that are least busy and the location s may service the sender the email and or the physical document .

At operation the common carrier may generate an email for a recipient based on the information received from the user as well as from information that may be in storage that is accessible to the common carrier. The information may have been previously generated and or received by the common carrier and stored. Additionally or alternatively the information may have been stored by the user or a third party if the user or third party had access to the storage.

At operation the common carrier may send the email to the recipient and at operation it may be determined if the recipient has received the email in their mailbox. As with the method any known technique s for determining if the email has been successfully delivered to the recipient s mailbox may be used.

If the email is not successfully delivered the common carrier may receive a notification that the email was not successfully delivered at operation . Additionally or alternatively the user may receive a notification regarding the unsuccessful delivery. At operation the common carrier may generate a physical document using instructions associated with or contained within the email that was not successfully delivered. At operation the physical document may be sent to the physical address of the recipient using information associated with or contained within the email that was not successfully delivered. The physical document may be sent by the common carrier using any physical delivery technique s . The common carrier may advise the user at operation regarding the physical delivery of the physical document to the recipient.

As described with respect to the method storage may be provided that is accessible to the common carrier and the user and may be used to store email information physical document information and successful and unsuccessful delivery notifications for example.

If the email has been successfully delivered the common carrier and or the user may receive a notification of the successful delivery at operation . The notification may be stored by the common carrier and or the user. In an implementation the common carrier may receive the notification and may advise the user e.g. by email facsimile text message telephone etc. regarding the status of the email delivery.

At operation it may be determined if the email has been opened using any known technique s . In an implementation if it cannot be determined confirmed or verified that the email has been opened e.g. within a predetermined amount of time such as two days one week etc. processing may continue at operation with the user and or common carrier being notified and a physical document thereafter being generated and sent to the recipient s physical address.

If the email has been opened regardless of whether the recipient opened the email or another party opened the email through the recipient s mailbox then the common carrier and or the user may receive a notification of the email having been opened at operation . The notification may be stored by the common carrier and or the user and may be used as evidence to certify that the email that had been delivered to the recipient s mailbox was opened. In an implementation the common carrier may receive the notification and may advise the user e.g. by email regarding the status of the email being opened.

In an implementation the common carrier may certify that the content of the email and or the physical document that the common carrier has generated and or sent is unaltered.

In an implementation a common carrier may generate and send an email and if the email bounces e.g. is not successfully delivered to the recipient the common carrier may not generate and send a physical document to the recipient s physical address. Instead the user or a third party may be notified regarding the unsuccessful delivery and the user or the third party may generate and send a physical document to the recipient s physical address.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

