---

title: Method and system for providing managed caller identification services
abstract: An approach provides managed caller identification services. An image is retrieved from a repository maintained by a service provider in response to initiation of a communication session by the user with another user. The image is associated with a directory address for a user. The image is transmitted along with the directory address for presentation to the other user during establishment of the communication session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08515037&OS=08515037&RS=08515037
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08515037
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080612
---
The telecommunication industry offers a wide variety of telephony services to customers via wired and wireless networks. However with the advent of packet switched networks supporting for example voice over Internet Protocol services an increasing number of individuals have been migrating from the use of traditional communication based technologies to synergistic multimedia platforms as well as to converged infrastructures e.g. legacy circuit switched networks converged with packet switched networks wired networks converged with wireless networks etc.. As such traditional telecommunication service providers are being challenged to develop new sources of revenue such as enhanced caller identification services. When a caller places a call to a called party either the telephony network or an end device identifies the caller to the called party through caller identification information i.e. name and directory address of the caller. Traditionally this caller identification information conveyed no other information.

Therefore there is a need for an approach that provides enhanced caller identification information as well as provides caller identification more efficiently and effectively.

A preferred apparatus method and software for providing managed caller identification services are described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the preferred embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however that the preferred embodiments may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the preferred embodiments of the invention.

Although various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to image based caller identification CID displays it is contemplated that various exemplary embodiments are also applicable to auditory CID presentations media CID presentations multimedia CID presentations and the like.

As mentioned when a calling party traditionally initiated a communication session e.g. telephone call with a called party over an existing communication network either the communication network e.g. a call processing entity or an end device e.g. telephony terminal provided the called party with CID information e.g. name and or directory address corresponding to the calling party. Based on the CID information the called party was then able to choose whether or not to accept e.g. answer the communication session. In response to the overwhelming success of CID telecommunication service providers have begun extending the methodology to other CID like identifiers such as distinctive ringtones and image based contact managers which provide called parties with additional mechanisms to identify calling parties. Device manufacturers are also enabling called parties to locally specify CID information and or CID like identifiers for identifying calling parties. Unfortunately these technologies are limited to incoming communication sessions. Namely when a calling party initiates an outgoing communication session the calling party is not provided with any information to aid them in confirming that they are in fact attempting to communicate with an intended called party. These technologies have also been limited to local implementations. That is there is no centralized approach for specifying storing and managing CID profiles. Further these technologies are confined to called party specification. More specifically the calling party is presently incapable of controlling what CID information or CID like identifiers are presented to a calling party. All in all existing CID services and technologies do not enable called parties and calling parties alike to robustly or ubiquitously individualize their CID experiences. Thus it is apparent that more flexible efficient techniques for CID are needed.

Therefore the approach according to certain embodiments stems from the recognition that providing a managed CID service whereby subscribers can create and configure one or more CID profiles including associations between images directory addresses and other CID like identifiers provides an efficient and convenient technique to enable individuals to enhance and personalize their CID experiences as well as provides service providers a synergistic approach for leveraging existing infrastructures and for generating new sources of revenue.

As seen in system introduces a managed CID service through a CID platform that is configured to enable users to upload or specify the location of one or more images and associate those images with one or more directory addresses and or other CID like identifiers e.g. messages ringtones ringbacks etc. In certain instances users may upload images from any suitable client device or end terminal such as computing device mobile voice station or voice station . Additionally or alternatively the location of one or more images may be specified by users according to an extensible resource identifier XRI internet protocol IP address uniform resource identifier URI hypertext transfer protocol HTTP address or other suitable address identifier or locator. As such exemplary embodiments enable users to specify the location of images posted to a website s or web portal s e.g. a social network site or maintained at a networked storage facility such as repository which is configured to store CID content such as one or more images or image locations. Accordingly CID platform or another component or facility of system may include a domain name system DNS for associating various addresses identifiers or locators with domain names for obtaining specified images. Further CID platform may also be configured to maintain one or more centralized repositories e.g. CID content repository and CID profiles repository to enable users to create and configure e.g. schedule etc. one or more CID profiles including in exemplary embodiments one or more CID buddy lists for organizing and managing CID information and CID like identifiers. Scheduling may be based on one or more dates times or events. In this manner CID platform may also be configured to provide or be accessible via a networked e.g. online web etc. portal and as such may be implemented as or distributed between one or more frontend middleware and or backend servers. CID platform is described in more detail in association with .

In exemplary embodiments system enables managed CID services through one or more CID presentations e.g. CID display . For instance in response to a user initiating a communication session with another user an image associated with a directory address for the user may be retrieved from a repository maintained by a service provider such as CID content repository . The image along with the directory address may then be transmitted to the other user during establishment of the communication session. Further the repository or another repository e.g. CID content repository may include an image for the other user for presentation to the user during establishment of the communication session. Accordingly the image for the other user along with a corresponding directory address and or CID like identifiers may be transmitted to the user before during or after the CID transmission to the other user. Additionally or alternatively CID information and or CID like identifiers for the user or the other user may be stored or partially cached to a memory or local or external repository of client devices and therefore need not be provided by CID platform . In particular instances presentation of CID information and or CID like identifiers may include modifying resolution of the images or modifying compression of the images. Namely CID platform may store and or provide images in a compressed format or lower resolution for storage and bandwidth efficiencies wherein end terminals or other network node e.g. a call processing entity may be configured to uncompress or increase resolution of the image for enhanced presentation. In other instances CID display may be configured as a media or multimedia presentation that includes sound content e.g. a distinctive ringtone recorded utterance etc. text content e.g. short message reminder etc. and or video content e.g. a short video clip media content etc. . This media or multimedia content may be stored at any suitable location e.g. CID content repositories CID profiles repository or in any suitable memory e.g. a memory of communication devices CID platform etc.

According to various embodiments the communication session may correspond to a voice call established over one or more wireline and or wireless circuit switched networks and or packet switched networks. These networks may correspond to circuit switched network packet switched network wireless network and or service provider network . For example circuit switched network may include a circuit switched telephony network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other network configured to provide voice services over wired access networks. Wireless network may employ various technologies including for example code division multiple access CDMA enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile packet switched network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network having voice over internet protocol VoIP capabilities e.g. a proprietary soft switched VoIP network or a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Although depicted as separate entities networks may be completely or partially contained within one another or may embody one or more of the aforementioned infrastructures. For instance service provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched telephony networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based telephony communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner networks may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

Accordingly the conjunction of networks may be adapted to provide the managed CID service of system enable user access to CID platform and facilitate communication sessions between calling parties and called parties at various end terminals such as communication devices . As such communication devices may include any customer premise equipment CPE capable of sending and or receiving voice communications over one or more of networks as well as include or be accompanied by a suitable monochromatic or color display for CID presentation. For instance voice station may be any suitable plain old telephone service POTS device facsimile machine etc. while mobile voice station may be any cellular phone radiophone femtocell phone satellite phone smart phone wireless phone e.g. WiFi 802.11 phone or any other suitable mobile voice enabled device such as a personal digital assistant PDA pocket personal computer tablet customized hardware etc. Further computing device may be any voice enabled computing device capable of packetized voice communications such as a VoIP phone skinny client control protocol SCCP phone session initiation protocol SIP phone IP phone personal computer softphone etc. In other instances computing device need not be voice enabled and therefore primarily utilized to access CID platform for creating and configuring e.g. scheduling etc. one or more CID profiles or to access CID content repositories and CID profiles repository or websites and or web portals .

As shown system includes CID content repositories and as well as CID profiles repository . CID content repositories may include various CID information CID like identifiers and or suitable media or multimedia content. In exemplary embodiments CID repositories at least include image content like for example avatars drawings figures graphics logos pictures photographs etc. Media or multimedia content may correspond to aural content e.g. music ringbacks ringtones sound utterances etc. and or other visual content e.g. text video etc. suitable for use in one or more CID presentations e.g. CID display . While it is contemplated that CID content particularly includes actual content e.g. actual images embodiments of system are not so limited. For instance CID repositories may include links indicators or locators e.g. IP addresses HTTP addresses URIs XRIs etc. for acquiring the actual content from other repositories storage locations websites etc. In certain embodiments the CID content of CID repositories may include CID content provided or maintained by third party suppliers e.g. networked social sites or a service provider. These additional forms of CID content may be modified by subscribers and or made to append to CID presentations such as CID display .

CID profiles repository may include information corresponding to subscribers of the managed CID service such as standard user profile information e.g. subscription information account numbers directory addresses usernames passwords security questions monikers circuit identification ID private virtual connection PVC ID virtual local area network VLAN ID etc. subscriber demographics age gender ethnicity location of residence zip code school district community socioeconomic status religion marital status ownerships languages mobility life cycles etc. group organizational affiliations e.g. political memberships interests buddies friends cohorts system configurations policies associated users devices etc. as well as any other suitable information. According to various embodiments CID profiles may include one or more association tables such as described with respect to or one or more CID buddy lists which are more fully explained in connection with .

Accordingly it is contemplated that the physical implementation of repositories may take many forms including for example portions of existing repositories of a service provider new repositories of a service provider third party repositories and or shared repositories. As such repositories may be configured for communication over system through any suitable messaging protocol such as lightweight directory access protocol LDAP extensible markup language XML open database connectivity ODBC structured query language SQL and the like as well as combinations thereof. In those instances when repositories are provided in distributed fashions information and content available via repositories may be located utilizing various querying mechanisms such as electronic number matching ENUM distributed universal number discovery DUNDi uniform resource identifiers URI etc.

In exemplary embodiments CID platform enables users or subscribers to create and configure one or more CID profiles including associations between images directory addresses and in certain instances other CID like identifiers. In this manner CID platform provides a user interface e.g. a networked portal to permit user access to the features and functionality of CID platform via communication devices . According to certain embodiments user interface module may be configured for exchanging information between client devices and a web browser or other networked based application. In exemplary embodiments user interface module executes a graphical user interface GUI application configured to provide users with one or more menus of options for creating and configuring CID profiles which may include CID buddy lists as well as engage with the other features of the managed CID services of system . An exemplary GUI is described in more detail in accordance with .

As such user interface module enables users to upload images from a memory or local or external repository of client devices or specify image locations such as locations corresponding to a third party website networked social site etc for retrieving images. In one embodiment the images are stored or partially cached to non volatile local storage of the client devices in this manner outgoing calls employing CID can be readily supported. CID platform includes retrieval module for in conjunction with communication interface retrieving images from specified image locations. For instance a user may specify a URI of an image located at a networked social site within a GUI provided by user interface module . User interface module may port the URI to retrieval module for obtaining the image at the designated location via communication interface . In this manner CID platform also includes storage module for storing uploaded or retrieved images or uploaded image locations to CID profiles repository and or CID content repositories . Storage module may according to particular embodiments store images in a compressed format or at a lower resolution based on one or more storage requirements. Other embodiments enable storage module to receive image content in a first format and then convert such format into a second format which can enable images to be made more easily accessible to a more diverse set of system components and or facilities. A translator not shown may be provided for this purpose. As such images may be suitably stored at CID platform via for example memory or at any other suitable location such as CID repositories CID profiles repository or at communication devices . Any suitable image format may be utilized and or converted to and may include formats such as graphics interchange format GIF joint photographic experts group JPEG format portable network graphics PNG format scalable vector graphics SVG format tagged image file format TIFF etc. According to other embodiments user interface module enables users to download images from one or more of CID repositories or CID profiles repository to a suitable memory such as a memory of communication devices or a local or external repository of communication devices . Further embodiments of user interface module enable users to synchronize end terminal instances of one or more CID profiles or CID buddy lists with centralized versions of one or more CID profiles or CID buddy lists.

In this manner users may associate one or more images or image locations with one or more directory addresses via a user interface of user interface module . According to other embodiments user interface module may provide client devices with one or more application programming interfaces API that can be applied to existing browser applications. These APIs may be configured to enable users to interact with existing networked sites or portals e.g. networked social sites while at the same time enabling users to seamlessly associate one or more images or image locations with one or more directory addresses. This API functionality may be provided via an added drop down menu or widget application. Associations may be configured organized scheduled or otherwise managed via a CID buddy list. Particular instances enable users to schedule associations based on one or more dates times or events e.g. Birthdays Christmas Hanukah New Years etc. . It is also contemplated that the user interface of user interface module enables users to perform the aforementioned functions but instead of with respect to images user interface module may be utilized for building additional associations with CID like identifiers.

Accordingly user interfaces e.g. GUIs of user interface module may be presented in one or more windows of a conventional browser application. According to certain embodiments the GUI s may be generated and presented in one or more windows controlled by computing device mobile voice station and when feasible voice station . By way of example mobile voice station may include a managed CID interface that provides soft and or hard controls for creating and configuring CID profiles and CID buddy lists as well as interfacing with other functions and features of the managed CID service of system . The interface may include one or more soft keys or other GUI implementations such as a keypad touch pad etc. As such mobile voice station may include a processor and memory configured to store and execute instructions for supporting the managed CID service as well as other communication functions. Hence the GUI s of user interface module or corresponding client devices and or may comprise pages of both textual and graphical information as well as various interactive control widgets through which users may access and interact with CID platform . In turn users at computing device and or mobile voice station can be permitted to input commands to user interface module to control or otherwise manipulate the managed CID service of system .

According to other exemplary embodiments CID platform can be configured to retrieve from for example a repository e.g. CID repository maintained by a service provider such as a CID service provider an image associated with a directory address for a user in response to initiation of a communication session by the user with another user. In other embodiments image retrieval may be made from a website or web portal CID content repository CID profiles repository or communication devices . In this manner retrieval module may be further configured in connection with communication interface to retrieve images from the aforementioned locations in response to initiation of the communication session. Retrieval may be based on a user specified image location stored to for instance a CID profile which may include a CID buddy list for scheduling and organizing one or more associations between images directory addresses and other CID like identifiers. CID profile may alternatively or additionally include a policy for performing retrieval and or provisioning functions. The image along with the corresponding directory address and or other CID like identifier may be transmitted to the other user during establishment of the communication session. According to one embodiment the image may be provided in a compressed format or a modified resolution or may be compressed or modified by for example storage module before transmission to a client device such as mobile voice station . It is also contemplated that CID platform can be configured to retrieve from a suitable location e.g. one or more of websites CID repositories CID profiles repository communication devices an image for the other user for presentation to the user during establishment of the communication session. The user may also be presented with other CID information e.g. a corresponding directory address or CID like identifiers which may be included in the transmission or provided in another transmission to a respective client device e.g. computing device of the user. It is further contemplated that the functionality of CID platform may be provided by one or more applications executing on one or more of communication devices .

In order to provide selective access to the features and functionality of the managed CID services of system CID platform may include authentication module for authenticating or authorizing users to the service. It is contemplated that authentication module may operate in concert with communication interface and or user interface module . That is authentication module may verify user provided credential information acquired via communication interface or user interface module against corresponding credential information stored within a CID profile of repository . By way of example the credential information may include log on information corresponding to a user name password coded key or other unique identification parameter such a personal identification number PIN . In other embodiments the credential information may include any one or combination of a birth date an account number e.g. bank credit card billing code etc. a social security number SSN an address e.g. work home IP media access control MAC etc. or telephone listing e.g. work home cellular etc. as well as any other form of uniquely identifiable datum e.g. biometric code voice print etc. Users may provide this information via client devices such as by spoken utterances dual tone multi frequency signals DTMF packetized transmission etc. Unobtrisive security may be provided by positively identifying and screening users based on one or more of the aforementioned credentials which may be seamlessly provided when client devices communicate with CID platform such as a unique circuit ID PVC ID VLAN ID IP address MAC address etc. Other unobtrusive measures can be made available via user specific voice prints etc.

Additionally CID platform may include one or more processors or controllers for effectuating the aforementioned managed CID services via authentication module communication interface memory retrieval module storage module and user interface module .

Once registered CID platform enables the user per step to generate a CID profile including for instance a user defined CID policy for extending the managed CID service to the user as well as other users or individuals the user may attempt to contact via a communication session. The CID profile may include the aforementioned standardized user profile information e.g. username password account information billing information configuration information and the like as well as particular CID configuration information identifiers images image locations etc. As previously mentioned a more detailed description of a CID profile will be provided in conjunction with . It is noted however that CID profiles can include at least one image or image location associated with a corresponding directory address. As such CID platform may obtain and associate the image or image location with one or more directory addresses within the configured CID profile per step . A CID buddy list may be utilized for organizing scheduling or otherwise managing these associations as well as additional associations with CID like identifiers or other CID information. Again as previously noted a more detailed description of a CID buddy list will be provided in connection with .

After generating a CID profile CID platform may store the user to a list of subscribers to the managed CID service as well as a list of subscriber device e.g. client devices identifiers authentication information and user defined CID profiles to CID profiles repository or other suitable memory such as memory . Additionally or alternatively users may directly interact with CID profile repository . Images image locations CID like identifiers etc. may be retrieved from for example one or more websites or web portals CID content repository or communication devices and stored to CID content repository which can be maintained by a service provider. Further CID profiles identifiers images image locations and or configuration data may be stored within respective client devices e.g. client devices . For example and assuming a client device such as mobile voice station includes or has access to suitable storage capacity CID profiles identifiers images image locations and or configuration data may be associated with one or more directory addresses and stored at the client device. Further if a client device e.g. client devices has limited storage capacity portions of the aforementioned content information or data may be cached to a memory e.g. volatile random access memory etc. or local or external storage device e.g. embedded or removable storage like for example a non volatile read only memory non volatile flash memory card or drive etc. of the client device. Thus CID platform per step can transmit a directory address image and or any other CID information or CID like identifier to the user e.g. calling party and or another user e.g. a called party upon a triggering event e.g. initiation of a communication session by the user with the other user. In those instances when CID profiles identifiers images image locations and or configuration data is stored or accessible to client devices client devices need not receive all or portions of the aforementioned content information or data from CID platform such as when a communication session is initiated or received. It is also contemplated that CID platform can signal respective client devices to perform its tasks such as for example when the directory address image and or other CID information or CID like identifiers are locally stored at or accessible to client devices .

Accordingly the user may wish to associate the directory addresses with one or more images or image locations for presentation via for example CID display so that potential communication session contacts may identify the user as an initiator of a communication session. In other embodiments CID display may be utilized by the user to confirm that they are in fact attempting to initiate a communication session with an intended communication session contact. Thus per step user interface module provides the user with one or more options for providing images or image locations and thus user interface module must determine whether to obtain an image based on one or more user inputs to user interface module . If the user decides to upload an image then user interface module via communication interface and or retrieval module may receive the image from the user in step . If the user decides to specify an image location then user interface module may receive an image locator from the user during step . In step user interface module may port the image locator to retrieval module to retrieve the image at the specified location e.g. a networked social site via communication interface . According to other embodiments CID platform may just accept an image locator and not obtain the image until another point in time. This may be the case when CID platform signals client devices to perform the tasks of retrieving a directory address an image and or other CID information or CID like identifiers from a local memory or from a remote location e.g. CID repository website etc. It is noted that the user may employ any one or more of these approaches for obtaining or specifying images.

In any event processor may be configured to associate the one or more retrieved images or specified image locator s with the one or more directory addresses at step . As such processor may also utilize storage module to store the images or image locators associated with the directory addresses to a suitable memory e.g. memory or repository e.g. CID repository during step . Storage module may according to particular embodiments store images in a compressed format or lower resolution based on one or more storage requirements. In other embodiments storage module may receive image content in a first format and then convert such format into a second format based on one or more storage requirements. While process was described with respect to obtaining and associating images with directory addresses process is equally applicable to obtaining and building associations with other CID information or CID like identifiers. It is also contemplated that the functions and features of CID platform may be assumed by client devices and therefore process is equally applicable to obtaining and building associations via one or more applications and or components executed on or by client devices .

In the illustrated embodiment user interface may include one or more interactive panes such as panes and . In particular embodiments as will be described in more detail below the content of pane may be dynamically updated to display various information related to actions conducted within pane and vice versa. Pane i.e. a navigation pane includes a listing of selectable entries corresponding to one or more configurable parameters or options that may be associated with a subscription service such as those parameters previously mentioned. In other embodiments pane may include a navigation tree an expandable table of contents or FlashMedia presentation of selectable entries. Based on a particular selection within pane pane i.e. a parameter review and modification pane may be populated with appropriate input fields selectable elements e.g. toggle buttons check boxes radio buttons sliders list boxes spinners drop down lists menus toolbars ribbons combo boxes icons etc. output fields e.g. labels tooltips balloon helps status bars progress bars infobars etc. and windows as well as any other suitable interface widget for inputting or otherwise perceiving configurable parameters. In turn actions within pane may affect selectable parameters within pane .

Navigational elements fields e.g. scrollbars and as well as tabs may be provided and configured to indicate the existence of additional entries not displayed but navigably available as well as facilitate interface usability. Accordingly users may browse to these entries via for instance an input interface of a client device such as a cursor control. One or more fixed focus states e.g. border and or distinctive magnification features e.g. color brightness bolding font type text size etc. may be used to convey a currently navigated position or parameter to be entered. In certain embodiments a plurality of graphical elements may be provided to correspond to the one or more options and or configurations of the subscription service to aid usability and thus may be displayed therewith.

In this manner when a user navigates to a desired entry actuation of for instance a CID PROFILE tab or a BUDDY LIST tab may launch corresponding subscription service options and configuration fields within panes and . In other embodiments aural descriptions or effects may be provided when a user navigates for instance a cursor over particular fields of panes and . An UPLOAD IMAGE tab may be provided for users to upload images to CID platform or other suitable repository e.g. CID content repository . A SPECIFY IMAGE LOCATION tab may be provided for users to specify for instance one or more XRIs IP addresses URIs HTTP addresses etc. for obtaining images. While not shown a DOWNLOAD IMAGE tab may be provided for downloading images from CID platform or other suitable location e.g. CID content repository or websites or web portals . Other tabs may be provided for uploading specifying organizing and scheduling other CID information and or CID like identifiers. Additionally interface may be configured to accept verbal commands for entering suitable data into entry fields within pane or making selections within pane . In other embodiments interface may include fields for targeted advertisements fields for service provider logos and any other suitable field for extending the managed CID service to subscribers.

Accordingly tabs and enable users to create configure modify and review one or more CID profiles and CID buddy lists. are respective diagrams of a CID profile and a CID buddy list according to exemplary embodiments. As seen in FIG. A exemplary CID profile provides an association table for provisioning CID information images and or CID like identifiers to individuals contacted via a communication session initiated by user JOHN SMITH. It is contemplated however that CID profile may be utilized to organize CID profiles of more than one user. In exemplary embodiments CID profile includes fields for user name directory address schedule CID image or image locator image preview CID text ringtone and ringback . Other fields may be provided for other CID content such as media or multimedia CID presentations e.g. CID video clips. For example user JOHN SMITH may build CID profile to include an association between directory address 555 444 3333 and image locator WWW.ADDRESS1.COM. As such the association may be scheduled for Mondays through Fridays during the hours of 5 01 PM to 8 59 AM. An image preview may be provided in a corresponding image preview field. The association may further include associations with other CID information such as CID text i.e. MESSAGE 2 and CID like identifiers such as a ringtone i.e. RINGTONE 2 and a ringback i.e. RINGBACK 2 . It is noted that association scheduling may be based on one or more dates times and or events e.g. Birthdays Christmas Hanukah New Years etc. .

Referring to an exemplary CID buddy list is provided. CID buddy list provides an association table for provisioning CID information images and or CID like identifiers to the user when another user or buddy attempts to contact the user via a communication session as well as for provisioning CID information images and or CID like identifiers to the user when the user attempts to contact another user via a communication session. In particular embodiments conflicts between CID profiles and CID buddy lists may be resolved through override allowances. Namely users may predetermine whether to utilize the CID information images and or CID like identifiers within their own CID profile or CID buddy list or to allow another user s CID profile or CID buddy list to override their CID profile or CID buddy list. As shown CID buddy list includes fields for buddy name corresponding directory address scheduling information CID image or image locator image preview CID text ringtone and ringback . Other fields may be provided for other CID content such as media or multimedia CID presentations e.g. CID video clips. For example user JOHN DOE may create and configure CID buddy list to include an association for buddy JANE DOE. As such the association may be established between directory address 123 456 7980 and image IMAGE M.PNG. As such the association may be scheduled for the first of each year which may correspond to Jane s birthday. An image preview may be provided in a corresponding image preview field. The association may further include associations with other CID information such as CID text i.e. WISH JANE A HAPPY BIRTHDAY and CID like identifiers such as a ringtone i.e. BIRTHDAY RINGTONE and a ringback i.e. BIRTHDAY RINGBACK .

According to particular embodiments CID profile and or CID buddy list may be keyed according to user name buddy name directory address or other suitable key value. It is also contemplated that CID profile and CID buddy list may be combined into one association table or may be provided in any other suitable form model or structure for collecting organizing and maintaining the CID information images and or CID like identifiers. As such user interface may be utilized to populate the various fields within CID profile and CID buddy list .

Once the images are retrieved processor causes communication interface to transmit the first image associated with the first directory address along with the first directory address to the user at computing device during establishment of the communication per step . Likewise processor causes communication interface to transmit the second image associated with the second directory address along with the second directory address to the other user at mobile voice station during establishment of the communication at step . In certain embodiments steps may also include retrieval and transmission of other CTD information and or other CID like identifiers. According to particular embodiments storage module may be utilized to compress or decrease the resolution of images before transmission to client devices and or .

Accordingly the transmission s of process may be received by one or more client devices e.g. computing device and mobile voice station and presented to users via for example CID display . are respective flowcharts of processes for presenting managed caller identifications to a calling party and a called party according to exemplary embodiments. For illustrative purposes processes and are described with reference to . It is also noted that the steps of processes and may be performed in any suitable order as well as combined or separated in any suitable manner.

Process corresponds to provisioning the managed CID service of system to a calling party at a client device e.g. mobile voice station according to an exemplary embodiment. It is assumed that the calling party dials the directory address e.g. telephone number of the called party via mobile station . Thus in step mobile voice station transmits an indication to CID platform indicating the initiation of a communication session with a called party at for example voice station . During step mobile voice station receives an image and directory address of the called party from CID platform and in certain embodiments other CID information or CID like identifiers may also be included. Per step mobile voice station presents the image and the directory address of the called party to the calling party via for example CID display . The other CID information and or CID lice identifiers may also be presented which may include presentation via a display of mobile station and or an audio interface of mobile station . Accordingly the calling party may utilize the presentation s to confirm whether they are in fact attempting to initiate a communication session with an intended called party.

Process corresponds to provisioning the managed CID service of system to a called party at a client device e.g. voice station according to an exemplary embodiment. It is assumed that a calling party dials the directory address e.g. telephone number of the called party. As such in step voice station receives an indication of an incoming communication session from the calling party. During step voice station receives an image and directory address of the calling party from CID platform and in certain embodiments other CID information or CID like identifiers may also be included. Per step voice station presents the image and the directory address of the calling party to the called party via for example a suitable display and or audio interface. The other CID information and or CID like identifiers may also be presented. Accordingly the called party may utilize the presentation s to identify the calling party initiating the communication session.

In this manner display may correspond to the display of a calling party while display may correspond to the display of a called party. Display includes name field directory address field and image field for presenting a corresponding name directory address and image of the party that the calling party is attempting to contact. Similarly display includes name field directory address field and image field for presenting a corresponding name directory address and image of the party attempting to contact the called party. According to particular embodiments displays and respectively include corresponding CID text regions and . These regions may be provided to convey information such as CID information or other information. As shown text region reminds the calling party to WISH JANE A HAPPY BIRTHDAY while text region is utilized to wish Jane a happy birthday i.e. HAPPY BIRTHDAY JANE. It is contemplated that other media or multimedia CID presentations may be provided by mobile phones and via displays and as well as transducers and .

The processes described herein for providing caller identification services may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

