---

title: Location-aware instant messaging
abstract: A method includes receiving, at a carrier network provider, a request from a requestor's mobile device to locate an instant messaging (IM) friend from the requestor's IM friends list; authenticating the request for use of location-based services on the carrier network; receiving geographic location coordinates from the requestor's mobile device; adding random error to the geographic location coordinates; sending the request to locate an IM friend and the geographic location coordinates with random error to an IM portal; receiving a list of the requestor's IM friends within a particular region near the geographic location coordinates with random error; and sending to the requestor's mobile device the list of IM friends within the particular region near the geographic location coordinates with random error.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08655960&OS=08655960&RS=08655960
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08655960
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080619
---
Instant messaging IM and chat technologies facilitate near real time text based communication between two or more participants over a network. Mobile instant messaging MIM may transpose the desktop IM experience to practically orient IM for mobile communications. IM and MIM may utilize a friend to friend network. A friend may advise others of their location using text inputs e.g. I am at home but automated location indicators for IM and MIM environments have not been successfully integrated.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also the following detailed description does not limit the invention.

Implementations described herein may provide secure authorized systems and or methods for a requesting subscriber of an instant messaging IM network to be conveniently notified of the geographic location of an IM friend. In one implementation the requesting subscriber may request the approximate location of a particular friend on their IM friend list by selecting a find this friend feature on the IM user interface of the requesting subscriber s mobile device. In another implementation the requesting subscriber may request the approximate location of any nearby friend on their IM friend list by selecting a find nearby friend feature on the IM user interface of the requesting subscriber s mobile device. Selecting either find feature may cause the mobile device to communicate with a location proxy server LPS to determine the current location of the requesting subscriber s mobile device. The mobile device may communicate its location information to an IM infrastructure. The IM infrastructure may provide geographic location information based on the location of the requesting subscriber or based on the particular friend selected by the requesting subscriber. The IM infrastructure may add random error information to a latitude and or longitude associated with the requested geographic location for security purposes.

The term instant messaging IM may refer to real time or near real time communication between two or more people based on typed text that may be conveyed via computing devices over a network. As used herein the term subscriber may include a registered user of an IM service where a requesting subscriber or requestor may include a subscriber initiating a request to locate a friend and a target subscriber or target may include a subscriber whose location is being requested. A requesting device may include a communications device used by a requesting subscriber while a target device may be a communications device used by a target subscriber. As used herein the terms IM friend and friend may refer to one or more a subscribers that have agreed to accept IM communications from another subscriber. As used herein the terms friend subscriber requesting subscriber target subscriber and or user may be broadly interpreted to include a device such as a fixed or mobile communications device and or a user of a device.

Network may include one or more networks including a cellular network a satellite network the Internet a telephone network such as the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a mesh network or another type of network. In an exemplary implementation network may include a combination of networks including a cellular network that uses components for transmitting data to and from requesting device target devices and IM portal IM gateway PDE and or LPS . Such components may include base station antennas not shown that transmit and receive data from communication devices within their vicinity. Such components may also include base stations not shown that connect to the base station antennas and communicate with other devices such as switches and routers not shown in accordance with known techniques.

Requesting devices and target devices may each include any type of conventional device that is able to communicate via a network. For example requesting devices and target devices may include any type of device that is capable of transmitting and receiving data e.g. voice text images multi media data to from network . In an exemplary implementation one or both of requesting devices and target devices may include a mobile terminal. As used herein the term mobile terminal may include a cellular radiotelephone with or without a multi line display a Personal Communications System PCS terminal that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing facsimile and data communications capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA that can include a radiotelephone pager Internet Intranet access Web browser organizer calendar and or a global positioning system GPS receiver a portable game and or music playing device and or a conventional laptop and or palmtop receiver or other appliance that includes a radiotelephone transceiver. Mobile terminals may also be referred to as pervasive computing devices. In another exemplary implementation one or more of requesting devices and target devices may include a desktop computer or other fixed location computing device.

IM portal may include one or more entities that gather process search and or provide information in a manner described herein. For example in one implementation IM portal may provide access to an IM service provider that facilitates IM services over a proprietary interface and or protocol. IM portal may include a variety of infrastructure components to store and disseminate information regarding subscribers of the IM service including for example databases and servers that support location management services.

IM gateway may include a data transfer device such as a gateway a router a switch a firewall a bridge a proxy server a server a device providing domestic switching capabilities or some other type of device that processes and or transfers data. In one implementation IM gateway may operate on data on behalf of a network e.g. a mobile carrier network and may serve as an entrance to another network e.g. an IM portal network .

PDE may include one or more entities that gather process search and or provide information in a manner described herein. For example PDE may include one or more components to determine the position of a mobile terminal e.g. requestor device or one of target devices and or to help a mobile terminal determine its own position. The PDE may for example track the position of global positioning system GPS satellites through a network of stationary GPS receivers distributed across the coverage area of a wireless network. The PDE may determine an approximate location of a mobile terminal based on the signal from a local base station and provide the mobile terminal with the identities and positions of GPS satellites that are likely to be in range of the mobile terminal. PDE may support one or more position determining technologies or algorithms to gather location information.

LPS may collect and provide real time or near real time location information for requesting device and target devices . LPS may provide privacy management and control as well as a platform for common geo services and geo data.

Processor may include a processor s a microprocessor s or processing logic that interprets and executes instructions. Main memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by processor . ROM may include a ROM device or another type of static storage device that stores static information and instructions for use by processor . Storage device may include a magnetic and or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive.

Input device may include one or more mechanisms that permit a user to input information to device such as a keyboard a touch screen a touch pad a mouse a pen voice recognition and or biometric mechanisms etc. Output device may include one or more mechanisms that output information to the user including a display a printer a speaker etc. Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with another device or system via a network such as network .

As described herein device may perform certain operations in response to processor executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as main memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a physical or logical memory device. The software instructions may be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in main memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although shows exemplary components of device in other implementations device may contain fewer or additional components that may compliment and enable an emergency forking notification service. In still other implementations one or more components of device may perform the tasks performed by other components of device .

Carrier network may include one or more radio access networks IM gateway PDE and LPS connected with a core carrier infrastructure . Radio access networks may include a variety of components to facilitate mobile communications such as antennas base transceiver stations mobile switching centers and interfaces with PSTNs and or packet data servicing nodes PDSNs . IM portal may include components necessary to facilitate IM traffic including for example one or more load balancers gateways and databases connected by a core IM infrastructure not shown . IM portal may also include one or more location management servers to manage location based data of for example subscribers to a location aware IM service.

Requestor may submit a request to locate one or more IM friends e.g. a device of another IM subscriber such as one of mobile targets and or fixed location targets . Requestor and mobile targets may communicate with carrier network and more specifically with location based service infrastructure within carrier network such as PDE and LPS and global positioning system GPS satellites to determine a geographic location of each subscriber s mobile device. Also requester mobile targets and fixed location targets may communicate with IM portal to provide location information and to deliver instant messages.

Location information from each of requester mobile targets and fixed location targets may be stored in a memory or database operatively connected with location management servers . In some implementations location information may include for example GPS information or another form of global navigation satellite system GNSS information collected from a mobile communications device. In other implementations location information may be in the form of cellular tower triangulation information collected from a mobile communications device. In still other implementations location information may be in the form of a fixed address or location associated with a wired network connection or IP address. Location information for fixed location devices may be provided by subscribers for example at the time of registering for the location aware IM service.

Although the configuration of shows exemplary components in other implementations fewer or additional components may be used. In other implementations features of certain components may be combined. For example in one implementation one or more functions of PDE and LPS may be combined. Conversely a single component may be implemented as multiple distributed components. For example IM gateway may be a distributed component. Further connections between the various components may be directly made or may be indirectly made via a node a network or a combination thereof.

As shown in a location request for a nearby friend may be received block . For example a base station may receive a request to locate a friend from a subscriber s IM friends list. The location request may be for a particular friend e.g. a single friend selected from the friend list or any friend s within a particular area e.g. a nearby friend . The request for a nearby friend may be generated by an IM subscriber such as a mobile device user or a user of a fixed location device. The requester may establish parameters of what constitutes a nearby friend prior to providing the request. For example in one implementation a requester may program into the requesting device a parameter of a one half kilometer radius of the requestor s location. In another implementation a default parameter for nearby may be included in the requesting device software.

The location request may be authenticated block . For example the requestor s location request may be delivered to location proxy server to make sure that the requestor making the request is an authorized user and that the request is coming from a valid Internet protocol IP address. LPS may communicate with another carrier network component such as an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server to authenticate the location request.

The geographic location of the requestor may be received block . For example the geographic location of the requestor may be provided from the requestor s mobile device to the IM gateway such as IM gateway of the carrier network. The geographic location of the requestor may be determined by for example a GPS system tower triangulation techniques manual association of the requesting device with a known geographic location or other location determining techniques. In one implementation PDE may assist the requesting device in determining its GPS coordinates by providing ephemeris data to the requesting device to allow faster identification of satellites within view of the requesting device.

The requestor s location may be adjusted with random error information block . For example the IM gateway such as IM gateway of the carrier network may add random error information to the latitude and longitude of the requestor s GPS coordinates e.g. between 10 and 500 meters for security privacy purposes. The value of the error information e.g. the distance between a user s actual location and the published location may be limited within some configurable maximum limit. In some implementations the error may be specific to each user. Thus it would not be possible to determine error used by a carrier network for one subscriber based on random error used by that carrier network for another subscriber. In another implementation the same error information should be applied to a subscriber s location when the subscriber is in the same general area. Any variations in error information with respect to a subscriber s location or time may occur gradually. Consistency in error information for the same location may prevent multiple data points being used to zero in on a subscriber s actual location over time. The error information applied at two points is uncorrelated when those points are separated by at least a configurable distance. This would make it difficult to use the error applied by the carrier at one location e.g. a public location to determine a subscriber s actual co ordinates when the subscriber is at a different location e.g a private location so long as those locations are separated by at least the configurable distance.

The requestor s geographic location may be adjusted with random error information using a variety of techniques and or algorithms. In one implementation random error may be added by rounding off more precise location coordinates to a default set of coordinates for a defined region. For example the surface of the earth may be divided into grid lines of latitude and longitude lines. The spacing between the grid lines and thus the size of cells defined by the grid lines may be determined based on for example a configurable maximum error limit. Any time the requestor s location may be identified anywhere within a particular cell the actual coordinates could be altered to a particular set e.g. a default set of location coordinates for that cell.

In another implementation random error may be added as an error function varying with location. For example the surface of earth may be divided by into a series of points on latitude lines. Spacing between the latitude lines and between consecutive points on each latitude line may be determined based on distance over which the error function should be correlated. A random error vector that includes a maximum displacement and a direction may be associated with each point. The random error associated with a point may diminish e.g. exponentially decrease as the distance between the point and user s actual location increases. The random error vector components displacement and direction for each point may be independent of vector components for other points and independent for each user. The displacement component may be a random number between 0 and configurable maximum error limit while the direction component may be a random number between 0 and 360 degrees. For any of the requestor s actual location coordinates generally a few points on one or more of the latitude lines will be within the correlation distance e.g. two points on a latitude line above the actual location and two points on a latitude line below the actual location . The random error to be applied to the requestor s actual location may be calculated by adding the random error vectors associated with the few points within the correlation distance.

In one implementation random error information added to a latitude coordinate may be calculated differently from random error information added to a longitude coordinate. In another implementation random error information added to a distance value may be calculated differently from random error information added to a directional value. In another implementation random error information can be added to location coordinates by the requesting device prior to providing the coordinates to the IM gateway.

Continuing with the requestor s location with the random error information may be sent to an IM portal block . For example the IM gateway may send the randomly altered latitude and longitude coordinates to the IM portal. The IM portal may use the randomly altered latitude and longitude coordinates along with the requestor s parameters to identify the location and or map data of nearby friends and send that information back to the carrier network. Aspects identifying nearby friends are described in more detail with respect to .

The nearby friends location and or map data may be received block . For example IM gateway may receive a list of friends within the requestor s defined radius of the requestor s randomly altered latitude and longitude coordinates. The nearby friends list may include a variety of location information depending on what may be available to the IM portal. For example the information may include descriptive location data e.g. I m at home or Bob s Pizza Palace and or particular latitude and longitude coordinates. Finally the nearby friends location and or map data may be sent to the requester block .

As shown in friends location information with random error information may be received block . For example the IM portal may receive location information from other IM subscribers who use a mobile carrier network. At least some of these IM subscribers may be a friend of a particular requester such as requestor of . Location data for IM subscribers who use a mobile carrier network may be randomly altered prior to being received by the IM portal in a manner similar to that described above with respect to the requestor s location data block of . The location data for IM subscribers who use a mobile carrier network may be combined with other location data that may be available from fixed device users and or manually provided information. The location information may be stored in a memory within the IM portal that can be later retrieved by for example a location management server such as location management server of .

Location information for subscribers of the location aware IM service may be provided in response to a variety of events. For example in one implementation a subscriber s location information may be updated automatically as part of a login process to the IM service. The subscriber may select for example an update location at login check box which can be made available to the subscriber during initial setup of the IM service and or in a location opt in out menu after login. In another implementation if a subscriber has opted into sharing their location with the IM service at some level the subscriber may be able to request a real time update of their current location. This request can initiate action for the subscriber s device to gather current location information and update both the subscriber s device and the IM portal. Subscriber initiated updates may be available to the subscriber via for example an update my location now option. This option can be used to update the requestor s location and to refresh a requestor s smart groups which are described below . In another implementation a subscriber may be allowed to manually set their location and or may be required to enter a physical address. The subscriber s location may remain as the manually entered location until the subscriber logs off the location aware IM service logs on to the location aware IM service from a device with a fixed location e.g. a desktop computer changes the manually set location performs a subscriber initiated update or the location information expires e.g. a subscriber may set a time limit for a manually set location . If the subscriber enters a location that does not physically exist and the subscriber has entered parts of a physical address then the IM portal may set the subscriber s location using the closest accurate information based on what the subscriber has provided e.g. a city state a city a zip code region etc .

Still referring to the requesters location information with random error information may be received block . For example an IM gateway from a carrier network such as IM gateway may send a requestor s mobile location information that has been adjusted with random error information to an IM portal such as IM portal where the location information may be received. The requestor s location information may be used to respond to a location request that may accompany the location information. However the requestor s location information may also be stored in a memory within the IM portal and may be retrieved for use in responding to future location requests by for example a location management server such as location management server of .

A location request for nearby friends may be received block . For example an IM gateway from a carrier network such as IM gateway may send a request to locate nearby friends to an IM portal such as IM portal where the request may be received. The location request may be included together with the requestor s mobile location information that has been adjusted with random error information. In one implementation the location request may include a parameter defining the area for which the requestor s friends should be searched such a particular radius from the present location of the requester . In another implementation the requestor s parameters for a location request may be provided to the IM portal and stored prior to the actual request.

Relative distances of friends locations with random error information may be computed block . For example components in the IM portal may relate the requestor s location information with the available location information of IM friends of the requestor. For those subscribers on a requestor s friends list who have authorized that their location information be made available to the requester components in the IM portal may identify those within the radius parameter of the requestor.

A list of nearby friends with location and or a map data may be generated block . For example IM portal may identify in a list one or more of the requestor s IM friends having a location within the radius parameter provided. In one implementation each friend may be included in the list with for example an address or description of the location of record. In another implementation a graphical map of the requestor s region of interest may be generated with the location of each friend overlaid on the map. This graphical map a friend map may be used to display a current location of the requestor and nearby vicinities. The friend map may also display general locations of the requestor s friends within a specified range.

The location and or a map data may be sent to the carrier network block . For example the IM portal may send the list of nearby friends and or a map showing the friends approximate location to an IM gateway of the carrier network such as for example IM gateway for eventual delivery to the requestor.

In one implementation the IM service provider may make available a get map application programming interface API where the requestor s device can specify a number of feet or miles that represents a width or height of the map and a Boolean flag that would cause a map with at least one friend to be populated on the map. In the event that no friends are found within the radius parameter the IM portal may generate a list or map including the closest of the requestor s friends and may indicate in the map or list that the scale of the search has been modified because no friends were found within the radius parameter. For example the request may return at least one friend whenever the Boolean flag has been set. For example if the requestor s device requests 500 meters for the map range but there is no friend within that range the IM portal can send a zoomed out map to the point that at least at least one friend is displayed in the map. The dimensions of the zoomed out map may be represented to the requestor in some visual format such as a scale indicator on the map. The image sent to the requestor s device may be greater in size than the actual screen dimension as to allow horizontal and or vertical scrolling. A friend details screen available via a soft key may display the relative estimated distance between the requestor and a particular friend.

In another implementation the subscriber may be able to view their current location using the IM interface on the subscriber s device. This location information can be reverse geo coded meaning it may display an address or a physical location name e.g. Metropolitan Grill if the subscriber has manually updated the location of the Metropolitan Grill . Upon queries from other subscribers the IM portal may return the physical location name as well as the physical location address at the same time.

In still another implementation detailed subscriber location information can be available for subscribers near a particular requestor. A find nearby friend option may request that the requestor update his her location information and may display a friend map to the requestor. The scale of the friend map may be a parameter set by the requestor which may be directly associated with the radius parameter for defining a nearby friend group. If there are no friends available in the initial map the IM network servers may return an expanded map with at least one friend on the map as long as the requestor has one friend with location information available and the requestor has set a Boolean flag that causes at least one friend to be returned on the map. When the requestor views the friend map a soft key selection may be available for friend details in which the subscriber can view the location information available from the IM service provider for the friend s being displayed on the friend map. Each friend s location may be displayed as near to inform the requestor that the location information may not be completely accurate.

Requestor device may send an authentication request to LPS line . LPS may authenticate the request and may respond by providing two separate signals. LPS may provide the mobile directory number MDN of requestor device to PDE with an indication of a valid duration of the requesting session line . LPS may also send a signal to requestor device with the IP address of PDE line .

Requestor device may send to PDE e.g. using the IP address provided from LPS the cell site information to locate the general location of requestor device line . Based on the cell site information PDE may send requestor device ephemeris data that can be used to locate appropriate satellites for global positioning line . Requestor device may send a signal to satellite s to request position information line . Satellite s may respond to the signal by providing latitude and longitude coordinates indicating the position of requestor device line . The latitude and longitude coordinates of requestor device may be sent to IM gateway line . The IM gateway may receive the latitude and longitude coordinates of requesting device and may add a random error line . The introduction of random error to the coordinates may make it difficult for individuals with malicious intent to locate the exact location of requestor device because a third party can never be absolutely certain what error has been introduced.

IM gateway may send the randomly altered latitude and longitude coordinates of requesting device to the IM portal line . IM portal may have stored location data about other subscribers. IM portal may query its infrastructure e.g. location management servers to identify the location of any friends that may be associated with requestor device . Friends location data may include for example randomized coordinates from a mobile device locations associated with a fixed IP address manually entered locations and other location data. Assuming that the requestor had been granted permission by one or more friends to see their location information IM portal may identify the location and identity of any friends within a two kilometer radius of the randomly altered latitude and longitude coordinates of requestor device i.e. nearby friends line . The nearby friend information may be sent to IM portal line and then passed on to requestor device line .

Methods and systems described herein may provide the capability of receiving at a carrier network provider a request from a requestor s mobile device to locate an instant messaging IM friend from the requestor s IM friends list. The carrier network provider may authenticate the request for use of location based services on the carrier network and provide information to assist the requestor s mobile device in identifying its location. The carrier network may receive geographic location coordinates from the requestor s mobile device and may add random error information to the geographic location coordinates before sending the request to locate an IM friend and the geographic location coordinates with random error to an IM portal. After processing through the IM portal the carrier network may receive a list of the requestor s IM friends within a particular region near the geographic location coordinates with random error information and may send to the requestor s mobile device the list of IM friends within the particular region near the geographic location coordinates with random error.

The foregoing description provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of systems and methods disclosed herein.

For example while random error information has been shown to be introduced to a requestor s location prior to being sent to an IM portal in other implementations random error may be introduced to the latitude and longitude coordinates of nearby friends after the true coordinates have been used to locate friends within the parameters of the requestor.

As an additional example of a variation in one implementation dynamic friend groups or smart groups may be defined in which a subscriber can customize the parameters that determine specific friends that should be listed under that group at the time the parameter is set. Smart groups can be set up as a geo fence to a specific location. For example any subscriber within five kilometers or miles of a requestor s current location could be a parameter for a particular smart group. There may be a maximum distance for the smart group parameter e.g. 100 kilometers and this maximum can be consistent with the maximum zoom out distance for the friend map if zoom capabilities are available . Subscribers may be presented with a limited number of valid distances to select for the smart group parameter e.g. 1 5 20 or 100 kilometers . A default smart group for example may use one kilometer as the parameter for nearby friends. Criteria for the default smart group and the friend map may be mapped together so that for example when the subscriber sees a friend listed in the default smart group the friend will also appear on the friend map. The radius parameter may be unique to a screen name and may be a parameter stored by the IM service provider to allow for a subscriber to log in from different devices e.g. desktop or mobile and still maintain a persistent nearby friends distance. A subscriber may use a smart group for example to easily send an instant message to an entire group e.g. a multicast or to easily select IM recipients from the smart group.

As another example a subscriber of location aware IM service may be able to manage privacy controls from either a device with a fixed location or a mobile device. A subscriber may be able to dynamically turn on off sharing location awareness completely. Alternatively the subscriber may control which groups may share location information e.g. friends only myself specific contacts and may allow deny specific subscribers groups to view the subscriber s location. The subscriber may be able to set up for example quiet hours e.g. disabling the location awareness feature specific to all friends or individual friends. The subscriber s device may send these settings to the IM service provider and the settings can be stored by the IM service provider along with other privacy preferences. The privacy settings for a subscriber may be stored by the IM service provider and may be provided to a mobile device via a gateway during the subscriber s login. The privacy settings may also be modified by a subscriber from a mobile device while logged in to the location aware IM service.

As still another example awareness of a subscriber s mobile location may be an opt in solution. In one implementation upon first login to the location aware IM service the subscriber can be prompted to opt in to setting up their privacy controls. The subscriber may have the options of for example yes no don t ask again in response to the request to opt in. The subscriber may also have the ability to opt out opt in to sharing location information after the subscriber has completed the login to the location aware IM service. Opting out may override any existing privacy settings and can temporarily disable location sharing with any other subscriber regardless of whether a subscriber s automatic location updates are activated.

As yet another example the location aware IM service may provide a subscriber with the ability to send invitations to their friends to share their location with the subscriber. The subscriber can make the request using at least two different scenarios by a bulk request during privacy setup or by individual requests to particular friends on a subscriber s friends list. When the subscriber sets up privacy for the location aware IM service the subscriber s device can check with the IM service provider to see with which of the friends the subscriber has opted to share his her location during a specific instance . If the subscriber s device discovers that some of these friends are not sharing location awareness with the subscriber then the subscriber s device may prompt the subscriber if they would like to ask these friends to share location with the subscriber. Requests may not be sent for friends that the subscriber has already granted location awareness for during a previous configuration attempt. After initial setup the subscriber can select individual friends and request an invitation to be sent to the individual friend to share locations with them. For example if subscriber A initiates a request to subscriber B then subscriber B receives the option to 1 add subscriber A to the friends list and grant permission to share subscriber B s location and optionally add subscriber A to subscriber B s friends list only if subscriber A is not already on subscriber B s friends list 2 deny the request and 3 block subscriber A. When subscriber B is blocked by subscriber A subscriber B may no longer be able to view subscriber A s location including existing location until subscriber A unblocks subscriber B. Subscriber B may also be given the option to learn more about what location sharing means the ways in which they can share location and how they can download specific software.

As a further example a subscriber s friends list may include a visual identification that makes it easy for the subscriber to see who they are sharing location with as well as who is sharing location with them. The subscriber s device may also be able to determine for example that a friend is in quiet hours status and display that state to the subscriber. For example a single arrow in one direction e.g. next to a presence icon for a particular friend on the subscriber s friends list could represent location being shared by the subscriber but not by the friend a single arrow in the opposite direction e.g. could represent location being shared by the friend but not the subscriber and a double arrow e.g. could represent location being shared both ways. The IM service provider may allow asynchronous update capabilities that allow the subscriber s device to determine which friends are currently sharing location with the subscriber.

Also while series of blocks have been described with regard to the flowcharts of and the order of the blocks may differ in other implementations. Further non dependent acts may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that embodiments as described herein may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement embodiments described herein is not limiting of the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiments were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware may be designed to implement the embodiments based on the description herein.

Further certain implementations described herein may be implemented as logic that performs one or more functions. This logic may include hardware such as a processor microprocessor an application specific integrated circuit or a field programmable gate array or a combination of hardware and software.

It should be emphasized that the term comprises comprising when used in this specification is taken to specify the presence of stated features integers steps or components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps components or groups thereof.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the invention. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification.

No element act or instruction used in the description of the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on as used herein is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

