---

title: Large force and displacement piezoelectric MEMS lateral actuation
abstract: A piezoelectric microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) actuator includes a silicon substrate; an actuator beam comprising a first end region connected to the silicon substrate and a second end region connected to a mechanically compliant spring assembly; a first electrode over the silicon substrate; a piezoelectric layer above the first electrode; a second electrode over the piezoelectric layer; a conductive top structural layer above the second electrode, wherein a center half of the actuator beam is configured as a positive deflection region, and wherein both the first electrode and the second electrode supply voltage to both positive and negative deflection regions of the actuator beam.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07876026&OS=07876026&RS=07876026
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07876026
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080821
---
The embodiments described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The embodiments herein generally relate to microelectromechanical systems MEMS and more particularly to piezoelectric MEMS actuators.

MEMS piezoelectric actuators are the basic building blocks for complex electromechanical systems such as radio frequency RF MEMS optical switching robotics and many more applications. Generally piezoelectric MEMS actuators significantly outperform the present standard electrostatic MEMS actuators at significantly smaller sizes power consumption actuation voltages and displacement ranges. Moreover piezoelectric MEMS devices typically permit extremely large displacements approximately hundreds to thousands of microns at very low voltages.

Conventional piezoelectric MEMS actuators are positive vertical unimorph actuators as depicted in . This MEMS technology an adaptation of a decades old macro scale design has been around for over a decade. At the macro scale a large number of piezoelectric actuator designs have been developed and utilized. Many designs are based upon or are derivatives of the following basic technologies unimorph and bimorph benders stack actuators externally frequency leveraged actuators like the Inchworm actuators and externally kinematically leveraged actuators like the Cymbal Moonie flextensional actuator designs. These macro scale actuators can typically be utilized in an arbitrary orientation depending largely on the application. However integrated MEMS devices do not share this characteristic and often the degree of freedom of the actuator has a dramatic impact on its design. For example the dominant MEMS transduction technology electrostatic MEMS utilizes two very different designs for out of plane and in plane actuation. Interdigitated comb drive actuators provide excellent capability for in plane operation while parallel plate designs are typically employed for out of plane operation. The differences in these designs are dramatic. Only recently have attempts been made to design in plane or lateral deflecting piezoelectric MEMS actuators.

A conventional piezoelectric unimorph actuator is depicted in . The actuator bends due to a voltage applied across the electrodes the piezoelectric effect and a particular mechanical asymmetry of the structure of the actuator relative to the structure s piezoelectric layer . The piezoelectric unimorph actuator bends due to a piezoelectrically induced bending moment acting about the neutral plane or planes . Fundamentally there are two parameters that dictate the direction of motion of a piezoelectric cantilevered unimorph actuator the sense of the strain within the piezoelectric layer sense of piezoelectric equivalent force component of the bending moment and the relative position of the geometric mid plane of the piezoelectric layer with respect to the neutral plane or axis of the actuator sense of the moment arm of the bending moment . For out of plane x y actuators the relevant neutral plane is the x y neutral plane. A structural dielectric layer provides the necessary asymmetry for a non zero moment. Moreover a substrate not shown may be used to anchor one end of the actuator .

As illustrated in for any three dimensional object there are three orthogonal neutral planes axis x y x z and y z. The neutral plane axis is the location within the structure where there is equal contribution to structural stiffness resistance to deformation on either side of the plane axis and under pure bending is the location of zero strain along the axis normal to this plane. If the strain field of the piezoelectric layer is asymmetric about any of these neutral planes axis then it will contribute a component of a bending moment that acts upon the composite structure. For a vertical piezoelectric unimorph actuator the piezoelectric strain field should be symmetric about the x z and y z neutral planes axis . It is the x y neutral plane axis that is relevant.

Piezoelectric materials deform strain when in the presence of an applied electric field. This behavior is due to the electric field induced atomic displacements within the crystalline unit cell of a piezoelectric material . These displacements cause the geometric distortion of the unit cell and consequently of the piezoelectric material on the macroscopic scale as well. depict the ferroelectric unit cell of Lead Zirconate Titanate PZT . illustrates the high temperature non piezoelectric form of PZT with a cubic unit cell. depicts the low temperature piezoelectric form of PZT with a tetragonal unit cell. The central atom of the tetragonal unit cell either Ti or Zr is displaced from the center of the unit cell. This vertical displacement represents the poled state of the material and is conditioned with an applied electric field. Multiple orientations or phases are possible for PZT for simplicity only the tetragonal phase is illustrated.

In atoms are Pb atoms are O and the central atom is either Zr or Ti which is typically in a 52 48 compositional ratio. When an electric field is applied to the material that displaces the central atom in the positive direction arrow the tetragonal unit cell is distorted further and a net elongation along the long axis relative to the poled configuration occurs. When small electric fields are applied that displaces the central atom in the negative direction the tetragonal unit cell contracts along the long axis . Once the electric field exceeds the coercive filed of the material the central atom continues to displace in the downward direction arrow and the tetragonal unit cell experiences a net elongation again along the long axis .

This high field condition is rarely encountered in bulk ferroelectric piezoelectric materials because the material thicknesses are so large. The behavior of piezoelectrics at large fields is not commonly understood in the MEMS community. However for MEMS ferroelectric piezoelectric actuators this condition is typically encountered at small voltages 2 3V . The in plane contraction of the piezoelectric material at large fields gives a negative sense to the piezoelectric equivalent force. The standard composite stack gives a positive sense of the moment arm. At small fields with the appropriate polarity a standard piezoelectric MEMS actuator will deflect downward. However as the voltage increases to a value near the coercive field the actuator will switch directions and will then bend upward. As the field strength is increased further the actuator will continue to bend upward. If the opposite polarity voltage is applied the actuator will bend downward for small voltages less than the coercive field. Again as the voltage reaches a value greater than the coercive field the actuator bends upward. Therefore the standard piezoelectric MEMS unimorph actuator is typically unable to attain large negative into the plane deflections.

Only recently have attempts been made to design in plane or lateral deflecting piezoelectric MEMS actuators recurve actuator technology developed by Ervin and Brei Ervin et al. Recurve Piezoelectric Strain Amplifying Actuator Architecture IEEE ASME Transactions on Mechatronics Vol. 3 293 301 1998 the complete disclosure of which in its entirety is herein incorporated by reference This actuator design can achieve large displacements but is limited to small force generation per unit area. J. Cheong developed MEMS flextensional actuators based on a buckled beam design however this approach is severely limited to very small deflections Cheong J. Design fabrication modeling and experimental testing of a piezoelectric flextensional microactuator Ph.D. thesis Department of Mechanical and Nuclear Engineering Penn State University 2005 the complete disclosure of which in its entirety is herein incorporated by reference . N. Conway and Kim have developed true in plane piezoelectric MEMS actuators using a stroke amplification scheme. Conway et al. Large Strain Piezoelectric In Plane Micro Actuator IEEE MEMS 2004 the complete disclosure of which in its entirety is herein incorporated by reference . This design is intended to be flextensional utilizing the in plane strain of the piezoelectric material and a kinematic mechanism to provide limited amplification of this naturally small deflection. The design features a full top electrode and is intended to suppress bending action of the device altogether. These existing lateral piezoelectric MEMS actuators have utilized undesirable methods for increasing piezoelectric actuator stroke length either in terms of lost work efficiency or in chip area required to leverage the basic actuation stroke and are generally subject to variation in performance due to residual stress deformation.

There are a number of applications for lateral piezoelectric MEMS actuators including RF MEMS and millimeter scale robotics that require greater deflection force and work per unit area than the current state of the art can provide. RF MEMS devices can benefit from greater contact forces and free displacements from lateral piezoelectric MEMS actuators and greater deflection force and work per unit area per unit power actuators can enable millimeter scale robotics. Therefore there exists a need for lateral deflecting piezoelectric MEMS actuators with improved deflection force and work per unit area performance.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides a piezoelectric MEMS actuator that produces piezoelectric actuation bending moments to generate lateral actuator displacements the actuator comprising an actuator beam comprising oppositely positioned distal ends a silicon substrate having a first thickness and attached to one of the distal ends a dielectric layer having a second thickness less than the first thickness and positioned above the silicon substrate a first electrode having a third thickness less than the first thickness and positioned above the dielectric layer a piezoelectric layer having a fourth thickness greater than the second and third thicknesses and positioned above the first electrode a second electrode having a fifth thickness substantially equal to or less than the third thickness and positioned above the piezoelectric layer and a conductive structural layer having a sixth thickness greater than the third thickness and positioned above the second electrode wherein a central region of the actuator beam produces a first piezoelectric actuation bending moment in a first direction wherein the distal ends produce a second piezoelectric actuation bending moment equal to the first piezoelectric bending moment and in a second direction equal and opposite to the first direction wherein the first and second piezoelectric actuation bending moments generate lateral displacements of the actuator beam and wherein the actuator beam comprises positive and negative deflection regions.

The actuator may further comprise a mechanically compliant spring assembly and a secondary spring component parallel to a longitudinal axis of the actuator beam wherein the secondary spring component couples the actuator beam to the mechanically compliant spring assembly wherein the compliant spring assembly allows for large lateral displacements of the actuator beam and supports vertical loads imposed upon a combination of the actuator beam and the compliant spring assembly wherein a first end of the actuator beam is coupled to the silicon substrate and wherein the second end of the actuator beam is coupled to the mechanically compliant spring assembly.

The actuator may further comprise a mechanically compliant spring assembly comprising a cantilever spring oriented perpendicular to the actuator beam and a secondary spring component parallel to a longitudinal axis of the actuator beam wherein the secondary spring component couples the actuator beam to the mechanically compliant spring assembly wherein a first end of the actuator beam is coupled to the silicon substrate and wherein a second end of the actuator beam is coupled to the mechanically compliant spring assembly. Moreover the actuator may further comprise a first curved flexural beam comprising a pair of ends and a second curved flexural beam comprising a pair of ends wherein the actuator beam is coupled to both ends of each of the first curved flexural beam and the second curved flexural beam and wherein one of the first curved flexural beam and the second curved flexural beam is coupled to the silicon substrate at a midpoint of the flexural beam.

Additionally the actuator may further comprise a plurality of actuator beams connected in parallel. Also the actuator may further comprise a plurality of actuator beams connected in series and a rigid support frame attached to an outer one of the plurality of actuator beams wherein a centrally located one of the actuator beams comprises a first attachment connecting to a middle of the rigid support frame a second attachment to the mechanically compliant spring assembly and electrode traces connected to the first and second electrodes. Preferably both the first electrode and the second electrode supply a voltage to both positive and negative deflection regions of the actuator beam.

Another embodiment provides a method of producing lateral displacements in a piezoelectric MEMS actuator the actuator comprising a silicon substrate an actuator beam comprising a first end region connected to the silicon substrate and a second end region connected to a mechanically compliant spring assembly a first electrode over the silicon substrate a piezoelectric layer above the first electrode a second electrode over the piezoelectric layer a conductive top structural layer above the second electrode wherein a center section of the actuator beam is configured as a positive or negative deflection region and wherein the end regions of the actuator beam are configured as the opposite deflection regions of the center section the method comprising applying a voltage between the first electrode and the second electrode producing a vertical displacement through the actuator beam in the positive and negative deflection regions and producing a lateral displacement using the mechanically compliant spring assembly in conjunction with the vertical displacement. Preferably both the first electrode and the second electrode supply voltage to both positive and negative deflection regions of the actuator beam.

The method may further comprise coupling a secondary spring component parallel to a longitudinal axis of the actuator beam wherein the secondary spring component couples the actuator beam and the mechanically compliant spring assembly. Also the mechanically compliant spring assembly comprises a cantilever spring oriented perpendicular to the actuator beam and wherein the method further comprises coupling a secondary spring component parallel to a longitudinal axis of the actuator beam wherein the secondary spring component is coupled to the actuator beam and the mechanically compliant spring assembly. Moreover the method may further comprise coupling the actuator beam to both ends of each of a first curved flexural beam and a second curved flexural beam wherein one of the first curved flexural beam and second curved flexural beam is coupled to the silicon substrate. Additionally the method may further comprise operatively connecting a plurality of actuator beams in parallel. The method may also further comprise configuring a plurality of actuator beams in series.

Another embodiment provides a method of fabricating a MEMS actuator beam comprising oppositely positioned distal ends and capable of producing piezoelectric actuation bending moments to generate lateral actuator displacements the method comprising attaching a silicon substrate having a first thickness to one of the distal ends positioning a dielectric layer having a second thickness less than the first thickness above the silicon substrate forming a first electrode having a third thickness less than the first thickness above the dielectric layer positioning a piezoelectric layer having a fourth thickness greater than the second or third thicknesses above the first electrode forming a second electrode having a fifth thickness substantially equal to or less than the third thickness and positioned above the piezoelectric layer and positioning a conductive structural layer having a sixth thickness greater than the third thickness above the second electrode wherein a central region of the actuator beam produces a first piezoelectric actuation bending moment in a first direction wherein the distal ends produce a second piezoelectric actuation bending moment equal to the first piezoelectric bending moment and in a second direction equal and opposite to the first direction wherein the first and second piezoelectric actuation bending moments generate lateral displacements of the actuator beam wherein the actuator beam comprises positive and negative deflection regions and wherein both the first electrode and the second electrode supply a voltage to both positive and negative deflection regions of the actuator beam.

The method may further comprise providing a mechanically compliant spring assembly and positioning a secondary spring component parallel to a longitudinal axis of the actuator beam wherein the secondary spring component couples the actuator beam to the mechanically compliant spring assembly wherein the compliant spring assembly is configured to support vertical loads imposed upon a combination of the actuator beam and the compliant spring assembly wherein a first end of the actuator beam is coupled to the silicon substrate and wherein the second end of the actuator beam is coupled to the mechanically compliant spring assembly. Also the method may further comprise providing a mechanically compliant spring assembly comprising a cantilever spring oriented perpendicular to the actuator beam and positioning a secondary spring component parallel to a longitudinal axis of the actuator beam wherein the secondary spring component couples the actuator beam to the mechanically compliant spring assembly wherein a first end of the actuator beam is coupled to the silicon substrate and wherein a second end of the actuator beam is coupled to the mechanically compliant spring assembly.

Also the method may further comprise providing a first curved flexural beam comprising a pair of ends and providing a second curved flexural beam comprising a pair of ends wherein the actuator beam is coupled to both ends of each of the first curved flexural beam and the second curved flexural beam and wherein one of the first curved flexural beam and the second curved flexural beam is coupled to the silicon substrate at a midpoint of the flexural beam. Additionally the method may further comprise connecting a plurality of actuator beams in parallel. Moreover the method may further comprise connecting a plurality of actuator beams in series and attaching a rigid support frame to an outer one of the plurality of actuator beams wherein a centrally located one of the actuator beams comprises a first attachment connecting to a middle of the rigid support frame a second attachment to the mechanically compliant spring assembly and electrode traces connected to the first and second electrodes.

Also the method may further comprise fabricating a piezoelectric lateral actuator with an integrated mechanically compliant spring assembly wherein the fabricating process comprises forming a passivation layer on the vertical and top sides of the compliant spring assembly and positioning openings in the passivation layer on the vertical surfaces of the longitudinal edges of the actuator beam to allow removal of the silicon substrate. Furthermore the fabricating process may further comprise positioning the openings at a distance greater than the sum of the width of the passivation layer and half the width of the actuator beam from the connection between the actuator beam and the mechanically compliant spring assembly. In one embodiment the passivation layer comprises a photodefineable material. In another embodiment the passivation layer comprises a material resistant to the process used to remove the silicon substrate from the actuator beam.

Another aspect of the embodiments herein provides a piezoelectric MEMS actuator that produces piezoelectric actuation bending moments to generate lateral actuator displacements the actuator comprising an actuator beam comprising oppositely positioned distal ends a silicon substrate having a first thickness and attached to one of the distal ends a first dielectric layer having a second thickness less than the first thickness and positioned above the silicon substrate a mechanically compliant spring layer having a third thickness less than the first thickness and positioned above the first dielectric layer a second dielectric layer having a fourth thickness less than the first thickness and positioned above the mechanically compliant spring layer a first electrode having a fifth thickness less than the first thickness and positioned above the second dielectric layer a piezoelectric layer having a sixth thickness greater than the fourth and fifth thicknesses and positioned above the first electrode a second electrode having a seventh thickness substantially equal to or less than the fifth thickness and positioned above the piezoelectric layer and a conductive structural layer having an eighth thickness greater than the fifth thickness and positioned above the second electrode wherein a central region of the actuator beam produces a first piezoelectric actuation bending moment in a first direction wherein the distal ends produce a second piezoelectric actuation bending moment equal to the first piezoelectric bending moment and in a second direction equal and opposite to the first direction wherein the first and second piezoelectric actuation bending moments generate lateral displacements of the actuator beam and wherein the actuator beam comprises positive and negative deflection regions. Moreover the actuator comprises a piezoelectric lateral actuator with at least one integrated mechanically compliant spring assembly wherein the actuator is fabricated by forming a passivation layer on the vertical and top sides of the compliant spring layer and the vertical sides of first dielectric layer on the mechanically compliant spring assembly and positioning openings in the passivation layer on the vertical surfaces of the longitudinal edges of the actuator beam to allow removal of the compliant spring layer and the silicon substrate beneath the actuator beam.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments herein provide a piezoelectric MEMS actuator that can produce significant lateral displacement and force by configuring the central section of a piezoelectric MEMS beam as a positive or negative deflection actuator and the remaining sections of the MEMS beam as the opposite deflection actuators Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

The top electrode layer and the top structural layer if conductive are offset in the x y plane from the edge of the actuator the x z exposed faces of the piezoelectric layer by a distance of greater than approximately three microns. This allows the application of large electric fields between the electrode layers without the risk of electrical breakdown of the air between the top and bottom electrode layers by increasing the effective distance between them.

The top electrode trace of that is not on the actuator beam and is located on the substrate of resides on the etched structural dielectric layer . Although the traces and bond pads could more easily be fabricated on the piezoelectric layer they are placed on the silicon dioxide layer as opposed to the PZT layer to minimize capacitance and thus minimize the power consumption of the actuator . Any traces or bond pads on the PZT layer would necessarily increase the capacitance without enhancing the performance of the actuator as any PZT region necessarily is situated upon the bottom electrode layer forming a capacitor. As the power consumption of the actuator is proportional to the capacitance of the actuator it is desirable to remove the PZT layer and bottom electrode layer from beneath the trace and bond pad locations. For this reason the top electrode trace is comprised of the top structural layer conductor material and resides directly on the etched structural dielectric layer on the substrate .

As can be seen in shorting of the top and bottom electrodes is prevented by a dielectric passivation feature that is constructed on the exposed bottom electrode Piezo top electrode sidewall at the location where the top structural layer conductive descends from the top electrode region to the top electrode trace . As shown in there is a silicon dioxide layer beneath the piezoelectric actuator beam . This layer is fixed to the substrate and to the spring attachment location at the same location as the actuator beam . The compliant spring assembly is best created by using a SOI silicon on insulator substrate to create single crystal silicon structural components. Due to the preferred release process XeF the silicon spring assembly utilizes etch passivation beneath those silicon features. The buried oxide layer of the SOI substrate allows for such a feature. This layer is designed to be very thin and typically possesses some level of residual stress.

The connection between the actuator beam and the spring assembly is made by means of an additional spring component that is parallel to the longitudinal axis of the actuator beam and is attached preferably to the middle of the actuator beam . This spring member provides flexibility to the connection in the width dimension of the actuator beam and minimizes the bending stiffness of the spring assembly at the attachment location thereby increasing the performance of the actuator . The flexibility in the width dimension is advantageous in spring assembly configurations that utilize pseudo rotational motion of the spring assembly about a single anchor point i.e. cantilever configurations . The width of the spring is approximately five microns and the length of the spring depends largely upon the configuration of the remainder of the actuator and spring assembly but is approximately on the order of 100 microns. The region between the spring and the end of the actuator beam is comprised of a non actuated no top electrode beam section of the same width as the actuator beam . This region ensures that rigid attachment of the actuator beam to the spring assembly is not sensitive to process variability in the release etch time. Without this region an over etch could potentially leave the connection between the spring assembly and the actuator beam as the thin spring attachment section comprised only of the piezoelectric composite materials. The actuator would not be mechanically constrained along the full width of that end of the actuator beam . This would lead to poor performance of the actuator . The length of region is preferably approximately 40 microns but depends on the width of the actuator beam . As can be seen in the XeFrelease etch yields the characteristic curved circular etch profile of an isotropic etch process in the etched device silicon layer substrate . Regions of the substrate adjacent to the actuator and the spring assembly are removed to allow unrestricted motion of the actuator .

The overall configuration of the actuator and spring assembly is subject to multiple configurations. illustrates the general configuration. To provide large displacements with the embodiments herein mechanical advantage configurations are employed with the compliant spring assembly that couples to the actuator as indicated in .

The basic configuration utilizes a large force and displacement piezoelectric MEMS lateral actuator to produce a small lateral displacement at the end of a short cantilever spring oriented perpendicular to the actuator . This small lateral displacement translates to a larger angular displacement as the cantilever spring beam length shortens. An optimal configuration exists for the length of this spring to produce the largest attainable angular displacement. The optimal configuration is a function of the actuator and spring geometry the material properties and actuation voltage. The large angular displacement at the free end of the cantilever spring can produce very large lateral translational displacements by simply lengthening the section of the spring as shown in .

The embodiments herein also allow for a modification to the well known Moonie and Cymbal macro piezoelectric actuator configurations. Whereas these designs utilize purely extensional macro scale piezoelectric stack actuators the embodiments herein utilize the large force and displacement piezoelectric MEMS lateral actuator a unimorph bender technology to provide the axial motion that is amplified by the configuration. As shown in the actuator is situated between two slightly curved flexural beams and is attached at both ends to each flexural beam . One of these flexural beams is then fixed to the substrate . The electrode traces for the top and bottom electrodes are located on flexural beam and connect to the substrate and any requisite on substrate traces or electrode contacts bond pads . Like the macro scale designs these MEMS variants may also be combined in series and parallel in a similar fashion. The upwards arrow in indicates the direction of motion.

To enhance the actuation force capability of the device a plurality the piezoelectric actuator beams may be combined in parallel to increase actuation force production as in . This configuration allows for beam like behavior as two dimensional plate like behavior can diminish actuator performance. Secondly it also minimizes the release etch time a desirable manufacturing attribute required to remove the substrate material beneath the actuators . To enhance the actuation displacement capability the actuators may also be combined in series as indicated in . In the most basic configuration two piezoelectric actuator beams flank a third actuator beam . These outer actuator beams are attached by a rigid support frame . This rigid support frame is shaped generally in a U shape to minimize the footprint of the device . The middle actuator beam attaches to the middle of the rigid support frame . This middle actuator beam then attaches to the compliant spring assembly by any of the previously identified mechanisms above. The electrode traces of the middle actuator are divided by top and bottom electrodes. Each of these contact the respective top or bottom electrode of the flanking actuators by means of traces located on the connection beam spring of and the U shaped rigid support frame . Moreover in the actuator provides the top electrode trace and the actuator provides the bottom electrode trace. Furthermore multiple configurations for this embodiment are possible.

There are many possible fabrication processes which may be utilized for manufacturing the embodiments herein. In this regard the steps listed below are not exclusive as other materials are possible alternatives as welt. Furthermore the thicknesses given below are approximate and may be changed to suit design optimization. depict the fabrication process according to an embodiment herein. illustrates a cross sectional view and illustrates an orthogonal view of the starting piezoelectric wafer stack . The starting material and substrate is a single crystal silicon on insulator SOI wafer. Next a plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD or thermal SiOlayer approximately 1 200 is deposited. The stack then undergoes a 700 C. Natmosphere 60 second annealing process. After a layer of silicon and a structural dielectric layer are formed DC sputtered Ti Pt is deposited as the bottom electrode material approximately 200 550 . After this sol gel or sputtered thin film PZT layer is deposited approximately 5 000 .

The embodiments herein utilize the negative deflection attributes of the negative vertical deflection piezoelectric MEMS actuators in conjunction with the positive deflection attributes of the conventional vertical piezoelectric MEMS actuator. In this respect the embodiments herein may be classified as unimorph bender devices. The central section of a piezoelectric MEMS actuator beam is configured as a positive or negative deflection actuator and the remaining sections of the beam are configured as the opposite deflection actuators. One of these ends is anchored to the substrate and the other is attached to a mechanically compliant spring assembly . This spring assembly is configured to possess a large out of plane stiffness and a small lateral in plane stiffness. The actuator has a single set of top and bottom electrodes that supply both the negative and positive deflection regions of the actuator with the same actuation voltage signal. When a voltage is applied between the top and bottom electrodes the piezoelectric thin film contracts in plane. Given the piezoelectric moment arms due to the composition of the composite stack within the negative and positive deflection regions the piezoelectric actuation moments attempt to bend the ends of the beam down while attempting to bend the central section of the beam upward. The actuator beam deflects vertically in the typical manner in which a clamped clamped beam deforms however as the right end of the beam is attached to a compliant spring assembly the beam experiences an axial lateral displacement. This is due to the preservation of the actuator beam length with the vertical displacement. As the vertical displacement becomes greater the axial lateral displacement also increases. This nonlinear axial displacement provides for lateral piezoelectric MEMS actuation capability.

The compliant spring assembly generally performs multiple tasks. Large spring constants K K of the spring ensures that the end of the actuator that is connected to the spring assembly is confined to uniaxial translational motion. Moreover large K Kof the spring ensures the mitigation of residual stress deformation of the piezoelectric actuator beam a common problem with conventional piezoelectric MEMS devices. The springs also provide axial compliance to the actuator thereby enabling large axial lateral deflections. The large Kz out of plane stiffness of the spring assembly also allows the actuator and spring assembly to support large out of plane external loads. Also the springs provide mechanical advantage to trade actuation force for displacement and couple the actuator to the intended mechanism to be acted upon.

The embodiments herein enable large force and or large lateral deflections for piezoelectric actuators particularly MEMS allow for enhanced actuator performance allow for relaxation of process tolerances for spring features provide orders of magnitude greater blocked force performance per unit area over current piezoelectric lateral actuator configurations. Furthermore the embodiments herein are minimally sensitive to residual stress deformation of the piezoelectric actuator . Moreover the SOI substrate compatibility of the process allows for the coupling of complex and mechanically robust compliant mechanisms to the high performance actuators . Additionally the embodiments herein enable the integration of large force and or lateral deflection piezoelectric MEMS actuators positive and negative vertical piezoelectric MEMS actuators electro thermal MEMS devices and comb drive electrostatic MEMS devices.

Any induced strain actuation mechanism that can be configured in the actuator to mimic the strain response of the piezoelectric device described in embodiments disclosed herein will provide for an effective actuator . Using the embodiments herein with bulk piezoelectric material is also possible with compensation for the linear electric field condition. illustrates a configuration for a macro scale bulk piezoelectric material device according to an embodiment herein.

While the embodiments herein exploit material property opportunities encountered in the MEMS scale regime the device is also applicable to other size scales and actuation mechanisms with advantages. Any induced strain actuation mechanism that can be configured in the device to mimic the strain response of the piezoelectric device will provide for an effective actuator . The embodiments herein provide an in plane actuator that obtains large displacements and forces at the low power consumption and which may be applicable in many military and civilian devices including millimeter scale robotic devices.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

