---

title: Providing ubiquitous wireless connectivity and a marketplace for exchanging wireless connectivity using a connectivity exchange
abstract: Various implementations are described herein for using a connectivity exchange to provide ubiquitous wireless connectivity and a marketplace for exchanging wireless connectivity. Wireless service providers join the connectivity exchange and enable users to access the Internet using their wireless connectivity via the connectivity exchange. Users are authenticated via the exchange and rates and terms for users to access the Internet are negotiated. General service providers provide services via the exchange.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09049595&OS=09049595&RS=09049595
owner: MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING, LLC
number: 09049595
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081211
---
U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 332 365 filed Dec. 11 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 683 073 granted on Mar. 25 2014 entitled PARTICIPATING WITH AND ACCESSING A CONNECTIVITY EXCHANGE that is assigned to the assignee of the present patent application is related to the present patent application and is hereby incorporated by reference.

People typically connect their wireless computing devices to the Internet via wireless hotspots. They create an account recognized by the wireless hotspot and pay for wireless connectivity using a credit card. Because of increasing demand for wireless connectivity the number of wireless vendors offering wireless service has increased. Further improvements in hardware and software have led to the development of technologies such as WiMaX that provide users with alternate wireless transmission protocols to wirelessly access the Internet. However the process that people follow to use these technologies remains unimproved.

The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosure to provide a basic understanding to the reader. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure and it does not identify key critical elements of the invention or delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts disclosed herein in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Described herein are implementations that provide users with ubiquitous wireless connectivity to the Internet using a connectivity exchange exchange . The exchange is a service that allows users to seamlessly access the Internet through various wireless service providers WSPs by enabling WSPs to authenticate the users using user accounts at one or more account service providers ASPs associated with the users or enabling users to agree to terms and conditions of WSPs and or general service providers GSPs to allow access. Using a computing device users access the Internet via the exchange by providing user credentials to WSPs offering wireless connectivity. Examples of WSPs include but are not limited to T Mobile Hotspots Verizon cell phone networks Clearwire coverage areas and so forth. WSPs authenticate users via the exchange and grant users access to the Internet. WSPs may also authenticate users directly with their account providers. Computing devices that include one or more communication modules for transmitting on one or more wireless transmission protocols may seamlessly transition between WSPs that offer wireless connectivity via different wireless transmission protocols. Further in the below described implementations the exchange allows WSPs ASPs and GSPs collectively referred to as service providers to exchange feature sets and negotiate rates for accessing the Internet based on features sets. An ASP is a type of GSP. Rates may be pre negotiated or dynamically negotiated. Service providers and or users may negotiate rates directly with each other via the exchange or using variations of the like. Rates may include cost for the service the exchange of services and or the acceptance of terms for usage such as agreeing to advertising logging of usage and so forth.

Many of the attendant features will be readily appreciated as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description considered in connection with the accompanying drawings.

The detailed description below describes implementations for providing users with ubiquitous wireless connectivity using an exchange. The exchange and or WSPs grant users access to the Internet by authenticating credentials provided by the users. These credentials may be provided by the user or by a service for storing and retrieving them. Examples of user credentials include but are not limited to any one or more or combinations of usernames and passwords smartcards infocards credit card numbers pin numbers telephone numbers fingerprints retinas and so forth. Further these user credentials may be stored in any appropriate manner including on a local computing device on a remote computing device or on external storage medium such as a flash drive and the like.

The exchange authenticates and grants users access to the Internet by using user credentials that correspond to a user account associated with the exchange and or service providers. For example the exchange may allow a user to create an exchange user account managed by the exchange so that a WSP may authenticate the user. The exchange user account may include username password credit card information home address employment information telephone numbers email addresses and so forth. This information may be accessed for negotiating rates. Users may also link other user accounts associated with different services to their exchange user accounts. Examples of user accounts that may be linked to exchange user accounts include but are not limited to social networking accounts email accounts and so forth.

The exchange may also authenticate a user using a user account associated with an ASP. Note that an ASP is a type of GSP. An ASP s membership in the exchange enables its users who have ASP accounts and not necessarily an exchange administered user account to access the Internet via the exchange. For example ASPs may allow their users to be authenticated via the exchange by enabling the exchange to communicate with their directory services such as Microsoft Active Directory and the like. Consider a corporation that would like its employees to have ubiquitous wireless connectivity during business travel or a university that would like its students to have ubiquitous wireless connectivity on and off campus and so forth.

For users who do not have an ASP that negotiates rates on their behalf the WSP may not require authentication if the users agree to other terms and or conditions. For example users may choose to accept an offer by a GSP or a WSP to pay for their Internet connection in return for accepting terms of usage including but not limited to advertising tracking their usage and so forth.

To service many users the exchange includes one or more WSPs. WSPs provide wireless connectivity for users and initiate authentication of users via the exchange. Wireless connectivity may be provided using one or more wireless transmission protocols including but not limited to IEEE 802.11 WiMaX IEEE 802.16 Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA and so forth. WSPs may use local authentication services such as Captive Portal 802.1x RADIUS Remote Authentication Dial In User Service and so forth for authenticating users locally before sending requests to the exchange. Examples of WSPs include but are not limited to cell phone companies providing users access to the Internet via a cell phone network individuals providing users access to the Internet via an 802.11 complaint wireless router connected to either a DSL Digital Subscriber Line connection or cable modem connection and so forth. For example Verizon may be a WSP providing wireless connectivity to users via its cell phone network. Further Verizon may be an ASP and enable Verizon employees to have access to the exchange via their Verizon employee accounts user accounts .

The exchange authenticates service providers. For example when a WSP joins the exchange it receives a connectivity exchange certificate exchange certificate . Requests that are sent to the exchange are validated using the exchange certificate to determine if requestors are valid members of the exchange. A successful validation indicates that the requesting party is a valid member of the exchange. GSPs and ASPs may also receive an exchange certificate when they join the exchange. Note that the exchange may use various types of authentication such as protocols x.509 certificates smart cards cryptographic devices software modules running on the WSP text files and so forth. Further the exchange may use one or more different types of authentication.

WSPs also receive a connectivity exchange identifier exchange identifier for broadcasting to user computing devices via a wireless access point. Exchange identifiers include but are not limited to SSIDs Service Set Identifiers IP Internet Protocol addresses MAC Media Access Control addresses E.164 addresses service provider identifiers SIDs Service Identifiers and so forth. For example an exchange identifier may be an IP address or URL Uniform Resource Locator that is registered via a domain registry service that is universally recognized by users. Examples of wireless access points include 802.11 compliant wireless access points cell phone towers specialized radios and so forth.

The exchange includes a list of WSP members ASP members and or GSP members. The list also includes member identifiers and corresponding member information for each member stored in member fields. Examples of member identifiers include unique names that are associated with a WSP an ASP or a GSP such as company name assigned alphanumeric identifiers and so forth. Examples of member fields include but are not limited to URLs certificates feature sets and so forth. The list may be stored in a text file a database in memory and may be located on one or more computing devices in one or more locations. Further corresponding member information may be stored independent of the list. For example the list may include a pointer path name that corresponds to a location where a both a feature set and a certificate corresponding to an ASP are stored for access.

Using the list the exchange routes requests for access to the appropriate ASP and or GSP. For example when a user requests access to the Internet via a WSP the exchange authenticates the user via the exchange. Using the list the exchange determines the appropriate ASP to authenticate the user and forwards the request to the selected ASP. Note that a WSP may authenticate a user directly with a corresponding ASP by accessing a local list if appropriate.

Feature sets a type of member information either stored in a list or accessible via a list include descriptions of services offered by service providers. Service providers and users negotiate rates for access to the Internet via the exchange. For example Microsoft Corporation may be an ASP and a member of the exchange. Verizon may be a WSP and a member of the exchange. Microsoft Corporation may agree to pay Verizon a fixed amount of money for each Microsoft employee who accesses the Internet using the Verizon wireless network. Using feature sets Microsoft Corporation and Verizon exchange information about services preferred and services available and negotiate a rate that is acceptable to both parties. Negotiated rates may be fixed rates based on one or more feature set attributes included in a feature set dynamic rates based on or one or more attributes included in a feature set or variations of the like. Feature sets include one or more feature set attributes including but not limited to QoS quality of service bandwidth security and so forth. Note that rates may be pre negotiated between ASPs and WSPs or they may be dynamically negotiated between each other or the exchange. Further competing offers and counter offers are allowed for providing users and service providers with multiple options.

After rates are negotiated service providers and or users agree to a unit of measurement based on an agreed rate. This unit of measurement referred to as a connectivity credit is used for monitoring and billing purposes. WSPs include monitoring services for tracking user connections based on the agreed connectivity credit and for invoicing. The exchange may also include a billing service for generating and sending invoices. Further the exchange facilitates the payment for the services between WSPs and ASPs. Note that billing services may be hosted by WSPs and or GSPs separately from the exchange or via 3rd party service providers that are not members of the exchange.

Exchange is a system that provides ubiquitous wireless connectivity to users by allowing WSPs to make their wireless connectivity available to users and by allowing WSPs to authenticate users before granting access to the Internet. Exchange enables WSPs to monetize their wireless connectivity by allowing ASPs GSPs and users to negotiate rates for allowing users to access the Internet using feature sets A B and C creating a marketplace for exchanging and consuming ubiquitous wireless connectivity. The various scenarios for users to access the Internet via the exchange may include one or more different parties involved in the negotiation process. For example an ASP may negotiate a rate for a user to access the Internet via the exchange without user input. Further details of an implementation of an ASP negotiating a rate for a user will be discussed in . Another example may include a user negotiating a rate for access to the Internet without using an ASP. Details of an implementation of a user negotiating a rate for access without an ASP will be discussed in . These examples and variations of the like are supported by the instant disclosure.

Exchange may be implemented as a centralized system a decentralized system or a variation of the like. Typically a centralized system includes a central service including one or more servers that manage access to the system maintain connections of other subordinate connected systems communicate with the other subordinate connected systems including but not limited to facilitating requests and sending updates. Subordinate connected systems include one or more servers operatively connected to the central service. Examples of architecture types for centralized systems include but are not limited to client server hub and spoke and variations of the like. For example the central service may be running on one or more global servers. Subordinate systems may be one or more regional servers operatively connected to the global servers via the Internet. One or more local servers may be operatively connected to the subordinate servers via the Internet. Further this variation of both a client server and hub and spoke model may be preferred to allow the exchange to scale to accommodate large numbers of users and service providers. The exchange may be deployed in a data center such as a Microsoft Corporation data center to accommodate high volumes of requests and provide high fidelity access and bandwidth.

A decentralized system typically does not include a central service and may allow one or more servers to operate independently. P2P peer to peer is an example architecture of a decentralized system.

In exchange is a centralized system using a variation of client server and hub and spoke architectures. Further details about the implementation of exchange will be discussed in . Note that exchange could be implemented in a decentralized system.

Exchange includes exchange certificate for distributing to service providers. Using exchange certificate exchange validates request from WSPs ASPs and GSPs. However in embodiments where certificates are not desired or not available the ability to validate members of the exchange should be included. In an alternate implementation the exchange may use software executing on member servers to validate members of the exchange by exchanging text files encrypted keys and so forth. In another alternate implementation hardware devices attached to member servers may be used by the exchange to validate members of the exchange.

Exchange includes list A for maintaining one or more identifiers and one or more fields for storing member information associated with exchange members. When processing a request for authentication exchange uses list A to determine the appropriate ASP and or GSP to forward the authentication request to if appropriate. List A includes one or more member identifiers each member identifier having one or more corresponding member fields .

Exchange uses list A to facilitate dynamic negotiations of rates between WSPs ASPs GSPs and or users.

Feature sets are used by service providers and users to negotiate rates. Feature set modules send and receive feature sets and process them. WSP connectivity exchange ASP and Device A include feature set modules and respectively.

Programming interfaces are supported by exchanges to allow software developers to include exchange services in their software applications web applications and the like. Examples of programming interfaces include web service interfaces API Application Programming Interface interfaces REST Representational State Transfer interfaces and so forth. In connectivity exchange includes one or more programming interfaces . The instant disclosure is not limited to the examples of programming interfaces described in this example and may include various other types of interfaces which may be created in various programming languages.

WSPs provide wireless connectivity to users through various wireless transmission protocols such as Wi Fi WiMax 3G and so forth. WSP provides wireless connectivity to Device A via wireless access point . Wireless access point broadcasts connectivity exchange identifier exchange identifier so that user computing devices such as Device A are able to join exchange . Wireless access points such as wireless access point typically broadcast one or more identifiers including identifiers that may not be associated with the exchange. For example a T Mobile Hotspot wireless access point may broadcast two SSIDs one associated with the T Mobile Hotspot wireless services for T Mobile users and a second one associated with the exchange.

WSPs such as WSP include one or more servers and one or more databases . Server includes certificate module for managing and maintaining one or more certificates such as exchange certificate and one or more unique authentication certificates associated with members of exchange . As previously mentioned exchange provides server exchange certificate to validate it is a valid member of exchange . When a request is received from a WSP to authenticate a user exchange verifies the request is from a valid member of the exchange using exchange certificate . Once WSP has been validated exchange processes the request for authentication and may forward the request to an ASP and or a GSP if appropriate. Exchange certificate is administered by exchange . illustrates how exchange administers and distributes exchange certificate as mentioned in .

Each service provider includes a unique authentication certificate for distributing to other service providers. Authentication certificates may be distributed to service providers via the exchange and or directly between service providers. Server includes one or more authentication certificates of one or more other members of exchange . Note that server also includes a unique authentication certificate corresponding to WSP for distributing to other service providers.

Authentication certificates such as authentication certificates and allow WSPs to authenticate users directly with ASPs and or GSPs corresponding to the respective authentication certificates. For example WSP may use authentication certificate to request authentication of a user by ASP if exchange is nonresponsive or unable to service a request. WSP may directly request authentication of a user by the appropriate ASP and or GSP if WSP has a corresponding authentication certificate for that the ASP and or GSP. WSP may determine corresponding ASP GSP using information provided by the user such as user credentials and so forth.

Both exchange certificates and authentication certificates are used to validate membership to an exchange and to validate service providers to other valid service providers of the exchange. As mentioned previously validating service providers of an exchange is not limited to using certificates and may include but is not limited to smart cards passwords software modules executing on each exchange member hardware devices such as crypto devices and variations of the like.

WSPs such as WSP maintain a list of service providers. The list may include all service providers service providers that the WSP has sent requests to or variations of the like. WSP maintains List D in database . Databases such as database include List D for maintaining one or more member identifiers and one or more member fields corresponding to member information associated with members of exchange . Further server includes look up module for accessing List D . Note that lists may also include user information for authenticating users.

As mentioned previously examples of WSPs include but are not limited to cellular network providers wireless hotspot providers and the like. Further individuals with wireless access points such as home owners with Wi Fi connections connected to the Internet via DSL or cable modem may also join exchange . For example an individual who has access to the Internet using a cable modem and has a wireless router can join the exchange and provide wireless connectivity to other users via the exchange. The individual may receive payment from a GSP or shared revenue with the exchange. illustrates an example flowchart implementation as described in that enables various scenarios including the previously mentioned scenario of an individual wireless service provider offering wireless connectivity via exchange .

WSPs such as WSP also include monitoring service billing service and invoice . Examples of monitoring services include hardware devices that monitor user connections such as edge devices RADIUS servers and the like. Further monitoring services may be implemented in software. and illustrate how monitoring services and billing services may be implemented.

One or more of the aforementioned features of a WSP may be combined on one or more devices such as a wireless access point a router a radio and the like.

User computing devices such as Device A include one or more communication modules for communicating with WSP via wireless access point . Computing devices with multiple communication modules can communicate with different wireless access points that support different wireless transmission protocols and allow users various methods to access the Internet. Examples of communication modules include but are not limited to laptop wireless cards that support wireless transmission protocols such as Wi Fi or 3G USB drives that support Wi Fi and or 3G and the like. Further exchange allows computing devices such as Device A with one or more communication modules to transition seamlessly between WSPs offering different wireless transmission protocols. For example when a user is initially on a Wi Fi network and moves to a 3G network or the 3G network provides better performance the user computing device may automatically negotiate a rate with the appropriate WSP for a new connection on the 3G network. The user can switch to the 3G network by selecting the new connection when the Wi Fi connection degrades or terminates and so forth.

Note that separate communication modules are not required to support multiple wireless transmission protocols. For example a single communication module may support various wireless transmission protocols. Further support for two different wireless transmission protocols is not required. Users can transition between two different WSPs that offer the same wireless transmission protocol.

User computing devices may also include applications that use exchange programming interfaces such as programming interface to access exchange . In Device A includes application that uses programming interface to interact with exchange .

As members of an exchange ASPs enable their users to access the Internet via the exchange. Using a directory having one or more user accounts ASPs allow WSPs to authenticate users using their directories via the exchange. ASP includes directory having one or more user accounts . Examples of directories include but are not limited to Microsoft Active Directory Sun Microsystems Directory Server IBM Lotus Domino Directory and the like. describes and illustrates how users are authenticated as described in .

However as previously mentioned in embodiments where a directory is not desired or not available the ability to determine which users should be able to access the Internet via the exchange may be achieved using alternate means. For example ASPs may also enable their users to have access to the Internet via the exchange using lookup tables databases email accounts such as Microsoft Hotmail user accounts associated with social networking sites such as Facebook MySpace Linkedin and so forth.

Further ASPs may prefer to grant users access to the Internet via the exchange in a group rather than on an individual basis. Examples for providing groups of users access include but are not limited to challenge response words phrases pin numbers passwords hardware devices such as smart cards and so forth.

As mentioned previously ASPs are not limited to enabling their users access to the Internet via the exchange using directories. ASPs may also outsource management and maintenance of their users to a GSP. For example a GSP may provide businesses with user accounts for the exchange to authenticate users. IT administrators of a business may administer how these business users are able to access the exchange via the service provider and remove the need to expose their user directories. This also serves as an alternative for businesses that either do not have user directories or would rather outsource the logistics of managing such services.

Business policy such as policies concerning what data is accessible from the Internet read write privileges and the like can be administered via exchanges. ASP includes policy for determining the requirements for users while accessing the Internet via the exchange. Policy may be included in feature sets.

GSPs such as GSP provide general service to members of the exchange and users of the exchange. Note that ASPs are a type of GSP that provide account services and WSPs are a type of GSP that provide wireless connectivity. GSPs may also provide services such as policy enforcement advertising technical support and so forth. GSPs are not limited to these described examples and may include various other services.

Exchanges such as exchange provide various methods for enabling WSPs ASPs and GSPs to join. For example exchanges may allow WSPs and ASPs to join using a protocol that automates the process allowing the exchange to request information from the WSP ASP and or GSP and facilitate the joining process. Exchanges may also provide a URL for administrators of WSPs and ASPs to access information to join the exchange. Exchanges also provide ways for WSPs and ASPs to identify and verify they are valid members. Exchange includes exchange certificate and distributes exchange certificate to validate service providers. As mentioned previously certificates are one way to enable identification and validation but exchanges are not limited to using certificates. discuss and illustrate how service providers join exchange as mentioned in .

Exchange may use various methods to authenticate users. These various methods may include relaying messages between WSPs and ASPs or enabling a direct connection between WSPs and ASPs so that a WSP can authenticate a user directly with an ASP. Further these various methods may include logic for negotiating firewalls NAT boxes and so forth. Exchange supports the above mentioned relaying of messages and enabling direct communication between WSPs and ASPs. Users typically have various options to choose from in wirelessly connecting to the Internet. Wide area networks such as wide area network may include one or more WSPs . Note that not all of the WSPs in a wide area network may be members of an exchange or may be members of one or more exchanges.

Using user credential provided by a user of Device A or from a data store not shown that maintains user credentials WSP attempts to authenticate the user via exchange . Applications running on user devices may also include credentials that are used to authenticate a user or application via the exchange. Application running on Device A includes user credentials not shown for use in authenticating application or the user.

As previously mentioned WSPs may provide local authentication services such as Captive Portal 802.1x RADIUS and the like. For example a WSP may be using 802.1x and RADIUS for local authentication. When a user requests access to the Internet via the exchange using the WSP the WSP may attempt to authenticate the user locally. If the user has previously used the WSP local authentication may be possible and may be sufficient to authenticate the user with the appropriate ASP and negotiate a rate. If not the WSP sends the request to the exchange and the exchange forwards the request to the appropriate ASP. The ASP may include Microsoft Active Directory Federated Services ADFS for providing user authentication via the exchange. Note that preferences and or security settings of each WSP and or ASP may determine how users are authenticated. and discuss and illustrate how exchange authenticates users as mentioned in .

Rates are negotiated for wireless connectivity via the exchange using feature sets. Each WSP has one or more feature sets that describe services available and or offered by the WSP corresponding to the wireless connectivity and or agreements for use of the wireless connectivity.

Users may have their own feature sets that specify their preferences for wireless connectivity including but not limited to QoS bandwidth security and so forth. These user feature sets may also include user preferences for agreeing to use wireless connectivity including but not limited to agreements to advertising forms of payment and so forth.

Applications running on user computing devices may also include their own feature sets. Application includes one or more feature sets not shown .

Referring to feature sets include attributes corresponding to one or more categories such as a contract category a service category and a device category. Feature set B includes the following one or more attributes associated with contract category counter offer offer is good until advertising billing type memberships and payment type . Feature set B also includes the following attributes associated with service category encryption bandwidth VPN Virtual Private Network support QoS authentication time of day limitations and location . Further feature set B includes the following attributes associated with device category device type screen size and communication module types .

Each attribute may include parameters that specify a desired value a minimum value and or a priority value corresponding to an attribute for use in negotiating rates. Feature set B includes desired value minimum value and priority value . For example a user may have a desired value for bandwidth a minimum value of bandwidth and a priority value of bandwidth that places the bandwidth attribute higher than the security attribute that may also have desired values minimum values and priority values .

Feature sets may be stored as text files data stored in a database data stored in a bit array or in a registry. For example feature sets stored as data in a bit array may have one or more bits associated with a value for a particular attribute. In feature set B is stored in database . Note that feature sets may be stored in various formats and in various locations and are not limited to the examples described herein.

Transmitting features sets between devices may be accomplished using protocols web services the exchange of text files and so forth.

As previously mentioned rates can be pre negotiated and or dynamically negotiated. and discuss and illustrate how rates are negotiated dynamically as described in . Note that the implementation in has been deliberately expanded to illustrate various aspects that are possible with the instant disclosure. Not all of the elements illustrated in are required in every embodiment and they are not intended to limit the scope of types of services corresponding to attribute categories and the like.

Returning to developers and or distributors of software applications and services may pay for users to access the Internet via the exchange. Their software and or services may include one or more feature sets for accessing the Internet via the exchange that takes into consideration performance considerations user scenarios subscriptions and the like. Further developers and or distributors may pay for users connection to the Internet via the exchange when they are using their product.

Exchanges such as exchange enable advertisers and or third party vendors to pay for users to access the Internet via the exchange in return for determining the users advertising experience. Examples of advertising experience include advertising on search results pop ups via instant messengers message boxes triggered in the OS banners in the browsers and so forth. Further WSPs may monetize their wireless connectivity by receiving a percentage of the advertising revenue made by advertisers using the exchange.

As mentioned previously billing services may be performed by the exchange the WSP an intermediary service and or the user and various combinations of the like. In billing service manages accounting and billing for users accessing the Internet using exchange user accounts. Billing service executes on server at the WSP and manages accounting and billing for users accessing the Internet using accounts that are associated with exchange but are not managed by exchange . Note that billing service could also manage the accounting and billing for these users if desired.

Billing is seamless for users WSPs and ASPs. Users may pay using credit cards PayPal direct deposit and so forth. illustrates and describes the invoice and billing services as described in .

In the following description of continuing reference is made to elements and reference numerals shown and described in .

Exchanges may include one or more global connectivity exchange services global services for managing connections to the exchange. Additional global services may be added to the exchange to improve load balancing provide redundancy in the event of failure and the like. Global services are operatively connected to one or more regional connectivity exchange services regional service and global services manage the list of service providers. In exchange includes global service . Global service includes List A and is operatively connected to regional services and and ASP . List A maintains information about service providers.

Exchange also includes backup global service . Backup global service may function in the place of global service in the event global service fails so that service is not interrupted.

Global services may also be operatively connected to other exchanges that may be owned and managed by other companies and or located in different locations. In global service is operatively connected to exchange . Note that exchange may be located in a different country.

Regional services are operatively connected to one or more local connectivity exchange services local services . Local services are able to connect to global services via the regional services. Local services are also operatively connected to WSPs. In local service is operatively connected to regional service and WSP . Regional service includes List A and local service also includes List A . Device A accesses the exchange via WSP . Note that this is only one example implementation of an exchange and variations of the like may allow the exchange to scale and or operate effectively to suit various technical and or business needs. In the implementation described in service providers may connect to a local service a regional service or a global service. Further regional and local services may include lists that are a subset of the global list List A for efficiency and scaling purposes.

Referring to service providers may join the exchange by sending a request to join the exchange. is a flow chart depicting an example in the context of of a WSP connecting to exchange . The flow chart depicts only one example of an implementation for connecting a WSP to an exchange and is not intended to limit the examples described in this application to this particular implementation.

In the following description of continuing reference is made to elements and reference numerals shown and described in both and .

When connecting a WSP to an exchange the WSP typically sends a request to the exchange to join. At block WSP sends a request to join exchange .

The exchange receives the request processes the request and determines if the requesting WSP should have access. At block exchange receives a request from WSP and processes the request. If the exchange determines the WSP should not have access a denial message is sent to the WSP. At block exchange does not grant access and sends a denial message to WSP .

When the WSP receives a denial message it may either retry or stop. At block WSP may retry joining or stop trying to join.

If the exchange determines the WSP should have access a certificate is generated and is sent to the WSP. At block exchange grants access. At block a certificate is generated and at block exchange sends the accept message and certificate to WSP .

When the WSP receives an acceptance message it processes the acceptance message stores the certificate and creates a cache list. At block WSP processes the acceptance message. At block WSP stores the certificate. At block WSP creates List D .

WSPs such as WSP create feature sets to be used in negotiating rates with GSPs. At block WSP creates feature set B . At block WSP validates feature set B with exchange . At block exchange processes and validates feature set B .

In an alternate implementation a software application module may be sent from the exchange to the WSP. The software application module allows the WSP to join the exchange and allows users to access the Internet via the exchange. Referring to WSPs may join exchanges by sending a request to join the exchange. is a flow chart depicting an example in the context of of connecting WSP to exchange . The flow chart depicts only one example of an implementation for connecting a WSP to an exchange and is not intended to limit the examples described in this application to this particular implementation.

In the following description of continuing reference is made to elements and reference numerals shown and described in both and .

When connecting a WSP to an exchange the WSP typically sends a request to the exchange to join. At block WSP sends a request to join exchange .

The exchange receives the request processes the request and determines if the requesting WSP should have access. At block exchange receives a request from WSP and processes the request. If the exchange determines the WSP should not have access a denial message is sent to the WSP. At block exchange does not grant access and sends a denial message to WSP .

When the WSP receives a denial message it may either retry or stop. At block WSP may retry joining or stop trying to join.

If the exchange determines the WSP should have access a certificate is generated and is sent to the WSP. At block exchange grants access. At block exchange sends an exchange application module to WSP .

When the WSP receives an acceptance message it processes the acceptance message stores the exchange application module and creates a cache list. At block WSP processes the acceptance message. At block WSP installs the exchange application module. At block WSP creates List D .

Note that joining a WSP to an exchange may include variations of the steps described in the previous flowcharts and may be modified and or removed to accommodate different architectures.

Returning now to WSPs may include lists for maintaining each of their own connections to various services and or devices. These lists allow exchanges to scale their architecture to service many users and or requests. By maintaining lists at different locations unnecessary requests do not congest the network.

Consider the scenario where a user previously connected to a WSP and wants to connect to the same WSP again at a later time. When the device connected to the WSP the previous time the user provided a set of user credentials. The WSP performs a lookup on the WSP list to determine if the user had accessed the Internet via the exchange using this WSP. Since the user had not the WSP forwards the request to the exchange. The exchange performs the same look up on the exchange list to find the appropriate location to authenticate the user and provides the information to the WSP. illustrates how Device A is authenticated by exchange and how lists A and D respectively are used as described in .

In the following description of continuing reference is made to elements and reference numerals shown and described in .

Users provide user credentials via their devices to access the Internet via the exchange. Along with user credentials devices send feature sets to the WSP. At block Device A sends a request to access the Internet and feature set A to WSP .

A WSP receives a request to access the Internet and the feature set. At block WSP receives the request and feature set A and processes the request.

The WSP determines if the user is a local user. At block WSP determines the user is a local user. For example WSP may verify that user credentials include a domain that corresponds to the domain for WSP .

If the user credentials include the domain of the WSP indicating the user is local the WSP determines if the user is a valid local user. At block WSP determines user credentials are valid. For example WSP may verify the username and password in user credentials correspond to the username in a local directory not shown that stores user information for users associated with the local domain.

If the user is a valid local user the WSP determines if the user has pre negotiated rates for accessing the Internet. If the user has pre negotiated rates the WSP initiates accounting and billing and sends the user an accept message. At block WSP determines the user has pre negotiated rates. At block WSP initiates monitoring service . At block WSP sends an accept message to Device A . Note that the user s feature set may still be referenced and or processed although the user has pre negotiated rates.

The device receives the accept message and processes the message. At block Device receives the accept message from WSP and processes the message. Device my access the Internet after receiving the accept message.

If a valid local user does not have pre negotiated rates the WSP negotiates a rate with the user. Returning to block WSP determines the user does not have pre negotiated rates. At block WSP negotiates a rate with the user and or a GSP. illustrates an example flowchart of a WSP dynamically negotiating a rate with a user in more detail.

If the user is a local user but is not a valid user the WSP sends a deny message and may prompt the user to sign up for an account. Returning to block WSP determines the user is not a valid user. At block WSP sends a deny message to Device A and prompts the user to sign up for an account.

If the user is not a local user the WSP determines if the user is associated with a known member of the exchange via an ASP. Returning to block WSP determines the user is not a local user.

If the user is a known member of the exchange via an ASP if the user information is in a list maintained by the WSP the WSP determines if the user has a pre negotiated rate. At block WSP determines the user is a known member of the exchange.

If the user has a pre negotiated rate the WSP authenticates the user via the ASP and initiates monitoring. At block WSP determines the user has a pre negotiated rate. At block WSP authenticates the user via ASP . At block WSP initiates monitoring.

If the user does not have a pre negotiated rate the WSP attempts to negotiate a rate with the user s corresponding ASP. Returning to block WSP determines the user does not have a pre negotiated rate. At block WSP negotiates a rate with ASP . illustrates an example flowchart that describes a WSP dynamically negotiating a rate with an ASP.

If the user is not a cached user the user information is not in a list maintained by the WSP the WSP attempts to negotiate a rate with the user s ASP via the exchange. Returning to block WSP determines the user is not a cached user. At block WSP attempts to negotiate a rate with ASP via exchange . illustrates an example implementation of a WSP dynamically negotiating a rate with an ASP via the exchange.

After attempting to negotiate a rate either directly with the ASP or GSP or via the exchange the WSP receives either an access accept or deny message. The WSP processes the message and sends an appropriate message to the device. At block WSP receives an access accept message or an access denied message from ASP or exchange .

The WSP processes the message. If the message is an access accept message the WSP initiates the monitoring service. If the message is an access denied message the WSP processes the denied message and sends the denied message to the user. At block WSP determines the message is an access accepted message. At block WSP initiates monitoring service .

Returning to block if WSP receives an access denied message WSP processes the access denied message and sends the access denied message to Device A . At block Device A receives and processes the access denied message.

Referring to a WSP negotiates a rate directly with a user for accessing the Internet. The implementation in has been deliberately expanded to illustrate various aspects that are possible with the instant disclosure. Not all of the elements illustrated in are required in every embodiment and they are not intended to limit the scope of how WSPs negotiate rates with users. Further in the following description of continuing reference is made to elements and reference numerals shown and described in and .

As previously described in a WSP determines if a user is local and if the user has pre negotiated rates. If the user does not have pre negotiated rates the WSP attempts to negotiate a rate with a user. At block the WSP attempts to negotiate a rate with the user.

The WSP receives and processes the user s feature set. At block WSP receives and processes feature set A . To generate and send an offer to the user the WSP compares the user s feature set to the WSP s feature set. At block WSP compares feature set A to WSP feature set . At block WSP generates and sends an offer to the user.

The user receives and processes the offer. At block Device A receives and processes the offer. If the user chooses to accept the offer the user s device sends an accept message to the WSP. At block the user accepts the offer. At block Device A sends an accept message to WSP . The WSP initiates a billing service and a monitoring service.

If the user chooses not to accept the offer the user may re try negotiating with the WSP. At block the user chooses not to accept the offer. If the user chooses to re try negotiating with the WSP the user may send an updated feature set. At block the user chooses to re try negotiating with WSP . At block the user generates and sends an updated feature set A . The WSP receives and processes the updated feature set.

If the user chooses not to re try negotiating with the WSP the connection between the user s device and the WSP is disconnected. At block the user chooses not to re try negotiating with WSP . At block the connection between Device A and WSP is disconnected.

In the WSP forwards an access request for the user to access the Internet the WSP s feature set and an offer to an ASP. At block WSP forwards the access request feature set B and an offer.

The ASP receives the access request and determines if the user is a valid client. If the user is a valid client the ASP processes the WSP s feature set. At block ASP determines the user is a valid client. At block ASP processes feature set B .

The ASP processes the WSP s feature set and compares the WSP s feature set to the ASP s feature set. The ASP determines if the WSP s feature set and offer are acceptable. If the ASP accepts the offer the ASP sends an ASP accept message to the WSP. At block ASP compares feature set B to feature set C . At block ASP accepts the offer. And at block ASP sends an accept message to WSP .

Returning to block if the ASP does not accept the offer the ASP generates and sends a counter offer to the WSP. At block ASP generates and sends a counter offer to WSP .

The WSP receives and processes the counter offer and determines whether or not to accept the counter offer. If the WSP accepts the offer the WSP sends an accept message to the ASP. The WSP receives and processes the accept message and sends an accept message to the WSP. At block WSP receives and processes the counter offer. At block WSP accepts the offer. At block WSP sends an accept message.

Returning to block if the WSP does not accept the offer the WSP may re try negotiating with the ASP. If the WSP re tries negotiating with the ASP the WSP generates and sends a counter offer. At block WSP re tries negotiating with ASP . At block WSP generates and sends a counter offer. At block ASP receives and processes the counter offer.

Returning to block if the WSP chooses not to re try the connection between the WSP and the user s device is disconnected. At block WSP disconnects the connection with Device A .

Returning to block if the client is not a valid client the WSP sends an access denied message. At block ASP sends an access denied message to WSP .

As previously mentioned in the WSP determines if the user is a cached user. If the user is not a cached user the WSP attempts to negotiate a rate for the user to access the Internet with the user s ASP via the exchange. The exchange determines the user s ASP and forwards the access request the WSP feature set and the WSP s offer to the appropriate ASP. Referring to at block the WSP starts the negotiation process with the ASP via the exchange. Returning to at block WSP forwards the access request feature set B and an offer to the exchange. At block exchange determines the appropriate ASP for the user and forwards the access request feature set B and offer.

As similarly described in the ASP determines if the user is a valid client. If the user is a valid client the ASP sends the exchange a message indicating the user is valid. At block ASP determines the user is a valid client. At block ASP sends exchange a message indicating the user is valid.

After notification that the user is a valid client the exchange requests competing offers from one or more other WSPs. If any competing offers are received by the exchange the exchange forwards the competing offers to the ASP. At block exchange requests a competing offer from one or more WSPs. At block exchange forwards any received competing offers to ASP .

The ASP receives any feature sets corresponding to the competing offers and processes the feature sets including the originally received feature set. At block ASP receives and processes feature set B and any corresponding competing feature sets. At block ASP compares the received feature sets against feature set C corresponding to ASP .

If the ASP accepts the offer the ASP sends an accept message. The accept message is forwarded to the WSP. At block ASP accepts the offer from WSP . At block ASP sends an access accept message to exchange . At block exchange forwards the access accept message to WSP .

Returning to block if the ASP does not accept the offer the ASP generates and sends a counter offer. The exchange receives and forwards the counter offer to the WSP. The WSP receives and processes the counter offer as similarly described in . At block ASP generates and sends a counter offer. At block exchange receives and forwards the counter offer to WSP . At block WSP receives and processes the counter offer.

Returning to block if the user is not a valid client the ASP sends an access denied message. The exchange receives the access denied message and forwards the access denied message to the WSP. At block ASP sends an access denied message. At block exchange receives the access denied message and forwards the access denied message to WSP . Note that exchange may forward the exact message received from WSP or send a message generated by exchange corresponding to the access denied messaged received from ASP .

As previously described in the WSP initiates a monitoring service. At block the monitoring service is initiated.

When the WSP initiates the monitoring service the WSP begins recording the user s session. At block WSP starts recording the user s session.

The WSP generates an exchange credit based on the agreed offer and verifies the generated exchange credit is acceptable to the user and or the GSP ASP. At block WSP generates exchange credit . At block WSP verifies the exchange credit with ASP . Note that WSP may validate the exchange credit with exchange or the user of Device A in addition to or in lieu of ASP .

WSPs monitor user connections based on the agreed connectivity exchange credit. When the user ends the connection the WSP stop recording the user session and determines which billing service to use. If the WSP billing service is used the WSP billing service generates an invoice based on the recorded session and the agreed exchange connectivity credit. At block WSP monitors the user s connection based on exchange connectivity credit . At block WSP determines if the user ended the connection. For example the user may have powered off the computing device. At block WSP determines if the user connection should be terminated. For example if the user has reached a maximum time limit on the agreed usage the WSP may end the connection.

If the user s connection is ended the WSP stops recording the user s session. At block WSP stops recording the user s session.

WSPs such as WSP determine which billing service should be used such as the WSP billing service the exchange billing service or the like. At block WSP determines billing service WSP billing service will be used. At block billing service generates and processes invoice based on the user s usage and exchange connectivity credit . At block WSP bills the appropriate account for the user s usage. This may be determined from the connectivity exchange credit .

In another example the user and or ASP may prefer the exchange performing the billing. Returning to block if the WSP uses billing service maintained by exchange or the user prefers using billing service WSP sends invoice to billing service . At block WSP generates and sends invoice to exchange . At block billing service receives invoice . At block billing service processes invoice and at block billing service bills the appropriate account for the user s usage. This may be determined from the connectivity exchange credit .

Third party billing services may also be used. Third party billing services include but are not limited to a GSP an ASP financial institutions such as credit card companies and banks cable companies telephone companies and so forth. For example the invoice for the user s usage may be received by the user s cell phone provider and integrated into the user s cell phone bill so the user may be billed appropriately without a separate bill. This also allows third party billing services to integrate the user s usage with other services such as allowing users to earn connectivity exchange credits convert other paid for services for connectivity exchange credits such as converting data associated with a data package plan offered by a cell phone provider for wireless connectivity used in a different medium via the exchange and so forth. Note that invoice may be sent to one or more billing services for processing and billing. Further invoice may also be sent to non billing services for tracking purposes such as earning connectivity exchange credits and the like.

The computing device can be implemented with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system configurations. Examples of well known computing systems may include but are not limited to personal computers hand held or laptop devices microprocessor based systems multiprocessor systems set top boxes gaming consoles consumer electronics cellular telephones PDAs and the like.

Components of computing device can include one or more processors including CPUs GPUs microprocessors and the like a system memory a system bus that couples the various system components and the methods described above. Processor processes various computer executable instructions including those to execute and run the methods described in the instant disclosure. For example processor processes various computer executable instructions including the method for receiving processing and generating feature sets and or the method for joining a connectivity exchange to control the operation of computing device and to communicate with other electronic and computing devices not shown . The system bus represents any number of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

The system memory may include computer readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in ROM. RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently operated on by one or more of the processors . The method for receiving processing and generating feature sets and or the method for joining a connectivity exchange may be stored in RAM and may be accessible to and or presently operated on by one or more of the processors .

Peripheral drives may be coupled to the computing device or incorporated into the computing device by coupling to the bus. Examples of peripheral drives include mass storage devices such as a magnetic disk drive which reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk or an optical disk drive that reads from and or writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or the like. Computer readable media such as typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules and the like supplied on floppy disks CDs DVDs portable memory sticks network attached devices and the like. The method for receiving processing and generating feature sets and or the method for joining an connectivity exchange may be provided to processor by the peripheral device .

Any number of program modules can be stored on hard disk system memory or made available via peripheral device for an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. The method for receiving processing and generating feature sets and or the method for joining a connectivity exchange may be stored on the hard disk or made available through a peripheral drive . Each of such operating system application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an embodiment of the systems and methods described herein.

A display device can be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . The display device displays the method for receiving processing and generating feature sets and or the method for joining a connectivity exchange. A user can interface with computing device via any number of different input devices such as a keyboard pointing device joystick game pad serial port and or the like. These and other input devices are connected to the processors via input output interfaces that are coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port and or a universal serial bus USB .

Computing device can operate in a networked environment using connections to one or more remote computers through one or more local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs and the like. The computing device is connected to a network via a network adapter or alternatively by a modem DSL ISDN interface or the like.

The storage devices utilized to store program instructions can be distributed across a network. For example a remote computer may store an example of the process described as software. A local or terminal computer may access the remote computer and download a part or all of the software to run the program. Alternatively the local computer may download pieces of the software as needed or a distributed process by executing some software instructions at the local terminal and some at the remote computer or computer network . It is noted that by utilizing conventional techniques all or a portion of the software instructions may be carried out by a dedicated circuit such as a DSP programmable logic array or the like.

Although some particular implementations of systems and methods have been illustrated in the accompanying drawings and described in the foregoing Detailed Description it will be understood that the system and methods shown and described are not limited to the particular implementations described but are capable of numerous rearrangements modifications and substitutions without departing from the spirit set forth and defined by the following claims.

