---

title: Apparatus and methods for providing enhanced mobile messaging services
abstract: Various embodiments for providing enhanced mobile messaging services are described. In one or more embodiments, a mobile computing device may send messages of different types. The mobile computing device may allow a sender to compose a message independently of message type. The mobile computing device may automatically determine both a message type for the message and the transfer medium by which to send the message. The mobile computing device may consider factors including message contents, network availability and reliability, historical data, cost, sender preferences, recipient preferences, etc. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08583807&OS=08583807&RS=08583807
owner: PALM, Inc.
number: 08583807
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081031
---
A mobile computing device such as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone or smart phone generally may provide voice and data communications functionality as well as computing and processing capabilities. In addition to supporting voice or data and voicemail services a mobile computing device may support various other types of mobile messaging services such as facsimile e mail instant messaging IM short message service or enhanced message service SMS EMS messaging multimedia message service MMS messaging video conferencing and so forth. Further various transfer media may be available to transmit messages such as wireless cellular telephone etc. The various messaging services may have differing costs associated with them and not all messaging services or transfer media may be available at any given time. Accordingly there may be a need for an improved apparatus and methods for providing enhanced mobile messaging services.

Various embodiments are directed to providing enhanced mobile messaging services. In one or more embodiments a mobile computing device may send and receive messages of different types and over different transfer media. In an embodiment a mobile computing device may include an automatic messaging manager to determine available transfer media and available message types for sending a composed message. The mobile computing device may automatically select a transfer medium from the available transfer media and a message type from the available message types. The mobile device may automatically format the composed message to the selected message type and send a message to a recipient according to the selected medium and message type.

Mobile computing device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality mobile computing device may be arranged to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Long Term Evolution LTE and so forth.

Mobile computing device may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

Mobile computing device may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electromagnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the embodiment of mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . In various implementations the host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth. Other embodiments may comprise a single processor or multiple processors without departing from the spirit of the invention.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although some embodiments may be described as comprising a dual processor architecture for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that mobile computing device may comprise any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors consistent with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a general purpose processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the host processor implemented as a CPU or general purpose processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

Mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. Mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth.

Mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . Display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus a handwriting recognition program or gesture technology.

Mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

Mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

Mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communication for a cellular radiotelephone system such as a GSM UMTS and or CDMA system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols LTE protocols and so forth. In some embodiments the transceiver module may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

Mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and application programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device .

System programs generally may assist in the running of mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. Mobile computing device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. Examples of application programs may include without limitation one or more messaging applications e.g. voice or data voicemail facsimile e mail IM SMS EMS MMS video conferencing a web browser application personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

As shown in mobile computing device may comprise or implement several messaging applications arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Each of the messaging applications may be representative of a particular kind of transport enabling handling of messages of particular types and formats for the particular application. Messaging applications may comprise for example a phone application such as a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application a voice or data application and so forth. Messaging applications may further comprise a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an e mail application an SMS EMS application and an MMS application . It is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited in this regard and that messaging applications may include any other type of messaging or communications application which is consistent with the described embodiments. It also is to be appreciated that mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in addition to messaging applications which are consistent with the described embodiments.

Mobile computing device may comprise a message content database . Message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects of messages sent and received by messaging applications . Message content database may be implemented in memory of the mobile computing device for example.

Mobile computing device also may comprise a contacts database . Contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of mobile computing device . The contact record for an individual may comprise identifying information such as first name last name company employer name mailing addresses e.g. home work other telephone numbers e.g. home work mobile fax pager e mail address e.g. home work primary alternative IM screen names SMS EMS identifier MMS identifier personal information notes and so forth. The contact record for an individual may further include preferences for the contact such as preferred messaging types and or transfer media for a contact. The contact record for an individual may further include a history of past messages to and or from the contact and may include information about the past messages such as the message type transfer medium used success of delivery etc.

Contacts database may be used or accessed when receiving and or sending messages. In various embodiments identifying information e.g. telephone number e mail address IM screen name SMS EMS identifier MMS identifier etc. included in messages received by the messaging applications may be compared against the contacts database to identify the sender of a message. The contacts database also may be used or accessed when composing and or sending messages. For example the user of mobile computing device may search for and open the contact record of a particular individual to initiate communication.

Mobile computing device may comprise a message log . The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by the mobile computing device. Entries in the message log may reflect recently made or attempted communications. In various implementations the entries in the message log may be accessed by the user for replying to a missed message and or for reinitiating or reattempting communication with a particular individual. Message log may record success or failure of a communication including the recipient transfer medium date and time stamp location sent from message size message type of the communication etc.

As shown in mobile computing device may comprise or implement an intelligent message manager coupled to messaging applications . In various embodiments intelligent message manager may be arranged to access and communicate with one or more of message content database contacts database and message log . Intelligent message manager may comprise for example hardware and or software such as messaging logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. host processor . The messaging logic may be stored internally or externally to the logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media. In various implementations intelligent message manager may communicate with a messaging rules database arranged to store rules and parameters for controlling the selection of transfer media and messaging types for composed messages according to a set of criteria.

In various embodiments intelligent message manager may be arranged to determine which transfer media are available to send a message. Transfer media may include for example a cellular telephone network a wireless network etc. A transfer medium may have a cost associated with it and may vary in availability and reliability depending on for example the location of the mobile computing device. A transfer medium may also affect power consumption on mobile computing device .

Intelligent message manager may be arranged to examine one or more components of a composed message and in conjunction with selecting a transfer medium determine which message type to generate from the composed message. Message components may include for example text multimedia files etc. Message types may include for example voice or data messages voicemail messages fax messages video conferencing messages instant messaging IM messages e mail messages short message service or enhanced message service SMS EMS messages and multimedia message service MMS messages. In an example a message that contains only a text component may be a candidate for an IM an e mail or a SMS EMS message. A message that contains an audio file may be a candidate for example for a voicemail message or a MMS message.

Intelligent message manager may be arranged for example to weigh transfer media availability cost and reliability in conjunction with message components such as message priority. For example for the text based message scenario given above an IM message may cost money per message for the sender while an SMS EMS message may be free for the sender.

Intelligent message manager may be arranged to consider other criteria when selecting a transfer medium and a messaging type. For example the preferences of the recipient of the message may influence the selection. A recipient may for example prefer to receive SMS EMS messages over e mail messages. The user of mobile device may input a recipient s preferences for example in a contact record for the recipient in contacts database .

Other criteria may include for example power availability and consumption a speed of a transfer medium message priority other user specified criteria and historic knowledge of a best medium or message type based on the location of mobile device . The embodiments are not limited to these examples.

Mobile device may provide a unified messaging user interface UI . Unified messaging UI may provide a single UI that allows a sender to compose a message. Unified messaging UI may be independent of message type. Thus a sender may compose a message by adding one or more message components via the UI and then send the message without having to select a message type or transfer medium explicitly. Unified messaging UI is discussed further below with respect to .

As shown the messaging UI may comprise a title bar for displaying the title of the unified messaging application. The messaging UI also may comprise a number of fields corresponding to message components. For example recipient field may correspond to a recipient component and may allow the sender to enter one or more recipients for the message. In an embodiment the sender may add a recipient by manually entering an email address or a telephone number for example by using a keypad or a stylus. Embodiments may provide a loop up or browse button or menu to allow the sender to access and add a recipient from stored contact information from contacts database . Embodiments may allow the sender to mix the format for the recipients. For example the sender may add an email address and a telephone number to the same composed message. Recipients may be added by telephone number e mail address IM screen name SMS EMS identifier MMS identifier and so forth.

Messaging UI may further include a subject field which may correspond to a subject message component. The sender may add a subject to the message for example by typing text from a keypad using a stylus or using gesture technology.

Messaging UI may further include a text field which may correspond to a text message component. The sender may add text to the message for example by typing text from a keypad using a stylus or using gesture technology. Text field may contain plain text or formatted text.

Messaging UI may further include an attachment field which may correspond to an attachment message component. The sender may add one or more attachments to the message. Attachments may include for example documents audio files video files image files etc. Embodiments may imbed the attachment s in the message. The sender may select items to attach in several ways. For example embodiments may allow the sender to browse for items stored on device in memory or in message content . Embodiments are not limited to this example.

Messaging UI may further include a priority field to allow the sender to select the priority of the message. Messages marked as high priority or urgent for example may cause intelligent message manager to rank speed and or reliability higher than other factors such as cost in selecting a transfer medium. A use may select a priority for example by selecting from a menu or selecting one of a set of buttons corresponding to different priorities etc.

Messaging UI may further include one or more custom fields which may correspond to other message components. Custom fields may be user defined. Custom fields may include specially formatted fields for example to hold formatted text hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . Custom fields may contain universal resource locators URLs or images such as icons or emoticons. Custom fields may include a priority setting for the message. Custom fields may include a message s expected delivery date time or expiration date time. Embodiments are not limited to these examples.

The messaging UI may comprise a scroll bar if necessary to scroll through the displayed message components.

In various embodiments the logic flow may comprise receiving a component of a message from the device user i.e. the sender in block . The message components may include for example those illustrated in .

In block intelligent message manager may determine automatically both a transfer medium and a message type for the message. The determination may be based on various criteria. The criteria may include but are not limited to sender preferences receiver preferences cost network availability network reliability message components present in the composed message message priority the sender s selected network signal strength location message size historical data etc. The criteria are discussed further below with respect to . Intelligent message manager may employ one or more decision making algorithms or logical flows to select the transfer medium and message type. Intelligent message manager may also make use of stored data such as historical data in message log and contact data from contact database . In an embodiment intelligent message manager may store a list or otherwise ranked set of additional transfer media and or message types that may be used in the event that the first selection results in an unsuccessful transmission.

In block intelligent message manager or unified messaging UI may format the message according to the selected message type from the components entered by the sender. For example a message made up of text a recipient e mail address and a priority may be composed into an e mail message. A message made up of an audio file may be composed as a voicemail message. The embodiments are not limited to these examples.

If device is configured to request sender approval of the selected transfer medium and message type in block intelligent message manager may request confirmation from the sender in block . In block the sender may approve the selection or override the selection with another transfer medium and or message type. In an embodiment intelligent message manager may display additional options for possible transfer media and or message type to the sender in the event that the sender overrides the selection.

In the absence of a confirmation prompt or when the sender confirms the selection intelligent message manager may send the formatted message via the selected transfer medium in block . If the sender overrides the selection intelligent message manager may send the message according to the sender s selection.

In block if the transmission is successful the process ends at block . If the transmission is unsuccessful intelligent message manager may select the next best method and send the message again in block .

In block device may determine the possible message types based on the message components composed by the sender.

In block device e.g. via intelligent message manager may determine what transfer media are available. Availability of a transfer medium may be determined by for example signal strength location sender s network selection message content message size etc.

In block device may determine which transmission methods are available via the available transfer media. For example if a cellular network transfer medium is available then voice or data calls and SMS EMS messaging may be available.

In block device may determine and apply the sender s preferences for message delivery. For example the sender may prefer instant messages IM over SMS and SMS over e mail. In an embodiment device may provide a user interface to allow the sender to specify and store such preferences.

In block device may determine which transfer medium and or message type may be optimal based on the location of device . Device may make this determination based on stored data about previous message transmissions.

In block device may determine the costs of the available transmission methods. For example the sender may have a calling plan that allows a certain number of voice or data calls for no additional charge while a text message on the same plan may incur a fee. Similarly the sender may have exceeded the number of allowed calls resulting in a larger fee for a voice or data call than for a text message. Embodiments of the invention may select the least cost transmission method or may assign a more favorable weight to transmission methods with lower or no cost. In an embodiment device may download and or store cost data.

In block device may determine which of the available transfer media and transmission methods are the most reliable have the greatest throughput or are otherwise optimal according to some criterion. Such determination may consider current data such as location and signal strength message size the sender s network selection and or historical data about previous attempts to send a similar message via the same transfer medium near the same location.

In block device may determine if the intended recipient has any preferences about how to receive a message from the sender.

In block device may use other considerations to narrow the selection of which transfer medium and or message type to use. Other considerations may include for example the power consumption needed for a transfer medium. In some embodiments device may accept an override from the sender to override the device selected transfer medium.

In block device may determine if sender approval of the selection is necessary and may request such approval as needed.

The selection process may end at block when at least one transfer medium and message type is selected.

Although presents the various decisions in a linear serial manner embodiments may allow the decisions to take place in parallel or in a combination of parallel and serial steps. The decisions may be made cyclically or by following one or more branching decision trees. Further the decisions illustrated in are not limited to the order shown and may take place in any order. Other considerations may also be included or omitted and the embodiments are not limited to what is illustrated in .

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

Some of the figures may include a flow diagram. Although such figures may include a particular logic flow it can be appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an exemplary implementation of the general functionality. Further the logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

