---

title: Triol form of rosuvastatin and synthesis of rosuvastatin
abstract: Provided is a rosuvastatin triol and its use as a reference standard for analysis of rosuvastatin. Also provided are methods for preparation of rosuvastatin.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07851624&OS=07851624&RS=07851624
owner: Teva Pharamaceutical Industries Ltd.
number: 07851624
owner_city: Petah Tiqva
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20080313
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 60 906 914 filed on Mar. 13 2007 and 60 918 466 filed on Mar. 15 2007 and is a Continuation In Part CIP of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 520 295 filed on Sep. 12 2006 now abandoned which is a Continuation In Part CIP of U.S. Ser. No. 11 020 834 filed on Dec. 23 2004 now abandoned which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 60 532 458 filed on Dec. 24 2003 and 60 547 715 filed on Feb. 24 2004 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety herein.

The present invention relates to rosuvastatin triol and its use as a reference standard for analysis of rosuvastatin.

Statins are currently the most therapeutically effective drugs available for reducing low density lipoprotein LDL particle concentration in the blood stream of patients at risk for cardiovascular disease. Thus statins are used in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia hyperlipoproteinemia and atherosclerosis. A high level of LDL in the bloodstream has been linked to the formation of coronary lesions that obstruct the flow of blood and can rupture and promote thrombosis. Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics page 879 9th Ed. 1996 .

Statins inhibit cholesterol biosynthesis in humans by competitively inhibiting the 3 hydroxy 3 methyl glutaryl coenzyme A HMG CoA reductase enzyme. HMG CoA reductase catalyzes the conversion of HMG to mevalonate which is the rate determining step in the biosynthesis of cholesterol. Decreased production of cholesterol causes an increase in the number of LDL receptors and corresponding reduction in the concentration of LDL particles in the bloodstream. Reduction in the LDL level in the bloodstream reduces the risk of coronary artery disease. J.A.M.A. 1984 251 351 74.

Currently available statins include lovastatin simvastatin pravastatin fluvastatin cerivastatin and atorvastatin. Lovastatin disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 231 938 and simvastatin disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 444 784 are administered in the lactone form. After absorption the lactone ring is opened in the liver by chemical or enzymatic hydrolysis and the active hydroxy acid is generated.

Pravastatin disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 346 227 is administered as the sodium salt. Fluvastatin disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 739 073 and cerivastatin disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 006 530 and 5 177 080 also administered as the sodium salt are entirely synthetic compounds that are in part structurally distinct from the fungal derivatives of this class that contain a hexahydronaphthalene ring. Atorvastatin and two new superstatins rosuvastatin and pitavastatin are administered as calcium salts.

Rosuvastatin calcium monocalcium bis 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylaminopyrimidin 5 yl 3R 5S dihydroxy E 6 heptanoate is an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor developed by Shionogi for the once daily oral treatment of hyperlipidaemia Ann Rep Shionogi 1996 Direct communications Shionogi 8 Feb. 1999 25 Feb. 2000 . Rosuvastatin calcium has the following chemical formula 

Rosuvastatin calcium is marketed under the name CRESTOR for treatment of a mammal such as a human. According to the maker of CRESTOR it is administered in a daily dose of from about 5 mg to about 40 mg. For patients requiring less aggressive LDL C reductions or who have pre disposing factors for myopathy the 5 mg dose is recommended while 10 mg dose is recommended for the average patient 20 mg dose for patients with marked hyper cholesterolemia and aggressive lipid targets 190 mg dL and the 40 mg dose for patients who have not been responsive to lower doses.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 440 discloses and claims rosuvastatin its calcium salt 2 1 and its lactone form. The process of the 440 patent prepares rosuvastatin by reacting 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino 5 pyrimidinecarbaldehyde with methyl 3R 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 5 oxo 6 triphenylphosphoranylidene hexanoate in acetonitrile under reflux. The silyl group is then cleaved with hydrogen fluoride followed by reduction with sodium borohydride NaBH and diethylmethoxyborane in tetrahydrofuran THF to obtain a methyl ester of rosuvastatin.

The ester is then hydrolyzed with sodium hydroxide NaOH in ethanol at room temperature followed by removal of ethanol and addition of ether to obtain the sodium salt of rosuvastatin. The sodium salt is then converted to the calcium salt. The sodium salt is dissolved in water and maintained under a nitrogen atmosphere. Calcium chloride is then added to the solution resulting in precipitation of rosuvastatin calcium 2 1 . The process for preparation of the intermediates disclosed in the 440 patent is incorporated herein by reference.

The product mixture of a reaction rarely is a single compound pure enough to comply with pharmaceutical standards. Side products and byproducts of the reaction and adjunct reagents used in the reaction will in most cases be present. At certain stages during processing of the rosuvastatin contained in the product mixture into an active pharmaceutical ingredient API the rosuvastatin must be analyzed for purity typically by HPLC or GC analysis to determine if it is suitable for continued processing or ultimately for use in a pharmaceutical product. The rosuvastatin does not need to be absolutely pure. Absolute purity is a theoretical ideal that is unattainable. Rather there are purity standards intended to ensure that an API is not made less safe for clinical use because of the presence of impurities. In the United States the Food and Drug Administration guidelines recommend that applicants limit some impurities to below 0.1 .

Generally side products byproducts and adjunct reagents collectively impurities are identified spectroscopically and by other physical methods and then the impurities are associated with a peak position in a chromatogram or a spot on a TLC plate . Strobel p. 953 Strobel H. A. Heineman W. R. 3dd. Wiley Sons New York 1989 . Thereafter the impurity can be identified by its position in the chromatogram which is conventionally measured in minutes between injection of the sample on the column and elution of the particular component through the detector known as the retention time. This time period varies daily based upon the condition of the instrumentation and many other factors. To mitigate the effect that such variations have upon accurate identification of an impurity practitioners use relative retention time RRT to identify impurities. Strobel p. 922 . The RRT of an impurity is its retention time divided by the retention time of some reference marker. In theory rosuvastatin itself could be used as the reference marker but as a practical matter it is present in such overwhelming proportion in the mixture that it tends to saturate the column leading to irreproducible retention times i.e. the maximum of the peak corresponding to rosuvastatin tends to wander Strobel FIG. 24.8 b p. 879 contains an illustration of the sort of asymmetric peak that is observed when a column is overloaded . Thus it is sometimes desirable to select an alternative compound that is added to or is present in the mixture in an amount significant enough to be detectable and sufficiently low as not to saturate the column and to use that compound as the reference marker.

A compound in a relatively pure state can be used as a reference standard a reference marker is similar to a reference standard but it is used for qualitative analysis to quantify the amount of the compound in an unknown mixture. When the compound is used as an external standard a solution of a known concentration of the compound is analyzed by the same technique as the unknown mixture. Strobel p. 924 Snyder p. 549 Snyder L. R. Kirkland J. J. 2nd ed. John Wiley Sons New York 1979 . The amount of the compound in the mixture can be determined by comparing the magnitude of the detector response. See also U.S. Pat. No. 6 333 198 incorporated herein by reference.

The reference standard compound also can be used to quantify the amount of another compound in the mixture if the response factor which compensates for differences in the sensitivity of the detector to the two compounds has been predetermined. Strobel p. 894 . For this purpose the reference standard compound may be added directly to the mixture in which case it is called an internal standard. Strobel p. 925 Snyder p. 552 .

The reference standard compound can even be used as an internal standard when the unknown mixture contains some of the reference standard compound by using a technique called standard addition wherein at least two samples are prepared by adding known and differing amounts of the internal standard. Strobel pp. 391 393 Snyder pp. 571 572 . The proportion of detector response due to the reference standard compound that is originally in the mixture can be determined by extrapolation of a plot of detector response versus the amount of the reference standard compound that was added to each of the samples to zero. e.g. Strobel FIG. 11.4 p. 392 .

The present invention provides compounds that can be used as a reference standard and reference marker for quantification and identification of rosuvastatin and impurities present in batches of rosuvastatin.

A step in the synthesis of statins is reduction of a ketoester to yield the statin. For example with fluvastatin in U.S. Pat. No. 5 354 772 a ketoester of fluvastatin is reduced with EtB NaBHto obtain a diol ester. In another patent U.S. Pat. No. 5 189 164 EP 0 363 934 a ketoester of fluvastatin is reduced with diethylmethoxyborane to provide fluvastatin. Both these US patents relate to a process of purifying the FLV diol ester by chromatography only. In U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 440 relating to rosuvastatin and in the U.S. Pat. No. 5 856 336 relating to pitavastatin the statin diol esters are also isolated by chromatography. In example 8 of WO 03 004455 6 dibenzylcarbamoyl 5 hydroxy 3 oxo hexanoic acid tert butyl ester is reduced by hydrogenation at a pressure of 25 bar followed by drying of ethyl acetate to obtain a residue having a syn to anti ratio of 7.6 to 1.

Reduction of a ketoester is also disclosed in Tetrahedron 49 1997 2010 1993 . In the paper reduction of a ketoester which is not a particular statin is carried out by EtB NaBHor RU binap to provide a diol ester. In another paper a ketoester which is also not any particular statin is reduced by catecholborane in the optional presence of Rh PPh Cl. JOC 55 5190 5192 1990 .

The choice of reducing agents is an important factor in obtaining a statin from its corresponding ketoester since it influences the ratio of syn to anti obtained. The United States Pharmacopeia USP provides standards regarding the ratio of syn to anti that is used in a statin formulation. The USP requirements dictate use of a reducing agent that allows obtaining a high syn to anti ratio.

There is a need in the art for reducing agents which may be employed on an industrial scale on a cost effective basis and which provide a high ratio of syn to anti and overall yield.

The diol ester obtained after reduction is usually not isolated and is hydrolyzed to obtain a salt. For example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 003 080 the intermediate ester isn t isolated at all. In one instance however in Journal of Labeled Compounds Radiopharmaceuticals vol. XLI pages 1 7 1988 a fluvastatin diol ester is obtained from hexane containing 3 isopropanol by volume. See also TETRAHEDRON VOL. 53 31 10659 10670 1997 

We have yet found additional ways to increase the Syn to anti ratio of statins through isolation of the diol ester.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a rosuvastatin triol having the following structure 

In another embodiment the present invention provides a rosuvastatin triol in acid form has the following structure 

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a rosuvastatin triol in ester form having the following structure 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a rosuvastatin triol in salt form having the following structure 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a rosuvastatin triol in lactone form having the following structure 

In another embodiment the present invention provides each of the above forms of the triol in isolated or purified form substantially free of the corresponding rosuvastatin diol form.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a process for preparing a rosuvastatin triol C Cester comprising combining rosuvastatin C Cester with a solution of borane dimethylsulfide complex in a suitable organic solvent to obtain a reaction mixture combining the resulting reaction mixture with a solution of NaOH in water adding hydrogen peroxide HO and recovering the triol ester.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a process for preparing rosuvastatin triol C Cester comprising oxidizing rosuvastatin diol Cto Cester to obtain the rosuvastatin triol ester with a hydroxyl group at position .

In another embodiment the present invention provides a process comprising combining rosuvastatin C Cester with a solution of a borane in an organic solvent to obtain a reaction mixture combining the resulting reaction mixture with a solution of an inorganic base in water and adding peroxide and recovering the triol ester.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a process for reducing amount of impurities present in rosuvastatin calcium by measuring amount of rosuvastatin calcium triol in batches of rosuvastatin calcium selecting batches of the rosuvastatin calcium with desirable level of the triol and preparing pharmaceutical compositions with the selected rosuvastatin calcium batch.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a process for reducing amount of rosuvastatin triol calcium present in a mixture comprising rosuvastatin diol calcium and rosuvastatin triol calcium comprising measuring amount of rosuvastatin triol C Cester in batches of rosuvastatin diol C Cester selecting batches of the rosuvastatin diol C Cester with of the triol C Cester and preparing pharmaceutical compositions of rosuvastatin diol calcium with the selected rosuvastatin diol C Cester batch.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of determining the amount of an impurity in a sample of rosuvastatin ester preferable t butyl comprising measuring by GC or HPLC the area under a peak corresponding to rosuvastatin triol ester in a reference standard comprising a known amount of rosuvastatin triol ester preferably t butyl measuring by GC or HPLC the area under a peak corresponding to rosuvastatin triol ester in a sample comprising rosuvastatin triol and rosuvastatin diol esters preferably t butyl and determining the amount of the rosuvastatin triol ester in the sample by comparing the area of reference standard with that of the test sample.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a method of determining the amount of an impurity in a sample of rosuvastatin calcium comprising measuring by GC or HPLC the area under a peak corresponding to rosuvastatin triol calcium in a reference standard comprising a known amount of rosuvastatin triol calcium measuring by GC or HPLC the area under a peak corresponding to rosuvastatin triol calcium in a sample comprising rosuvastatin triol and rosuvastatin diol calcium salts and determining the amount of the triol calcium in the sample by comparing the area of reference standard with that of the test sample.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a method of identifying the relative retention time RRT of an impurity in a sample of rosuvastatin diol ester preferably t butyl comprising measuring by GC or HPLC the relative retention time RRT corresponding to rosuvastatin triol ester in a reference marker sample carrying out GC or HPLC with a test sample comprising of the rosuvastatin diol ester and rosuvastatin triol ester to obtain an GC or HPLC chromatogram with retention times and determining the relative retention time RRT of the triol ester in the sample by comparing the relative retention time RRT of the reference marker to the relative retention time RRT of the test sample.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of identifying the relative retention time RRT of an impurity in a sample of rosuvastatin diol calcium comprising measuring by GC or HPLC the relative retention time RRT corresponding to rosuvastatin triol calcium in a reference marker sample carrying out GC or HPLC with a test sample comprising of the rosuvastatin diol and rosuvastatin triol calcium salts to obtain an GC or HPLC chromatogram with retention times and determining the relative retention time RRT of the triol calcium in the sample by comparing the relative retention time RRT of the reference marker to the relative retention time RRT of the test sample.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a process for preparing rosuvastatin triol acid with the following structure 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a process for preparing rosuvastatin triol lactone with the following structure 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a process for preparing rosuvastatin triol acid with the following structure 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a process for preparing rosuvastatin triol salt with the following structure 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a process for preparing rosuvastatin diol ester comprising the steps of

In another embodiment the present invention provides a process for preparing rosuvastatin from a rosuvastatin diol ester having the formula 

In another embodiment the present invention provides a process for preparing rosuvastatin from a rosuvastatin ketoester having the formula 

As used herein the term diol refers to the two hydroxyl groups present on rosuvastatin. Diol rosuvastatin is used herein synonymously as rosuvastatin.

As used herein the term substantially free refers to having less than about 30 of the corresponding compound e.g. diol or diastereoisomer more preferably less than about 20 even more preferably less than about 10 and most preferably less than about 5 based on area percentage HPLC.

As used herein the term reference standard refers to a compound that may be used both for quantitative and qualitative analysis of an active pharmaceutical ingredient. For example the retention time of the compound in HPLC allows for setting a relative retention time thus making qualitative analysis possible. The concentration of the compound in solution before injection into an HPLC column allows for comparison of the areas under the peaks in an HPLC chromatogram thus making quantitative analysis possible.

A reference marker is used in qualitative analysis to identify components of a mixture based upon their position e.g. in a chromatogram or on a Thin Layer Chromatography TLC plate Strobel pp. 921 922 953 . For this purpose the compound does not necessarily have to be added to the mixture if it is present in the mixture. A reference marker is used only for qualitative analysis while a reference standard may be used for quantitative or qualitative analysis or both. Hence a reference marker is a subset of a reference standard and is included within the definition of a reference standard.

Although some of the knowledge of those in the art regarding reference standards has been described in general terms up to this point those skilled in the art also understand that the detector response can be for example the peak heights or integrated peak areas of a chromatogram obtained e.g. by UV or refractive index detection from the eluent of an HPLC system or e.g. flame ionization detection or thermal conductivity detection from the eluent of a gas chromatograph or other detector response e.g. the UV absorbance of spots on a fluorescent TLC plate. The position of the reference standard may be used to calculate the relative retention time for rosuvastatin and other impurities.

The present invention further provides rosuvastatin triol in lactone form has the following structure 

The present invention also provides each of the above forms of the rosuvastatin triol substantially free of the corresponding rosuvastatin diol form. Thus the present invention provides 

a Rosuvastatin triol C Cester substantially free of rosuvastatin diol C Cester. Also provided is rosuvastatin triol t butyl ester substantially free of rosuvastatin diol t butyl ester 

c Rosuvastatin triol salt preferably calcium salt substantially free of rosuvastatin diol salt preferably calcium salt and

The present invention also provides each of the above forms of the rosuvastatin triol in racemic 7S and 7R configuration. The 7S and 7R configurations are diastereoisomers.

a Rosuvastatin triol C Cester preferably t butyl ester in racemic 7S and 7R forms. In one embodiment the 7S form is substantially free of the 7R form. In one embodiment the 7R form is substantially free of the 7S form.

b Rosuvastatin triol acid in racemic 7S and 7R forms. In one embodiment the 7S form is substantially free of the 7R form. In one embodiment the 7R form is substantially free of the 7S form.

c Rosuvastatin triol salt such as calcium in racemic 7S and 7R forms. In one embodiment the 7S form is substantially free of the 7R form. In one embodiment the 7R form is substantially free of the 7S form.

d Rosuvastatin triol lactone in racemic 7S and 7R forms. In one embodiment the 7S form is substantially free of the 7R form. In one embodiment the 7R form is substantially free of the 7S form.

The present invention also provides a method for preparing rosuvastatin triol ester. The triol ester can be prepared by oxidizing rosuvastatin C Cester particularly t butyl ester. The oxidation of the ester can be carried out by combining rosuvastatin C Cester particularly t butyl ester with borane e.g. BH BH . Complexes of borane as well as various monoalkyl C C and dialkyl C C boranes may be used. Preferably a solution of borane dimethylsulfide complex in a suitable organic solvent is combined with the ester. The reaction mixture can be stirred. A solution of an inorganic base preferably NaOH in water is then combined with the reaction mixture followed by addition of HO preferably about 30 in water . The HOis preferably added dropwise. The temperature during HOaddition is preferably kept below about 50 C.

In addition to HO other oxidation reagents can be used. For example any other peroxides can be used including t Butyl Hydroperoxide TBHP and Magnesium monoperoxyphthalate hexahydrate MMPP .

The inorganic base is preferably an alkali metal base more preferably a hydroxide base such as NaOH KOH and LiOH. Another base that can be used is NHOH.

The organic phase can be separated and washed with water and or brine to remove water miscible by products such as borane by products e.g. HBO . It can also be washed with sodium sulphite to remove excess hydrogen peroxide. The organic phase can then be concentrated to obtain a residue. Concentration can be done by reducing the pressure to less than 1 atmosphere such as less than about 100 mmHg.

After the reaction if desired a precipitating agent such as ammonium chloride or another salt can be added to precipitate impurities out of the reaction mixture. Ammonium chloride is used to remove HBO the reaction by product. Instead of using ammonium chloride an acid such as acetic acid or HCl can be used to neutralize the basic mixture. The HBOcan be removed by washing with water.

The rosuvastatin triol ester can then be purified and isolated from the corresponding rosuvastatin diol ester by chromatography.

The triol ester can be converted to the triol salt by hydrolysis of the ester and addition of a suitable source of ions. To obtain the calcium salt either a combination of sodium hydroxide and calcium chloride can be used or calcium hydroxide can be used.

The rosuvastatin ester can be converted to the salt by suspending the ester in a mixture of an organic solvent and water mixture and combined with a base such as sodium hydroxide to obtain a solution. The organic solvent may be C Calcohol preferably ethanol. The organic solvent is then evaporated under reduced pressure followed by addition of calcium chloride which results in precipitation of the calcium salt of the triol. The precipitate can be recovered by conventional techniques such as filtration.

To obtain the rosuvastatin triol acid the salt is combined with an acid such as hydrochloric or sulfuric acid. In one embodiment Rosuvastatin triol calcium is suspended in an organic solvent such as dichloromethane to which aqueous HCl is added. The rosuvastatin triol acid is then isolated from the reaction mixture such as by separation of the organic phase followed by removal of organic solvent such as by evaporation under reduced pressure.

The acid can also be obtained after hydrolysis of the ester by acidification of the reaction mixture instead of addition of calcium chloride. Inorganic acids such as HCl and HSOcan be used.

The rosuvastatin lactone can then be obtained from the acid under conditions that favor lactonization. In one embodiment rosuvastatin triol calcium is dissolved in in an organic solvent such as acetonitrile to which aqueous HCl is added. The reaction mixture can then be stirred. The organic solvent and water can then be removed such as by evaporation under reduced pressure to obtain the lactone.

As stated above these compounds namely rosuvastatin triol acid salt lactone and ester can be used as reference marker standards. illustrates that the compounds of the present invention can used as reference standards to both quantify and identify amount of impurities present in a composition of rosuvastatin. Rosuvastatin triol calcium is close to rosuvastatin diol calcium on the column yet does not overlap with the peak for rosuvastatin. This lack of overlap is ideal since it can make quantification easier.

The present invention provides a process for reducing amount of rosuvastatin triol calcium present in a mixture comprising rosuvastatin calcium and rosuvastatin triol calcium comprising measuring amount of rosuvastatin calcium triol in batches of rosuvastatin diol calcium selecting batches of the rosuvastatin diol with desirable level of the triol and preparing pharmaceutical compositions with the selected rosuvastatin diol batch. Salts in general other than calcium can also be used in this process.

The present invention provides a process for reducing amount of rosuvastatin triol calcium present in a mixture comprising rosuvastatin diol calcium and rosuvastatin triol calcium comprising measuring amount of rosuvastatin triol C Cester in batches of rosuvastatin diol C Cester selecting batches of the rosuvastatin diol C Cester with of the triol C Cester and preparing pharmaceutical compositions of rosuvastatin diol calcium with the selected rosuvastatin diol C Cester batch. The ester is preferably t butyl.

The present invention provides a process for reducing amount of rosuvastatin triol calcium present in a mixture comprising rosuvastatin diol calcium and rosuvastatin triol calcium comprising measuring amount of rosuvastatin triol lactone in batches of rosuvastatin diol lactone selecting batches of the rosuvastatin diol lactone with desirable level of the triol lactone and preparing pharmaceutical compositions of rosuvastatin diol calcium with the selected rosuvastatin diol lactone batch.

The present invention provides a process for reducing amount of rosuvastatin triol calcium present in a mixture comprising rosuvastatin diol calcium and rosuvastatin triol calcium comprising measuring amount of rosuvastatin triol acid in batches of rosuvastatin diol acid selecting batches of the rosuvastatin diol acid with desirable level of the triol acid and preparing pharmaceutical compositions of rosuvastatin diol calcium with the selected rosuvastatin diol acid batch.

The present invention provides a method of determining the amount of an impurity in a sample of rosuvastatin diol ester preferable t butyl ester comprising measuring by GC or HPLC the area under a peak corresponding to rosuvastatin triol ester in a reference standard comprising a known amount of rosuvastatin triol ester preferably t butyl measuring by GC or HPLC the area under a peak corresponding to rosuvastatin triol ester in a test sample comprising rosuvastatin triol and rosuvastatin diol esters preferably t butyl and determining the amount of the triol ester in the sample by comparing the area of reference standard with that of the test sample.

The present invention provides a method of determining the amount of an impurity in a sample of rosuvastatin calcium comprising measuring by GC or HPLC the area under a peak corresponding to rosuvastatin triol calcium in a reference standard comprising a known amount of rosuvastatin triol calcium measuring by GC or HPLC the area under a peak corresponding to rosuvastatin triol calcium in a test sample comprising rosuvastatin triol and rosuvastatin diol calcium salts and determining the amount of the triol calcium in the sample by comparing the area of reference standard with that of the test sample. Salts in general other than calcium can also be used in this process.

The present invention provides a method of determining the amount of an impurity in a sample of rosuvastatin acid comprising measuring by GC or HPLC the area under a peak corresponding to rosuvastatin triol acid in a reference standard comprising a known amount of rosuvastatin triol acid measuring by GC or HPLC the area under a peak corresponding to rosuvastatin triol acid in a test sample comprising rosuvastatin acid and rosuvastatin diol acid and determining the amount of the triol acid in the sample by comparing the area of reference standard with that of the test sample.

The present invention provides a method of determining the amount of an impurity in a sample of rosuvastatin lactone comprising measuring by GC or HPLC the area under a peak corresponding to rosuvastatin triol lactone in a reference standard comprising a known amount of rosuvastatin triol lactone measuring by GC or HPLC the area under a peak corresponding to rosuvastatin triol lactone in test a sample comprising rosuvastatin triol lactone and rosuvastatin diol lactone and determining the amount of the triol lactone in the sample by comparing the area of reference standard with that of the test sample.

The present invention provides a method of identifying the relative retention time RRT of an impurity in a sample of rosuvastatin diol ester preferably t butyl comprising measuring by GC or HPLC the relative retention time RRT corresponding to rosuvastatin triol ester in a reference marker sample carrying out GC or HPLC with a test sample comprising of the rosuvastatin ester and rosuvastatin triol ester to obtain an HPLC or GC chromatogram with retention times and determining the relative retention time RRT of the triol ester in the sample by comparing the relative retention time RRT of the reference marker to the relative retention time RRT of the test sample. Preferably the rosuvastatin diol and rosuvastatin triol ester are tert butyl esters.

Accordingly in another embodiment the present invention provides a method of determining the relative retention time RRT of an impurity in a sample of rosuvastatin diol calcium comprising measuring by GC or HPLC the relative retention time RRT corresponding to rosuvastatin triol calcium in a reference marker sample carrying out GC or HPLC with a test sample comprising of the rosuvastatin diol and rosuvastatin triol calcium salts to obtain an HPLC chromatogram with retention times and determining the relative retention time RRT of the triol calcium in the sample by comparing the relative retention time RRT of the reference marker to the relative retention time RRT of the test sample. Salts in general other than calcium can also be used in this process.

Accordingly in another embodiment the present invention provides a method of identifying the relative retention time RRT of an impurity in a sample of rosuvastatin diol acid comprising measuring by GC or HPLC the relative retention time RRT corresponding to rosuvastatin triol acid in a reference marker sample carrying out GC or HPLC with a test sample comprising of the rosuvastatin diol acid and rosuvastatin triol acid to obtain an HPLC chromatogram with retention times and determining the relative retention time RRT of the triol acid in the sample by comparing the relative retention time RRT of the reference marker to the relative retention time RRT of the test sample.

Accordingly in another embodiment the present invention provides a method of determining the relative retention time RRT of an impurity in a sample of rosuvastatin diol lactone comprising measuring by GC or HPLC the relative retention time RRT corresponding to rosuvastatin triol lactone in a reference marker sample carrying out GC or HPLC with a test sample comprising of the rosuvastatin diol acid and rosuvastatin triol acid to obtain an HPLC chromatogram with retention times and determining the relative retention time RRT of the triol acid in the sample by comparing the relative retention time RRT of the reference marker to the relative retention time RRT of the test sample.

The present invention provides methods for reduction of a statin ketoester by use of 9 methoxy 9 bora bicyclo 3.3.1 nonane B methoxy 9 BBN as a complexant agent. Complexation with B methoxy 9 BBN BM 9 BBN provides ideal selectivity. The requirement for fluvastatin diol ester is no more than about 0.8 by area HPLC of the anti product. The reduction process of the present invention yields in case of fluvastatin about 0.5 to 0.6 anti by area HPLC and other crystallization steps yield less than about 0.2 anti by area HPLC. Additionally B methoxy 9 BBN may be used in a molar ratio as low as about 1 1.

The ketoester reduced in the present invention which is exemplified by fluvastatin and rosuvastatin has the following for

As used herein Rrefers to an organic radical that is bonded to the diol pentanoic ester group and is inert to reduction with the reducing agent and allows for therapeutic activity. By inert to reduction it is meant that the reducing agent employed does not reduce the R Group according to the general knowledge of one of skill in the art. Depending on the statin the R radical can be 

pravastatin 1 2 6 7 8 8a Hexahydro 6 hydroxy 2 methyl 8 2 methyl 1 oxobutoxy 1 naphthalene ethyl radical.

atorvastatin 2 4 fluorophenyl 5 1 methylethyl 3 phenyl 4 phenylamino carbonyl 1H pyrrole ethyl radical.

rosuvastatin 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 1 methylethyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino 5 pyrimidinyl ethylene radical.

The R radical can also be that of the open ring form i.e. the dihydroxy acid of simvastatin or lovastatin. These open ring forms also have a diol pentanoic acid group. As used herein the terms simvastatin and lovastatin include both the lactone form and the open ring form unless otherwise indicated by a formula. When the statin is simvastatin or lovastatin the R radical is simvastatin 1 2 6 7 8 8a Hexahydro 2 6 dimethyl 8 2 2 dimethyl 1 oxobutoxy 1 naphthalene ethyl radical. lovastatin 1 2 6 7 8 8a Hexahydro 2 6 dimethyl 1 8 2 methyl 1 oxobutoxy 1 naphthalene ethyl radical.

The reduction of the statin ketoester with B Methoxy 9 BBN includes combining the statin ketoester and a solvent cooling the solution to a temperature of about 50 C. to about 80 C. adding B Methoxy 9 BBN and maintaining the reaction mixture for at least about 30 minutes adding a source of hydride ions and maintaining the reaction mixture for an additional period of at least about 2 hours adding a quenching agent and recovering the statin diol ester. The solvent may include Cto Calcohols such as methanol dipolar solvents such as tetrahydrofuran Cto Cethers cyclic or acyclic or a mixture thereof. Preferably the solution is cooled to about 70 C. to about 80 C. An optimum temperature is about 70 C. which allows for greater selectivity. The source of hydride ions may be sodium borohydride potassium borohydride and lithium borohydride preferably sodium borohydride. The quenching agent may be any one of hydrogen peroxide sodium carbonate 1.5HO or NaBO.HO 3 chloroperbenzoic acid ammonium chloride aqueous solution of HCl acetic acid oxone sodium hypochlorite dimethyl disulfide diethanolamine hydroxylamine O sulfonic acid acetone preferably hydrogen peroxide. The quenching agent is used for terminating the reaction by reacting it with the remaining reducing agent.

After quenching the reaction the statin diol ester may be recovered from the reaction mixture by adding a Cto Cester and water separating the organic phase from the two phase system that formed and removing the solvent by any technique known in the art such as evaporation .

In one embodiment of the invention the process of preparing a Cto Calkyl ester of rosuvastatin preferably t butyl rosuvastatin ester TBRE includes adding a source of hydride ions to a solution of the rosuvastatin ester and MeO 9 BBN. This process includes forming a complex of the keto ester and MeO 9 BBN followed by reduction with a source of hydride ions.

In a preferred embodiment the process includes the steps of providing a solution of rosuvastatin C Cketo ester and MeO 9 BBN in an organic solvent adding a source of hydride ions to the solution and maintaining the solution for a time sufficient to obtain the corresponding diol ester.

The solution of rosuvastatin keto ester and MeO 9 BBN may be prepared by combining the rosuvastatin keto ester and MeO 9 BBN with a suitable organic solvent. Preferably a dilution of MeO 9 BBN of about 30 to about 60 volumes vs. rosuvastatin keto ester is used in the process of the invention.

Suitable organic solvents include Cto Calcohols polar solvents cyclic or acyclic Cto Cethers and mixtures of these. Specific examples of solvents include methylene chloride toluene methyl t butyl ether di ethyl ether tetrahydrofuran dioxane methanol ethanol isopropanol and n butanol.

In one preferred embodiment the reduction of rosuvastatin ketoester to rosuvastatin diol ester may be carried out in a mixture of methanol and THF. Other solvents as specified above may be used. The optimum temperature of the reduction is at a temperature below about 70 C. more preferably about 78 C. B Methoxy 9 BBN is added to a solution of the ester at this optimal temperature followed by addition of a suitable source of hydride ions. The source of hydride ions may be sodium borohydride potassium borohydride and lithium borohydride preferably sodium borohydride. Sodium borohydride is a preferred source of hydride ions in this embodiment of the invention.

The reaction may be quenched after its completion. Preferably the quenching agent is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen peroxide 3 chloroperbenzoic acid ammonium chloride aqueous solution of HCl acetic acid oxone sodium hypochlorite dimethyl disulfide diethanolamine hydroxylamine O sulfonic acid and acetone. More preferably the quenching agent is hydrogen peroxide. Rosuvastatin diol ester may be recovered from a biphasic mixture of water and a water immiscible organic solvent where the ester moves into the organic phase. It may then be washed under basic and brine conditions. Preferred water immiscible organic solvents are ethyl acetate toluene or methyl ethyl ketone with ethyl acetate being most preferred.

According to USP pharmacopoeia the level of anti isomer should be NMT 0.8 area by HPLC according to USP HPLC method . In order to increase the syn to anti isomer ratio the statin diol ester may be crystallized.

In one embodiment fluvastatin diol ester in the present invention may be crystallized from the following solvents Cto Cketone such as acetone Cto Calcohol such as ethanol isopropyl alcohol 1 propanol 2 propanol 1 butanol and 2 butanol Cto Cester other than ethyl acetate such as isopropylacetate isobutylacetate or methyl acetate C Cethers other than MTBE methyl t butyl ether and mixtures thereof. The crystallization solvent may also be a mixture of MTBE and Cto Calcohols preferably MTBE and IPA iso propanol . The crystallization includes the steps of dissolving the statin diol ester in said solvent at elevated temperature cooling the solution and recovering the crystallized fluvastatin diol ester. Preferably the solvent is selected from the group consisting of acetone IPA isopropylacetate acetonitrile mixtures thereof with or without water and a mixture of IPA MTBE. The elevated temperature is preferably above about 30 C. more preferably above about 40 C. and most preferably about reflux temperature. The precipitate obtained may be recovered by conventional techniques such as filtration and concentration. Preferably the fluvastatin is dissolved at reflux. Seeding may also be used for crystallization.

The fluvastatin diol ester may also be crystallized by using a solvent and an anti solvent. This comprises the steps of dissolving the statin diol ester in a Cto Cketone solvent such as acetone methylethylketone and methyl isopropyl ketone at elevated temperature adding a Cto Csaturated hydrocarbon such as cyclic and acyclic heptane and hexane cooling the solution and recovering the crystallized diol ester. Preferably the cooling is at a temperature of from about 10 C. to about 25 C. Preferably the elevated temperature is the reflux temperature. In one embodiment a Cto Calcohol is used with less than 50 hydrocarbon by volume more preferably without a hydrocarbon.

The term anti solvent refers to a liquid that when added to a solution of fluvastatin diol ester in a solvent induces precipitation of fluvastatin sodium. The anti solvent may also be in a binary mixture with the solvent when the solution is prepared. Precipitation of fluvastatin diol ester is induced by the anti solvent when addition of the anti solvent causes fluvastatin diol ester to precipitate from the solution more rapidly or to a greater extent than fluvastatin diol ester precipitates from a solution containing an equal concentration of fluvastatin diol ester in the same solvent when the solution is maintained under the same conditions for the same period of time but without adding the anti solvent. Precipitation can be perceived visually as a clouding of the solution or formation of distinct particles of fluvastatin diol ester suspended in or on the surface of the solution or collected on the walls or at the bottom of the vessel containing the solution.

The above crystallizations may allow for increasing the syn to anti ratio so that the level of the anti isomer is about 0.2 or less area by HPLC. Preferably the level of the anti isomer is about 0.04 or less area by HPLC.

In another embodiment rosuvastatin diol ester is crystallized or slurried. Crystallization of the diol ester includes preparing a solution of the C1 C4 ester including TBRE in a solvent selected from the group consisting of C Calcohols C Cesters C Cketones C Cethers Cto Caromatic hydrocarbons PGME propylene glycol monomethyl ether water acetonitrile and mixtures thereof cooling the solution to crystallize the diol ester and recovering the crystallized diol ester. Slurrying can be carried out in the same solvents followed by recovery of the diol ester. Preferably the recovery comprises filtering the slurry to obtain a precipitate. Preferably the filtration is under reduced pressure. Preferably the obtained precipitate is further dried.

Most preferably the solvent of crystallization is toluene or a mixture of methanol water or acetonitrile water.

The diol ester may be further converted into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the statin or a lactone. In one embodiment the diol ester obtained is reacted with sodium or calcium hydroxide to obtain the sodium or calcium salt. It is also possible to first obtain the sodium salt by reaction with sodium hydroxide and then convert the sodium salt to calcium salt by using a source of calcium such as calcium chloride or calcium acetate. The basic hydrolysis of the statin diol ester may be carried out with one or more equivalents of an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal base such as NaOH or Ca OH in organic solvents such as Cto Cethers tetrahydrofuran IPE acetonitrile ACN Cto Calcohols MeOH EtOH IPA propanol butanol etc. Cto Cketones or esters acetone methyl ethyl ketone methyl isopropyl ketone ethyl acetate . The hydrolysis may also be carried out with water a mixture of the above solvents or a mixture of water and the above solvents preferably at room temperature or by heating. The lactone particularly for fluvastatin may be obtained by treating the acid form with an acid such as HCl.

Pharmaceutical formulations of the present invention contain pharmaceutically acceptable salts or lactone form of the statin with a high syn to anti ratio and or high purity including substantially free of rosuvastatin triol calcium. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include those of alkali and alkaline earth metals preferably calcium. In addition to the active ingredient s the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may contain one or more excipients or adjuvants. Selection of excipients and the amounts to use may be readily determined by the formulation scientist based upon experience and consideration of standard procedures and reference works in the field.

Diluents increase the bulk of a solid pharmaceutical composition and may make a pharmaceutical dosage form containing the composition easier for the patient and care giver to handle. Diluents for solid compositions include for example microcrystalline cellulose e.g. Avicel microfine cellulose lactose starch pregelitinized starch calcium carbonate calcium sulfate sugar dextrates dextrin dextrose dibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate tribasic calcium phosphate kaolin magnesium carbonate magnesium oxide maltodextrin mannitol polymethacrylates e.g. Eudragit potassium chloride powdered cellulose sodium chloride sorbitol and talc.

Solid pharmaceutical compositions that are compacted into a dosage form such as a tablet may include excipients whose functions include helping to bind the active ingredient and other excipients together after compression. Binders for solid pharmaceutical compositions include acacia alginic acid carbomer e.g. carbopol carboxymethylcellulose sodium dextrin ethyl cellulose gelatin guar gum hydrogenated vegetable oil hydroxyethyl cellulose hydroxypropyl cellulose e.g. Klucel hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose e.g. Methocel liquid glucose magnesium aluminum silicate maltodextrin methylcellulose polymethacrylates povidone e.g. Kollidon Plasdone pregelatinized starch sodium alginate and starch.

The dissolution rate of a compacted solid pharmaceutical composition in the patient s stomach may be increased by the addition of a disintegrant to the composition. Disintegrants include alginic acid carboxymethylcellulose calcium carboxymethylcellulose sodium e.g. Ac Di Sol Primellose colloidal silicon dioxide croscarmellose sodium crospovidone e.g. Kollidon Polyplasdone guar gum magnesium aluminum silicate methyl cellulose microcrystalline cellulose polacrilin potassium powdered cellulose pregelatinized starch sodium alginate sodium starch glycolate e.g. Explotab and starch.

Glidants can be added to improve the flowability of a non compacted solid composition and to improve the accuracy of dosing. Excipients that may function as glidants include colloidal silicon magnesium trisilicate powdered cellulose starch talc and tribasic calcium phosphate.

When a dosage form such as a tablet is made by the compaction of a powdered composition the composition is subjected to pressure from a punch and dye. Some excipients and active ingredients have a tendency to adhere to the surfaces of the punch and dye which can cause the product to have pitting and other surface irregularities. A lubricant can be added to the composition to reduce adhesion and ease the release of the product from the dye. Lubricants include magnesium stearate calcium stearate glyceryl monostearate glyceryl palmitostearate hydrogenated castor oil hydrogenated vegetable oil mineral oil polyethylene glycol sodium benzoate sodium lauryl sulfate sodium stearyl fumarate stearic acid talc and zinc stearate.

Flavoring agents and flavor enhancers make the dosage form more palatable to the patient. Common flavoring agents and flavor enhancers for pharmaceutical products that may be included in the composition of the present invention include maltol vanillin ethyl vanillin menthol citric acid fumaric acid ethyl maltol and tartaric acid.

Solid and liquid compositions may also be dyed using any pharmaceutically acceptable colorant to improve their appearance and or facilitate patient identification of the product and unit dosage level.

In liquid pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention statin and any other solid excipients are dissolved or suspended in a liquid carrier such as water vegetable oil alcohol polyethylene glycol propylene glycol or glycerin.

Liquid pharmaceutical compositions may contain emulsifying agents to disperse uniformly throughout the composition an active ingredient or other excipient that is not soluble in the liquid carrier. Emulsifying agents that may be useful in liquid compositions of the present invention include for example gelatin egg yolk casein cholesterol acacia tragacanth chondrus pectin methyl cellulose carbomer cetostearyl alcohol and cetyl alcohol.

Liquid pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may also contain a viscosity enhancing agent to improve the mouth feel of the product and or coat the lining of the gastrointestinal tract. Such agents include acacia alginic acid bentonite carbomer carboxymethylcellulose calcium or sodium cetostearyl alcohol methyl cellulose ethylcellulose gelatin guar gum hydroxyethyl cellulose hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose maltodextrin polyvinyl alcohol povidone propylene carbonate propylene glycol alginate sodium alginate sodium starch glycolate starch tragacanth and xanthan gum.

Sweetening agents such as sorbitol saccharin sodium saccharin sucrose aspartame fructose mannitol and invert sugar may be added to improve the taste.

Preservatives and chelating agents such as alcohol sodium benzoate butylated hydroxy toluene butylated hydroxyanisole and ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid may be added at levels safe for ingestion to improve storage stability.

According to the present invention a liquid composition may also contain a buffer such as gluconic acid lactic acid citric acid or acetic acid sodium gluconate sodium lactate sodium citrate or sodium acetate.

Selection of excipients and the amounts used may be readily determined by the formulation scientist based upon experience and consideration of standard procedures and reference works in the field.

The solid compositions of the present invention include powders granulates aggregates and compacted compositions. The dosages include dosages suitable for oral buccal rectal parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular and intravenous inhalant and ophthalmic administration. Although the most suitable administration in any given case will depend on the nature and severity of the condition being treated the most preferred route of the present invention is oral. The dosages may be conveniently presented in unit dosage form and prepared by any of the methods well known in the pharmaceutical arts.

Dosage forms include solid dosage forms like tablets powders capsules suppositories sachets and troches as well as liquid syrups suspensions and elixirs.

The dosage form of the present invention may be a capsule containing the composition preferably a powdered or granulated solid composition of the invention within either a hard or soft shell. The shell may be made from gelatin and optionally contain a plasticizer such as glycerin and sorbitol and an opacifying agent or colorant.

The active ingredient and excipients may be formulated into compositions and dosage forms according to methods known in the art.

A composition for tableting or capsule filling may be prepared by wet granulation. In wet granulation some or all of the active ingredients and excipients in powder form are blended and then further mixed in the presence of a liquid typically water that causes the powders to clump into granules. The granulate is screened and or milled dried and then screened and or milled to the desired particle size. The granulate may then be tableted or other excipients may be added prior to tableting such as a glidant and or a lubricant.

A tableting composition may be prepared conventionally by dry blending. For example the blended composition of the actives and excipients may be compacted into a slug or a sheet and then comminuted into compacted granules. The compacted granules may subsequently be compressed into a tablet.

As an alternative to dry granulation a blended composition may be compressed directly into a compacted dosage form using direct compression techniques. Direct compression produces a more uniform tablet without granules. Excipients that are particularly well suited for direct compression tableting include microcrystalline cellulose spray dried lactose dicalcium phosphate dihydrate and colloidal silica. The proper use of these and other excipients in direct compression tableting is known to those in the art with experience and skill in particular formulation challenges of direct compression tableting.

A capsule filling of the present invention may comprise any of the aforementioned blends and granulates that were described with reference to tableting however they are not subjected to a final tableting step.

Having thus described the invention with reference to particular preferred embodiments and illustrated it with Examples those in the art can appreciate modifications to the invention as described and illustrated that do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention as disclosed in the specification. The Examples are set forth to aid in understanding the invention but are not intended to and should not be construed to limit its scope in any way. The examples do not include detailed descriptions of conventional methods. Such methods are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and are described in numerous publications.

Having described the invention with reference to certain preferred embodiments other embodiments will become apparent to one skilled in the art from consideration of the specification. The invention is further defined by reference to the following examples describing in detail the preparation of the composition and methods of use of the invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that many modifications both to materials and methods may be practiced without departing from the scope of the invention.

Triol was isolated by two chromatographic separations. First separation was performed on an RP 18 column RediSep C 18 Reversed Phase Column using a gradient from 40 to 45 of EtOH in water. The second separation was performed on normal silica column RediSep Normal Phase Disposable Column using a gradient from 0 to 1 of EtOH in CHClas an eluent. Purity 93 . MS ES M H 556 M Na 578

Rosu triol Ca 0.5 g is suspended in dichloromethane 5 mL and HCl 1N in water 1 mL is added. After stirring for 15 minutes phases are separated and organic phase is concentrated in vacuum giving the residue which contains mainly the product. It may be additionally purified by column chromatography silica gel dichloromethane methanol mixtures as eluent giving pure Rosu triol acid.

Rosu triol Ca 4 g is dissolved in acetonitrile 40 mL and HCl 1N in water 40 mL is added. The mixture is stirred at room temperature overnight. Acetonitrile and water are removed by distillation at reduced pressure. The residue containing the product may be additionally purified by flash chromatography silica gel hexane ethyl acetate mixtures as eluent giving pure rosu triol lactone.

2 g of pure triol ester 3.7 mmol is suspended in EtOH 10 mL water 6 mL mixture. Saturated NaOH solution 0.35 g 4.1 mmole is added dropwise at room temperature and the mixture is stirred for 2 h. The solution is concentrated under vacuum to remove EtOH. Calcium salt is precipitated from the water solution by addition of CaCl 0.41 g 3.7 mmole at 40 C. upon stirring. Stirring is continued for 1 h at room temperature and the precipitate is filtered washed with water and dried giving Rosu Ca triol.

A 1 L triple jacket reactor covered with aluminum foil was loaded with FKE tBu 30 g THF Tetrahydrofuran CP 300 ml and Methanol CP 60 ml . The solution was cooled to 70 C. and then BM 9 BBN 1M solution in Hexanes 71 ml. was added. The mixture was stirred at 70 C. for 30 minutes. Sodium borohydride 2.4 g was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at 70 C. for about 2 hours monitoring by HPLC for the consumption of FKE tBu . A solution of 30 Hydrogen peroxide 48 ml was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 19.5 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc ethyl acetate 150 ml water 150 ml and Brine 105 ml . The phases were separated and the organic layer was washed with saturated solution of NaHCO 1 120 ml saturated solution of NaSO 1 120 ml and Brine 1 120 ml . The organic layer was evaporated under vacuum to dryness.

The obtained solid residue was dissolved in acetone 90 ml at reflux temperature while the flask was covered with aluminum foil. Then n Heptane 210 ml was added at reflux. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and stirred at this temperature for about 18 hours. The product was isolated by filtration under nitrogen atmosphere washed with n Heptane 100 ml and dried at 40 C. in a vacuum oven for 24 hours to obtain 21.9 g 73 of FDE tBu crude. First crystallization Syn anti 99.0 0.45.

FDE tBu crude syn anti 99.0 0.45 was dissolved in Acetone 116 ml at reflux temperature while the flask was covered with aluminum foil. Then n Heptane 252 ml was added at reflux. The mixture was cooled to 37 C. during 1 hour stirred at this temperature for 1 hour and cooled to 20 C. during 1 hour. The obtained slurry was stirred at 20 C. for 15 hours. The product was isolated by filtration under nitrogen atmosphere washed with n Heptane 3 66 ml and dried at 40 C. in a vacuum oven for 24 hours to obtain 18.9 g 90 of FDE tBu cryst syn anti 99.8 0.17 .

Water 56 ml ACN Acetonitrile 200 ml and FDE tBu 40 gr are added to a 1 L stirred reactor. At 25 deg. 7.5 gr of 47 NaOH solution are added and the mixture is heated to 35 C. The mixture becomes clear during the hydrolysis. End of reaction is determined by HPLC 3 4 hr . The mixture is then cooled to 25 C. ACN Acetonitrile 600 ml is added to the mixture causing precipitation of FLV Na crystals. The mixture is stirred for 5 hr and then filtered under vacuum. The wet product is washed with 120 ml of ACN Acetonitrile . The wet product is dried in a vacuum oven at 40 C. to obtain FLV Na form XIV crystals. Yield 87 

Fluvastatin diol methyl ester 3.0 g was added to solution of NaOH 1 eq. in water 0.75 ml and ethanol 7.5 ml . The mixture was heated to reflux and stirred until the raw material wasn t observed by HPLC. After this time 58 ml of MTBE were dripped to the solution during 1.5 hr. Turbidity appeared in the solution which was cooled slowly to room temperature and stirred over night. The product was isolated by filtration under nitrogen washed with MTBE 50 ml and dried at 50 C. in a vacuum oven for 24 hours to obtain 2.21 grams 72.3 of fluvastatin sodium.

Fluvastatin diol methyl ester FDE ME 4.0 g was dissolved in acetone 40 ml . A solution of NaOH 0.38 gr in MeOH 4 ml was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 hr. The product was isolated by filtration under nitrogen washed with acetone 20 ml and dried at 50 C. in a vacuum oven for 26 hours to obtain 3.35 gr 82.2 of fluvastatin sodium.

Crude FLV diol tert butyl ester that prepared as mentioned in the reduction procedure with BM 9 BBM 5.77 gr Syn anti 98.6 0.88 was dissolved in IPA 60 ml by heating to reflux. After 30 minutes the clear solution was cooled to room temperature and stirred over night. The solution was then concentrated approximately 17 ml of IPA was evaporated and stirred at room temperature overnight. The product was isolated by vacuum filtration under nitrogen flow washed with IPA 30 ml then dried in vacuum oven at 40 C. for to obtain FLV diol tert butyl ester. First crystallization Syn anti 98.9 0.61.

Crude FLV diol t Butyl ester 4.0 g was dissolved in acetone 18.5 ml at reflux temperature. After 45 minutes the clear solution was cooled to room temperature to obtain a massive precipitate. The suspension was diluted with Acetone 10 ml and the product was isolated by vacuum filtration under nitrogen flow washed with Acetone 4 10 ml and dried in a vacuum oven at 50 C. for 24 hours to obtain FLV diol t Butyl ester 1.7 g 42 . First crystallization Syn anti 98.8 0.27 Second crystallization Syn anti 99.6 0.04.

FDE tBu 3 gr Syn anti 98.6 0.88 was dissolved in Isobutylacetate 48 ml by reflux. The solution was cooled to room temperature and stirred over night. The product was isolated by vacuum filtration washed with isobutylacetate and dried in vacuum oven at 50 C. for 24 hours to obtain FDE tBu 1.92 gr 64 yield . First crystallization Syn anti 99.6 0.2.

FDE tBu 3 gr syn anti 98.6 0.88 was dissolved in IPA 15 ml by reflux and MTBE 30 ml was added. The solution was cooled to room temperature and stirred over night. The product was isolated by vacuum filtration washed with a solution of MTBE IPA 1 1 v v 20 ml and dried in vacuum oven at 40 deg for 24 hours to obtain FDE tBu 1.5 gr 51 yield . Syn anti 99.6 0.20

A 100 mL 3 necked flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer rubber septum and nitrogen bubbler was charged with TB 21 1.0 g tetrahydrofuran 47 mL and methanol 13.5 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature until all TB 21 was dissolved. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 78 C. B OMe 9 BBN 2.05 mL 1M in Hexanes was added via a syringe at 78 C. and the solution was stirred for about 30 minutes. NaBH 0.078 g was added at 78 C. and the solution was stirred for about 3 hours. HO 0.8 mL 30 in water was added at 78 C. The solution was then allowed to reach room temperature and the solution was evaporated to dryness. Ethyl acetate 5 mL water 5 mL and NaCl saturated 3.5 mL was added to the residue. The organic phase was separated and washed with saturated NaHCO 4 mL saturated NaSO 4 mL and saturated NaCl 4 mL . The combined organic layers were concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain a residue of the diol TB 22. 1.19 g 92.0 . Diastereoisomer content is 0.37 .

TBRE 2 g 0.23 diastereoisomers was dissolved in Toluene 7 ml by heating to approximately 60 C. The solution was then allowed to cool to room temperature and was cooled afterwards in an ice bath to 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at this temperature overnight. The solid was then filtered under reduced pressure washed and dried at 50 C. under reduced pressure for 18 hrs to get 1.59 g of TBRE 0.08 diastereoisomers .

TBRE 1 g 1.1 of diastereoisomers was suspended in MeOH 5 ml while stirring at ambient temperature overnight. The solid was then filtered under reduced pressure washed and dried at 45 C. under atmospheric pressure for 18 hrs to obtain 0.60 g of TBRE diastereoisomers 0.51 

A 1000 ml reactor equipped with a mechanical stirrer was charged with EtOH 100 mL water 60 ml t Butyl Rosuvastatin 20 g and NaBH 0.1 g . To this suspension NaOH 47 1.1 eq 3.5 g was added dropwise at 25 5 C. and the mixture was stirred at 25 5 C. for two hours. The mixture was then filtered under reduced pressure with a Sinter to eliminate the active carbon present in the solution.

To this suspension water 140 ml was added and the reaction mixture was acidified with HCl 0.1M until PH 8 10. The mixture was then washed with Toluene 100 ml and stirred at 25 5 C. for half an hour. The aqueous layer was isolated. To the aqueous phase active carbon was added and the suspension was stirred at 25 5 C. for 30 min. The mixture was filtered under reduced pressure with Sinter and Hyflo to eliminate the active carbon present in the solution. Thereafter the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure at 40 C. to half the solution volume.

Make up of the solution was performed to 10 volumes of water versus TBRE. The solution was heated to 40 45 C. CaCl 4.13 g was added dropwise to this solution over 30 90 min at 38 45 C. The suspension was then cooled to 25 5 C. stirred at 25 5 C. for 1 hr filtered and washed with water 4 20 ml to get a powdery compound 17.3 g dry 92 .

The resulting solution was placed in a flask and heated to 40 C. Solid CaCl 0.25 g was added portionwise to this solution while stirring. The resulting mixture was then cooled to 25 5 C. stirred at 25 5 C. for 1 hr filtered and washed with water to get a powdery product which was dried in vacuum at 50 C.

