---

title: Systems and methods for monitoring time-dependent subsurface changes
abstract: Systems and methods for monitoring time-dependant subsurface changes from imperfectly repeated data measurements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07843766&OS=07843766&RS=07843766
owner: Landmark Graphics Corporation
number: 07843766
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080324
---
The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for monitoring subsurface changes over time. More particularly the present invention relates to monitoring time dependent subsurface changes from imperfectly repeated data measurements.

In the field of earth sciences seismic sounding is used for exploring the subterranean geology of an earth formation. The acquisition of seismic data is typically accomplished by transmitting an acoustic signal into the earth and recording reflections of the signal. The layers of rock within the earth differ in their acoustic properties and these changes in properties produce different reflections of the seismic signal. Data acquisition therefore involves energy sources generating signals propagating into the earth and reflecting from subsurface geological structures. The reflected signals are recorded by receivers on or near the surface of the earth. The reflected signals are stored as time series pre stack seismic traces that consist of amplitudes of acoustic energy which vary as a function of time receiver position and source position. Because subsurface geological structures are different depending on formation layers within the earth the variation in the amplitudes of the reflected acoustic signals are indicative of the physical properties of these structures from which the signals reflect. A similar technique can be used for offshore oil and gas exploration. In either application subsurface sedimentary structures that trap oil such as faults and domes are mapped by the reflective signals.

The seismic data are generally processed to create acoustic images from which data interpreters may create images of the subsurface formations. Data processing therefore involves procedures that vary depending on the nature of the seismic data acquired and the geological structure being interpreted. A single echo reflection train is usually called a trace. A trace generally represents a combination of many sinusoidal waves as a function of time. The strength of the recorded reflections rises and falls over a period of several seconds and is recorded in digital form or converted to digital form for processing and analysis. The variations in the trace generally consist of amplitude characteristics such as peaks zero crossings and troughs.

The use of seismic data to detect subsurface change in formations by means of surface or other remote geophysical measurements made over a period of time has a long history of scientific study and commercial application. Commercial applications include for example monitoring i pollutant discharge ii aquifer levels and breaches iii the effectiveness of enhanced oil recovery methods and iv sequestration of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide. In the field of petroleum exploration and production seismic data acquired for such monitoring are often termed time lapse or 4 D seismic data sets or surveys and may be used to monitor subsurface changes such as expansion contraction and fracturing in a formation producing hydrocarbons that are induced by the extraction injection of fluids and gases. The analysis of such changes is pertinent to determining enhancing and monitoring production efficiency over time.

In practice however the detection and analysis of changes between time lapse seismic data sets is impaired because it may be difficult or impossible to recreate the precise instrument positioning earth coupling source signature and receiver characteristics from one geophysical survey to the next. A truly repeated survey should have identical subsurface responses except where affected by actual subsurface changes. There is therefore a major commercial emphasis on improving the repeatability of field acquisition. While such approaches can indeed be effective they are costly in time and financial resources to implement. Furthermore extensive reprocessing of the time lapse seismic surveys is very often needed in order to make them look as much alike as possible leveraging the assumption that only a small portion of the subsurface will change over time. Generally traces in each survey must be interpolated to precisely align them on a common grid and various wavelet adjustments and data warping are applied to make the data sets match.

In addition to their cost and complexity these conventional approaches to 4 D seismic survey acquisition and analysis do not handle passive seismic monitoring wherein sources are not used and receivers are simply positioned above or around the reservoir and continuously record naturally occurring seismic energy. Such passive data presents two major obstacles to analysis i the energy source is inherently nonrepeatable and ii the seismic energy reflected from the reservoir during the continuous recording does not arrive separated either in time or space from energy reflected from strata above or below the reservoir. The latter issue is addressed in the field of seismic interferometry with published techniques such as those described by Artman 2006 Stanford Exploration Project Report SEP 125 p. 1 18 by Sneider Wapenaar and Weler 2007 Phys. Rev. E 75 036103 and by Curtis et al. 2006 The Leading Edge 25 1082 1092 wherein passive seismic data are transformed into active source seismograms albeit with little or no control on the signatures of these effective sources.

While development of 4 D seismic technology and techniques has been ongoing for a couple of decades it is clearly desirable to devise a novel approach that i relaxes rather than tightens the field acquisition and data processing requirements of current 4 D methodologies and ii can be applied to passive seismic monitoring as well as time lapse active source seismic surveys.

To this end two concepts may be exploited. First the distribution of time lapse changes in and around a reservoir are spatially coherent i.e. changes in the strata have a real extent. As a consequence if there are one or more measures of the reservoir interval that are both sensitive to the contents of the reservoir and have a consistent calibration across multiple time lapse surveys then they can be a really mapped i.e. spatially interpolated to a uniform grid for each survey independently and the gridded measure s can then be compared. As computerized mapping is very quick and easy with present day commercial software packages the time and cost of generating such maps is far less than that of conventional high precision field acquisition and data processing of 4 D seismic surveys.

The second concept is that time lapse changes in a reservoir could be measured by comparing relative changes within each trace rather than absolute differences between each trace in the surveys. Conventional state of the art methodology strives to generate seismic traces that look exactly alike over regions without subsurface change so that trace by trace subtraction Trace T 2 right arrow over X Trace T 1 right arrow over X will produce nonzero differences in those zones that have changed. Even small variations in source signature receiver instrument response and shallow near surface effects between the traces being subtracted may render the result uninterpretable. One measure of relative change within a trace is described by M. E. Willis in Geophysics 71 5 O43 O51 hereinafter Willis which is incorporated herein by reference. In Willis traces recorded at different azimuths around a common location are analyzed by selecting a window of seismic samples above a suspected fracture zone and another window below that zone computing auto correlations of each window and then designing a transfer function to convert the upper auto correlation to the lower auto correlation. The transfer function essentially represents a spectral ratio between the window above the suspected fracture zone and the window below that zone. Thus wavelet effects common to the two windows specifically source signature receiver instrument response and shallow near surface effects are effectively cancelled out in the ratio. As wavelet repeatability is a central obstacle to time lapse seismic survey matching the transfer functions of Willis are especially suited to the challenges of time lapse seismic monitoring.

The present invention overcomes one or more deficiencies in the prior art by providing systems and methods for monitoring time dependent subsurface changes.

In one embodiment the present invention includes a method for monitoring time dependent subsurface changes between a data set and another data set which comprises i extracting a first window of data from each data set each first window corresponding to a region above a known or suspected area of change in the data set ii extracting a second window of data from each data set each second window corresponding to a region below the known or suspected area of change in the data set iii forming a first auto correlation of each first window and a second auto correlation of each second window iv computing a shaping filter for each data set which transforms the first auto correlation of each first window to the second auto correlation of each respective second window v computing a transfer function on a computer system that transforms the shaping filter of the data set to the shaping filter of the another data set and vi rendering an image of at least one of the shaping filters for each data set and the transfer function in spatially coincident alignment.

In another embodiment the present invention includes a program carrier device for carrying computer executable instructions for monitoring time dependent subsurface changes between a data set and another data set the instructions being executable to implement i extracting a first window of data from each data set each first window corresponding to a region above a known or suspected area of change in the data set ii extracting a second window of data from each data set each second window corresponding to a region below the known or suspected area of change in the data set iii forming a first auto correlation of each first window and a second auto correlation of each second window iv computing a shaping filter for each data set which transforms the first auto correlation of each first window to the second auto correlation of each respective second window v computing a transfer function that transforms the shaping filter of the data set to the shaping filter of the another data set and vi rendering an image of at least one of the shaping filters for each data set and the transfer function in spatially coincident alignment.

In yet another embodiment the present invention includes a program carrier device having a data structure stored thereon the data structure comprising i a first data field comprising a shaping filter for a data set the data set representing a subsurface location and time ii a second data field comprising another shaping filter for another data set the another data set representing the subsurface location and another time iii a third data field the third data field comprising a transfer function representing a transformation of the shaping filter of the data set to the shaping filter of the another data set wherein the first data field the second data field and the third data field are aligned so that the shaping filter the another shaping filter and the transfer function are spatially coincident.

Additional aspects advantages and embodiments of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following description of the various embodiments and related drawings.

The subject matter of the present invention is described with reference to certain preferred embodiments however is not intended to limit the scope of the invention. The claimed subject matter thus might also be embodied in other ways to include different steps or combinations of steps similar to the ones described herein and other technologies. Although the term step may be used herein to describe different elements of methods employed the term should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless otherwise expressly limited by the description to a particular order.

In one embodiment the present invention may be described in the general context of a computer executable program of instructions such as program modules generally referred to as software. The software may include for example routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The software forms an interface to allow a computer to react according to a source of input. The software may also cooperate with other code segments to initiate a variety of tasks in response to data received in conjunction with the source of the received data. The software may be stored and carried on any variety of memory media such as CD ROM magnetic disk bubble memory and semiconductor memory e.g. various types of RAM or ROM . Furthermore the software and its results may be transmitted over a variety of carrier media such as optical fiber metallic wire free space and or through any of a variety of networks such as the internet.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention may be implemented in a variety of computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Any number of computer systems and computer networks are therefore acceptable for use with the present invention. The present invention may be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment the software may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices. The computer useable instructions form an interface to allow a computer to react according to a source of input. The instructions cooperate with other code segments to initiate a variety of tasks in response to data received in conjunction with the source of the received data.

The present invention may therefore be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof in a computer system or other processing system.

Menu interface software overlays the operating system . The menu interface software are used to provide various menus and windows to facilitate interaction with the user and to obtain user input and instructions. As would be readily apparent to one of skill in the relevant art any number of menu interface software programs could be used in conjunction with the present invention.

A basic graphics library overlays menu interface software . Basic graphics library is an application programming interface API for three dimensional computer graphics. The functions performed by basic graphics library may include for example geometric and raster primitives RGBA or color index mode display list or immediate mode viewing and modeling transformations lighting and shading hidden surface removal alpha blending translucency anti aliasing texture mapping atmospheric effects fog smoke haze feedback and selection stencil planes and accumulation buffer.

A visual simulation graphics library overlays the basic graphics library . The visual simulation graphics library is an API for creating multi processed visual simulation graphics applications. As will be understood by those skilled in the art the visual simulation graphics library may include a suite of tools for processing two dimensional and or three dimensional seismic data. The visual simulation graphics library therefore provides functions that bundle together graphics library state control functions such as lighting materials texture and transparency. These functions track state and the creation of display lists that can be rendered later.

A time lapse survey monitoring module overlays the other elements of program which interfaces with and utilizes the functions carried out by the visual simulation graphics library the basic graphics library the menu interface software and the operating system . The monitoring module visual simulation graphics library basic graphics library menu interface software and operating system are executed on one or more general purpose CPU s such as for example processors marketed by Intel and AMD . The monitoring module may be written in an object oriented programming language such as for example C to allow the creation and use of objects and object functionality. SeisSpace and ProMax which are commercial software packages marketed by Landmark Graphics Corporation for use in the oil and gas industry are examples of appropriate applications for implementation and application of the monitoring module . Exemplary methods enabled by the monitoring module are further described in reference to .

The present invention is described with reference to processing traces which may represent a two dimensional or a three dimensional time lapse survey of a subsurface region. Although the display of such data according to the present invention is described with reference to a two dimensional image the display may also include a three dimensional image. Geoprobe which is another commercial software package marketed by Landmark Graphics Corporation for use in the oil and gas industry is an example of an appropriate interface application that may be used to render a three dimensional image of the traces in real time for interactive evaluation and interpretation. The requirements for GeoProbe are further described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 765 570 which is assigned to Landmark Graphics Corporation and incorporated herein by reference.

The program illustrated in may be executed or implemented through the use of a computer system incorporating the program and various hardware components. The system hardware components may include for example a processor memory e.g. random access memory and or non volatile memory devices one or more input devices one or more display devices and one or more interface devices. These hardware components may be interconnected according to a variety of configurations and may include one or more GPU s and CPU s configured in the manner described in the 570 Patent. Non volatile memory devices may include for example devices such as tape drives semiconductor ROM or EEPROM. Input devices may include for example devices such as a keyboard a mouse a digitizing pad a track ball a touch sensitive pad and or a light pen. Display devices may include for example devices such as monitors projectors and or head mounted displays. Interface devices may be configured to require digital image data from one or more acquisition devices and or from one or more remote computers or storage devices through a network. Any variety of acquisition devices may be used depending on the type of object being imaged. The acquisition device s may sense various forms of mechanical energy e.g. acoustic seismic energy displacement and or stress strain . Other well known computer system configurations and components that may be used to execute the program are described in the 570 Patent.

Each processor may be configured to reprogram instructions and or data from RAM and or non volatile memory devices and to store computational results into RAM and or non volatile memory devices. The program directs each processor to operate on a three dimensional volume of traces and other two dimensional or three dimensional seismic data sets based on the methods described herein.

Referring now to a flow diagram generally illustrates one embodiment of a method for implementing the present invention. The method begins at step with the input of time lapse data from a data source using input devices and the graphical user interface tools menu interface software described in reference to . The data may include for example processed or unprocessed seismic data but may also include other types of data such as for example data derived from electromagnetic aero magnetic and radar measurements of the earth or human body. The input data may be retrieved directly from the CPU or from some other memory or storage medium within the CPU. The input data may be provided to the computer system through a variety of mechanisms. For example the input data may be acquired into non volatile memory and or RAM using one or more interface devices. As another example the input data may be supplied to the computer system through a memory medium such as a disc or a tape which is loaded into or onto one of the non volatile memory devices. In this case the input data will have been previously recorded onto the memory medium. It is noted that the input data may not necessarily be raw sensor data obtained by an acquisition device. For example the input data may be the result of one or more processing operations using a set of raw sensor data. The processing operation s may be performed by the computer system and or one or more other computers. The input data may be stored in a format generally well known in the art and or described in 570 Patent.

If the input data at step is in the form of passive seismic recordings the source of the seismic energy being recorded may be unconstrained ambient noise. In this event well known methods using interferometry such as those described herein may be used to convert the passive seismic data into active source seismograms which may be processed by the method as input data.

Referring now to the remainder of the method will be illustrated using 4D active seismic data as the input data at step .

In step a data set is selected using input devices and the graphical user interface tools menu interface software described in reference to according to a subsurface location and time which is commonly referred to in the oil and gas industry as a time lapse seismic data survey. In step another data set is selected using input devices and the graphical user interface tools menu interface software described in reference to according to the same subsurface location and another time survey . As illustrated by the display in the data set and the another data set are plotted according to reflection arrival time milliseconds and a surface location halfway between the source and a receiver typically referred to as the common depth point CDP . The display illustrates that the data set is positioned above and is aligned with the another data set meaning they are spatially coincident. While the differences are subtle the two data sets surveys have wavelets that are about degrees out of phase. The second data set also includes a zone of attenuation which represents the accumulation of gaseous hydrocarbons from production operations between CDP locations and in the subsurface interval between 2400 and 2500 ms.

In step a first window of data is extracted from the data set using input devices and the graphical user interface tools menu interface software described in reference to . The first window of data corresponds to a region above a known or suspected area of change in the data set . In step a first window of data is extracted from the another data set using input devices and the graphical user interface tools menu interface software described in reference to . The first window of data also corresponds to the region above the known or suspected area of change in the data set .

In step a second window of data is extracted from the data set using input devices and the graphical user interface tools menu interface software described in reference to . The second window of data corresponds to a region below the know or suspected area of change in the data set . In step a second window of data is extracted from the another data set using input devices and the graphical user interface tools menu interface software described in reference to . The second window of data also corresponds to the region below the known or suspected area of change in the data set . Each first window corresponds with the same subsurface interval between 800 and 1800 ms. Each second window corresponds with the same subsurface interval between 3300 and 4300 ms. Thus the known or suspected area of change is found in the subsurface interval between 1800 and 3300 ms.

In step a first auto correlation of the first window of data and a second auto correlation of the second window of data are formed for the data set . In step a first auto correlation of the first window of data and a second auto correlation of the second window of data are formed for the another data set . Each auto correlation is formed by techniques well known in the art such as for example the techniques described by Willis.

In step a least squares transfer function shaping filter is computed that transforms the first auto correlation of the data set to the second auto correlation of the data set . In step a least squares transfer function shaping filter is computed that transforms the first auto correlation of the another data set to the second auto correlation of the another data set . Each shaping filter is computed by techniques well know in the art such as for example the techniques described by Willis. As illustrated by the display in each shaping filter is plotted according to time milliseconds and CDP. The display illustrates that the shaping filter for the data set is positioned above and is aligned with the shaping filter for the data set meaning they are spatially coincident.

In step a transfer function is computed that transforms the shaping filter of the data set to the shaping filter of the another data set . Again the transfer function may be computed by techniques well known in the art such as for example the techniques described by Willis. Upon completion of step and or the method may be repeated from step after selecting a third data set according to the same subsurface location and a third time or by selecting a third data set according to another subsurface location and the time or the another time. By selecting a third data set according to the same subsurface location and a third time and repeating the method from step more time lapse measurements may be analyzed for detecting incremental subsurface changes. By selecting a third data set according to another subsurface location and the time or the another time and repeating the method from step more measurements may be analyzed over different adjacent subsurface locations for displaying a three dimensional image.

In step an image of the shaping filters and the transfer function are displayed by techniques well known in the art. The display in is an exemplary two dimensional image resulting from step . As illustrated by the display in the transfer function may be positioned between and aligned with each shaping filter meaning it is spatially coincident with each shaping filter . Optionally the transfer function may be displayed in spatially coincident alignment with an attribute of the transfer function as illustrated by the display in . In the display illustrates an enlarged image of the transfer function in . The attribute represents the amplitude of the center sample of the shaping filters of each data set and is plotted with the transfer function according to time milliseconds and CDP.

In and or in the known or suspected area of change in the data set is confirmed by a visual comparison of the shaping filters between CDP locations and . A quick visual analysis of the transfer function in and in highlights this change between the same CDP locations and and represents a measure of apparent change in the known or suspected area of change between each data set . If there are no changes between each data set then after limiting the comparison to a common signal bandwidth the shaping filters for each respective data set will not change. Conversely if there have been significant changes between each data set then the shaping filter for the data set will change as compared to the shaping filter for the data set and that change will in turn be reflected in the transfer function .

The present invention therefore provides a quick look option that allows initial inspection and interpretation of the time lapse differences prior to or during more intensive processing efforts which is advantageous to match and analyze repeated surveys without having to match each trace between surveys. By measuring and displaying suitable attributes of the transfer functions in their proper spatial locations the present invention quickly provides 2D maps or 3D volumes highlighting areas of time lapse differences. An additional advantage of such displays is that they will generally reflect spatial consistency because the underlying geology has a significant statistical degree of spatial consistency which allows for useful analysis and interpretation without the need for highly precise repetition or reconstruction of the geographic placement of field instrumentation and the multiple recordings.

The transfer function being a ratio of above to below response cancels the wavelet on the trace at least within its effective bandwidth measuring instead a characteristic of the underlying reflectivity. Where there have been no changes in the subsurface seismic data the underlying reflectivity is unperturbed over the lapse of time and therefore the transfer function remains the same. Conversely where the transfer function has changed significantly between repeated surveys it is probably due to a true change in the subsurface seismic data and not an artifact of source wavelet differences. This makes the present invention well suited to early application in the 4D monitoring analysis providing useful information long before the full scale matching reprocessing is completed. In addition it can be used to feedback information to the reprocessing helping both the processor and the interpreter to make better decisions. The present invention may also be applied to 4D passive seismic data because the shaping filters are created by spectral division with the source wavelet appearing both in the numerator and denominator and thus cancelling out to leave an earth response of the reservoir zone. If the earth response changes over time it is indicative of changes in the reservoir itself rather than differences to random and or systematic variations in the uncontrolled source and overburden effects in passive seismic recordings.

The present invention therefore improves the ability to detect and monitor changes between time lapse measurements of data and other attribute anomalies which are indicative of subsurface changes. Because the systems and methods described herein may be used to selectively and interactively analyze various types of data they may be particularly useful for analyzing medical data or geophysical data however may also find utility for analyzing and interpreting any other type of waveform data. Applications in the oil and gas industry may include for example the detection and monitoring of subsurface fractures for improving production efficiency and or sequestration of carbon dioxide.

While the present invention has been described in connection with presently preferred embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that it is not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. It is therefore contemplated that various alternative embodiments and modifications may be made to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention defined by the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

