---

title: Neutron shielding panels for reactor pressure vessels
abstract: In a nuclear reactor neutron panels varying in thickness in the circumferential direction are disposed at spaced circumferential locations around the reactor core so that the greatest radial thickness is at the point of highest fluence with lesser thicknesses at adjacent locations where the fluence level is lower. The neutron panels are disposed between the core barrel and the interior of the reactor vessel to maintain radiation exposure to the vessel within acceptable limits.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08064564&OS=08064564&RS=08064564
owner: Westinghouse Electric Company LLC
number: 08064564
owner_city: Cranberry Township
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081121
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DE FC07 051D1436 awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates generally to nuclear reactor internals and more specifically to neutron shields for shielding nuclear reactor pressure vessels from overexposure to neutron flux.

The primary side of nuclear reactor power generating systems which are cooled with water under pressure comprises a closed circuit which is isolated from and in heat exchange relationship with a secondary side for the production of useful energy. The primary side comprises the reactor pressure vessel enclosing a core internals structure that supports a plurality of fuel assemblies containing fissile material the primary circuit within heat exchange steam generators the inner volume of a pressurizer pumps and pipes for circulating pressurized water the pipes connecting each of the steam generators and pumps to the reactor pressure vessel independently. Each of the parts of the primary side comprising the steam generator a pump and a system of pipes which are connected to the vessel form a loop of the primary side. The primary side is also connected to auxiliary circuits including a circuit for volumetric and chemical monitoring of the pressurized water. The auxiliary circuit which is arranged branching from the primary circuit makes it possible to maintain the quantity of water in the primary circuit by replenishing when required with measured quantities of water and to monitor the chemical properties of the coolant water particularly its content of boric acid which is important to the operation of the reactor.

The internal components of the reactor pressure vessel typically include upper and lower internals. The upper internals include control rod guide tube assemblies support columns conduits for instrumentation which enter the reactor vessel through the closure head and a fuel assembly alignment structure referred to as the upper core plate. The lower internals include a core support structure referred to as the core barrel a core shroud that sits inside the core barrel and converts the circular interior of the core barrel to a stepped pattern that substantially corresponds to the perimeter profile of the fuel assemblies that constitute the core supported between a lower core support plate and the upper core plate. The stepped pattern of fuel assemblies places the fuel assemblies closest to the core barrel at the four cardinal coordinates. As an alternate to the shroud a bolted baffle former structure consisting of machined horizontal former and vertical baffle plates has been employed. Whether a shroud or a bolted baffle former structure is employed the core pattern is still generally the same with the fuel assemblies being positioned closest to the core barrel at the cardinal coordinates.

In pressured water moderated and boiling water nuclear reactors both of which are used for producing steam to drive a steam turbine fission takes place within the reactor core whereby the energy of the fission products is transmitted to the water. In a pressurized water moderated reactor the heated water is pumped from the reactor vessel through a heat exchanger in which heat energy is transferred to another circuit of water to form steam to drive a turbine. In a boiling water reactor the energy of the fission products is transmitted to the water in the reactor vessel to form steam to drive the turbine. In both types of reactor it has been found that neutron flux imposed on the vessel from the reactor core results in the material of the vessel becoming embrittled. That is with prolonged exposure to high energy neutrons the fracture toughness of the vessel is reduced and could ultimately result in fracturing of the vessel should the condition be allowed to continue.

Several design techniques have been utilized in the past to reduce the radiation exposure of the vessel. For example in pressured water reactors manufacturers have employed a steel thermal shield to reduce the radiation exposure of the vessel. In one such design illustrated in the core barrel which surrounds and supports the reactor core within the vessel is itself surrounded by a cylindrical steel wall which is two to three inches 5.08 to 7.62 centimeters thick and is situated approximately an equal distance from the inner surface of the pressure vessel and the outer surface of the core barrel . In an alternative design disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 3 868 302 recognizing that the neutron flux level impinging on the inner surface of the reactor vessel varies marketably in the circumferential direction because some of the fuel assemblies within the core are closer to the core barrel than other fuel assemblies the thickness of the core barrel is selectively increased in those regions where a high flux exists. If the thickness of the core barrel is increased in the high flux regions by an amount corresponding to the thickness of the cylindrical thermal shield the maximum radiation exposure of the reactor vessel is essentially the same as the level that would result with a separate cylindrical thermal shield .

Another alternative that has been employed is to affix steel plates to the outside of the core barrel in the regions of the cardinal coordinates to essentially achieve the same affect that would be achieved by increasing the thickness of the core barrel in those areas but at a lower expense. As the size of the reactors increase requiring larger thermal shields the steel plates forming the shields can experience large temperature excursions as they heat up and differences in thermal expansion between the shields and the core barrel can strain the means employed to attach the neutron shields to the core barrel. In addition as the neutron shields become larger they can affect the pressure drop within the downcomer region between the core barrel and the reactor vessel which in turn increases the pressure drop across the reactor vessel and the amount of flow turbulence that is generated in the downcomer annulus.

Accordingly an improved neutron shield design is desired that will reduce any adverse affect on pressure drop within the downcomer region between the pressure vessel and the core barrel.

Furthermore such an improved neutron shield design is desired that will minimize temperature differences between the thermal shield and the core barrel and reduce the strain on the means employed to attach the neutron shields to the core barrel.

The foregoing objectives are achieved in accordance with this invention by placing a plurality of circumferentially spaced apart neutron shield panels in the downcomer region of the reactor pressure vessel with each panel having a generally concave surface facing the core barrel and a generally convex surface facing the pressure vessel inside wall. Each panel has a variable thickness between the concave face and the convex surface. Preferably the thickness of the panel varies in the circumferential direction with the greatest thickness in the center and tapers to the sides. Desirably the thickness is approximately three inches 7.62 centimeters in the center and tapers approximately to one inch 2.54 centimeters on the side. Preferably the neutron shield panels are constructed of stainless steel and are tapered at the top to provide a gradual transition to the direction of flow of coolant down the downcomer.

In one embodiment the neutron shield panels are constructed from a plurality of separate segments that are stacked vertically. Desirably each of the segments are rectangular having two longer sides the longer sides extending in the vertical direction. In the one preferred embodiment the number of segments is three with each segment approximately the same size. The segments are preferably bolted to the core barrel and at least a portion of the concave surface of the neutron panel is spaced from an outside diameter of the core barrel by a stand off such as the washer. In another preferred embodiment the neutron panel segments have sloped opposing edges with each edge inversely matching the slope on the opposing edge of the adjacent segment wherein the opposing adjacent edges are spaced from each other. The space between the opposing edges permits reactor coolant to pass therebetween to assist in cooling the segments while reducing the passage of neutron fluence to the reactor vessel.

Referring now to the drawings shows a simplified nuclear reactor primary system including a generally cylindrical reactor pressure vessel having a closure head enclosing a nuclear core . A liquid reactor coolant such as water is pumped into the vessel by pump through the core where heat energy is absorbed and is discharged to a heat exchanger typically referred to as a steam generator in which heat is transferred to a utilization circuit not shown such as a steam driven turbine generator. The reactor coolant is then returned to the pump completing the primary loop. Typically a plurality of the above described loops are connected to a single reactor vessel by reactor coolant piping .

An exemplary reactor design is shown in more detail in . In addition to the core comprised of a plurality of parallel vertically co extending fuel assemblies for purposes of this description the other vessel internal structures can be divided into the lower internals and the upper internals . In conventional designs the lower internal s function is to support align and guide core components and instrumentation as well as direct flow within the vessel. The upper internals restrain or provide a secondary restraint for the fuel assemblies only two of which are shown for simplicity and support and guide instrumentation and components such as control rods .

In the exemplary reactor shown in coolant enters the vessel through one or more inlet nozzles flows downward through an annulus or downcomer between the vessel and the core barrel is turned 180 degrees in a lower plenum passes upwardly through a lower support plate and a lower core plate upon which the fuel assemblies are seated and through and about the fuel assemblies. In some designs the lower support plate and the lower core plate are replaced by a single structure the lower core support plate at the same location as . The coolant flow through the core and surrounding area is typically large on the order of 400 000 gallons per minute at a velocity of approximately 20 feet per second. The resulting pressure drop and frictional forces tend to cause the fuel assemblies to rise which movement is restrained by the upper internals including a circular upper core plate . Coolant exiting the core flows along the underside of the upper core plate and upwardly through a plurality of perforations . The coolant then flows upwardly and radially to one or more outward nozzles .

The upper internals can be supported from the vessel or the vessel head and include an upper support assembly . Loads are transmitted between the upper support assembly and the upper core plate primarily by a plurality of support columns . A support column is aligned above a selected fuel assembly and perforations in the upper core plate .

Rectilinearly moveable control rods typically include a drive shaft and spider assembly of neutron poison rods that are guided through the upper internals and into aligned fuel assemblies by control rod guide tubes . The guide tubes are fixedly joined to the upper support assembly and connected by a split pin force fit into the top of the upper core plate . The pin configuration provides for ease of guide tube assembly and replacement if ever necessary and assures that core loads particularly under seismic or other high loading accident conditions are taken primarily by the support columns and not the guide tubes . This assists in retarding guide tube deformation under accident conditions which could detrimentally affect control rod insertion capability.

As previously mentioned it has been found that neutron flux imposed on the vessel from the reactor core results in the material of the reactor vessel becoming embrittled. For that reason the maximum fluence that impinges on a reactor vessel is limited by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in Regulatory Guide 1.99. To avoid exceeding these limitations in some reactor designs neutron shields shown in are placed around the core barrel at circumferentially spaced locations about the cardinal axis where the fluence is the greatest due to the proximity of the fuel assemblies. The neutron shields essentially extend along a height substantially equal to that of the fuel elements within the core. The thickness of the neutron shields are gauged to reduce the neutron fluence on the reactor vessel below the limits set by Regulatory Guide 1.99. As can be seen in the neutron shields restrict the downcomer area between the walls of the vessel and the core barrel through which the incoming coolant is directed to reach the core and thus create a restriction on coolant flow. This invention minimizes that restriction by designing each neutron shield panel with a generally concave surface facing the core barrel and a generally convex surface facing the pressure vessel inside wall with each panel having a variable thickness between the concave surface and the convex surface.

A cross section of the core barrel showing the neutron shield panels of this invention is illustrated in . The neutron shield panels are shown at the periphery of each of the cardinal axis of the core barrel and are secured at the center and each circumferential end by the bolts . As can be seen in the neutron shield panel is thickest at its center and tapers to the sides. Preferably the center is three inches 7.62 centimeters thick and the panels tapers in the circumferential direction to proximately one inch 2.54 centimeters . The bolts extend through holes in the neutron shield panel and are screwed into corresponding openings in the core barrel . The baskets spaced around the core barrel support specimens of reactor vessel material that are periodically removed from the reactor for testing to determine the condition of the vessel metal.

As can be seen from the neutron shield panel on the right side of the interface between panel segment has a sloped opposing edge that inversely matches the slope on the opposing edge of the adjacent segment and the opposing adjacent edges are spaced from each other to permit reactor coolant to pass therebetween to cool the segments. Preferably each of the segments are constructed from stainless steel.

Desirably as mentioned above three such panels are stacked in tandom at each of the four cardinal coordinates around the core on the outside of the core barrel and are affixed to the core barrel by the bolts . Though it should be appreciated that as an alternative a single panel extending the height of the fuel rods can also be employed provided the means for affixing the extended panel to the outside of the core barrel is designed to accommodate any differences in thermal expansion between the material of the neutron shields and the core barrel .

One of the key aspects of this invention is to have the panels vary in thickness in the circumferential direction such that the greatest radial thickness is at the point of highest fluence with lesser thicknesses at adjacent locations where the fluence level is lower. This arrangement permits a relatively smaller reactor vessel diameter which reduces the impact on other parts of the plant design. In addition with a variable thickness in the circumferential direction the downcomer flow blockage is reduced so that the reactor pressure vessel pressure drop and internals vibration levels are lower than with the uniform panel thickness as is used in more conventional reactor designs. Because the thickness of the panels is greatest at the location of highest fluence the benefit of the thickness is obtained where it is needed and is less where the fluence is lower.

While specific embodiments of the invention have been described in detail it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications and alternatives to those details could be developed in light of the overall teachings of the disclosure. Accordingly the particular embodiments disclosed are meant to be illustrative only and not limiting as to the scope of the invention which is to be given the full breadth of the appended claims and any and all equivalents thereof.

