---

title: Method and apparatus for group calling in an IP-based communication system
abstract: Method and system for group calling in an IP-based communication system includes receiving an administrator identifier, receiving one or more invitee identifiers, initiating a first connection from a central location and initiating at least one or more second connections from the central location to join an administrator and at least one invitee. The administrator identifier and one or more invitee identifiers can be a telephone number or other identifiers associated with the communication system. To establish the group call, the administrator identifier and one or more invitee identifiers are received from the administrator. The first connection initiation is to the administrator and the second or more connection initiations are to the at least one invitee. System for making a group call includes a user interface adapted for use by the administrator, a database manager, a database, a load balancer and a group calling pool adapted for SIP-based group call setup.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08374106&OS=08374106&RS=08374106
owner: Vonage Network LLC
number: 08374106
owner_city: Holmdel
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081216
---
The invention is related to the field of telecommunication devices and services and more specifically the invention is directed to an apparatus system and method that provides customers of a telecommunication system based on Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP with the ability to perform a group calling function.

VoIP is a technological development in the field of telecommunications that is utilized to transmit voice conversations over a data network using Internet Protocol IP rather than the existing and traditional telecommunications system more commonly referred to as the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or Plain Old Telephone Service POTS . Entities e.g. businesses or individuals implement VoIP by purchasing and installing the necessary equipment e.g. one or more Customer Premise Equipment CPE devices to access a VoIP service provider and activating this telecommunication service via a broadband connection.

Since VoIP is a relatively new technology in terms of its commercial penetration there are many PSTN originated telecommunication features that new VoIP subscribers may desire or expect so as to mimic the existing technology. One such feature is group or conference calling where it is possible to connect multiple parties calling from multiple phone lines into a single communication session. It is possible for VoIP to duplicate the feel of a conference call where callers each dial in to a conference bridge in the form of a server or similar type of computer processing device and are subsequently connected to each other to form the communication session . However this places a burden on each caller to obtain a communication session or main access number to the conference bridge device and perform dial in and login security actions to become part of the desired communication session. There is also a further burden on the conference call administrator the individual who is planning or otherwise hosting the conference call to initially purchase install or otherwise provide for the necessary infrastructure to carry our the conference call and subsequently disseminate the above identified dial in and login information prior to the scheduled time of the conference call. These administrative hurdles detract from the overall experience of group communications. With the advent of web based applications it has become easier for data to be shared among an increasing number of users. However there is a lack of integration of PSTN style conference or group calling and web based applications to facilitate this type of communication via the Internet.

Accordingly there is a need in the art for an apparatus and method for providing VoIP subscribers with the ability to perform conference calling via a web based interface to improve the overall experience.

The disadvantages associated with the prior art are overcome by a method and system for group calling in an IP based communication system. The method includes the steps of receiving a group call administrator identifier receiving one or more group call invitee identifiers initiating a first group call connection from a central location and initiating at least one or more second group call connections from the central location to join a group call administrator and at the least one group call invitee. The group call administrator identifier and one or more group call invitee identifiers can be a telephone number or other identifiers associated with users of the communication system. To establish the group call the group call administrator identifier and one or more group call invitee identifiers are received from the group call administrator. The first group call connection initiation is to the group administrator and the second or more group call connection initiations are to the at least one group call invitee. The central location for the first group call connection initiation and the second or more group call connection initiations is the VoIP service provider equipment. The step of receiving a group call administrator identifier occurs via a first internet connection between a group call administrator and a VoIP service provider. The step of receiving one or more group call invitee identifiers also occurs via a first internet connection between a group call administrator and a VoIP service provider. In one embodiment of the invention the method is practiced by a computer readable medium storing a software program that when executed by a computer and being initiated in response to a communication request placed via an interface of a VoIP service subscriber causes the computer to perform an operation of VoIP based group calling as described above.

A system for making a VoIP based group call includes a user interface adapted for use by a group call administrator via the Internet a database manager connected to the user interface a database connected to the database manager a group call load balancer connected to the user interface and a group calling pool adapted for SIP based group call setup. The user interface further comprises a first field for receiving a group call administrator identifier and at least one second field for receiving one or more group call invitee identifiers. In one embodiment of the invention the group call administrator identifier and one or more group call invitee identifiers is a telephone number. The group calling pool includes a plurality of servers wherein each server responds to one group call request made by the group call administrator. Each server responds to a group call request by initiating a first group call connection and initiating at least one or more second group call connections to join a group call administrator and at least one group call invitee.

To facilitate understanding identical reference numerals have been used where possible to designate identical elements that are common to the figures.

To achieve the desired objectives the subject invention provides IP based telecommunication services i.e. VoIP subscribers with the ability to initiate advanced call features associated with the service such as but not limited to group or conference calling. Real time management and control of the features are executed by a system in an IP based environment i.e. the Internet via one or more interfaces. Since both the telecommunication service and the management system operate over IP the limitations associated with a PSTN telecommunication service are overcome and full exploitation of broadband capabilities are enjoyed to improve the overall experience.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the management functions operate as part of a larger VoIP telecommunication service. Such telecommunication service is by way of example part of any public or private data network or combination thereof constructed for in part and adapted to convert analog voice signals e.g. generated by a human utterance to a digitized and packetized format according to known and understood protocols such as but not limited to Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP for transmission from an originating point Party A to one or more terminating points Party B and or C D and the like . In a preferred embodiment of the invention the data network is an IP based network such as but not limited to the Internet having VoIP specific and related components connected thereto.

Various customer premises equipment CPE are coupled to the IP network via links . Various communication devices can be coupled to the CPE . The CPE may include modems terminal adapters routers and the like configured to provide an interface between the communication devices and the IP network . The communication devices can comprise telephones video phones computers mobile devices and the like. The CPE and the communication devices can be distributed among a plurality of subscribers to VOIP services provided by the VOIP network . The links can include cable fiber optic digital subscriber line DSL or like type communication links known in the art.

In general operation subscribers use the communication devices and the CPE to covert content e.g. voice video data some or all of which may be analog and signaling into VOIP based content and signaling a VOIP call . VOIP calls can be transmitted to the IP network via the CPE over the links . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the VOIP calls may pass through other IP networks before reaching the IP network of the VOIP network . For example the VOIP calls may pass through various IP networks of the Internet before being routed to the IP network e.g. internet service provider ISP networks backbone networks etc. . VOIP calls may be processed by the servers . VOIP calls in general and those of a conference call or group call nature as described in further detail below can be directed to other subscribers of the VOIP network to subscribers of other VOIP networks not shown or to subscribers of traditional telephone services e.g. the PSTN .

Generally when a subscriber activates their service i.e. a VoIP service they have access to a number of features such as but not limited to call features like call waiting call forwarding do not disturb caller ID and the like. Additionally the subscriber can have access to other IP based services such as instant messaging email and the like. Tying services and features together adds to the flexibility and pervasiveness of the services in general so that their adoption becomes increasingly widespread. In some embodiments the VoIP network provides a method and apparatus for managing and establishing group calls so that subscribers can create and schedule such calls with a minimum of interaction and preparation by all involved parties of the group as well as minimizing the cost associated with the required infrastructure to perform such group calls. The group calling feature can be facilitated by the VoIP Service Provider Network . For clarity only a single element is shown for the VoIP Service Provider Network . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the VoIP Service Provider Network can include more than one element interconnected to various other elements components to achieve the desired result.

A first server of the plurality of servers functions as a user interface UI . That is the first server UI provides the graphical audio video and other related capabilities to create an interface between VoIP subscriber equipment and the GCS . The VoIP subscriber equipment includes but is not limited to the CPE Communication Devices and computers described above with respect to . In one embodiment of the invention the UI has the look and feel of a directory of names that are part of the VoIP subscriber s list of contacts. The directory may show all or part of the total number of contacts depending on a display screen size also part of VoIP subscriber equipment and configuration that is driven by the UI number of total contacts or user organizational preferences i.e. alphabetical groups sub groups and the like . Interaction between the first server UI and the VoIP subscriber is enabled via a first connection of the first server UI to a packet based network such as the Internet . In one embodiment of the invention the first connection is a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP as is commonly known in the art of packet based network communications. In a preferred embodiment of the invention the UI is created and executed using a Ruby on Rails based application using RESTful communication on a Red Hat LINUX platform running on IBM hardware although the UI is operable on other combinations of software and hardware including MICROSOFT WINDOWS running on compatible devices.

The first server UI is further connected to a second server via a second connection and a third server via a third connection . In one embodiment of the invention the second and third connections and are via HTTP using the Representational state transfer REST style of software architecture. REST is more fully disclosed in Architectural Styles and the Design of Network based Software Architectures by Roy Thomas Fielding 2000 herein incorporated by reference.

The second server functions as a Load Balancer for the GCP as described in greater detail below. Generally the second server Load Balancer assigns group calling tasks to specific pool members of the GCP and maintains the state of calls and requests. In one embodiment of the invention the second server Load Balancer is created on a Red Hat LINUX platform running on IBM hardware although same is operable on other combinations of software and hardware including MICROSOFT WINDOWS running on compatible devices.

The third server functions as a Manager for the database . That is information is maintained in the database in order to execute group calling functions based on VoIP subscriber requests. The third server Manager acts as an abstraction layer for the database in order to relay the requested information from the database to the second server Load Balancer and GCP . In a preferred embodiment of the invention the third server Manager is created and its tasks executed by using a Ruby on Rails based application using RESTful communication on a on a Red Hat LINUX platform running on IBM hardware although the UI is operable on other combinations of software and hardware including MICROSOFT WINDOWS running on compatible devices.

The GCP further comprises a plurality of group call servers pool members for responding to group call setup requests by the VoIP subscriber as identified above. Each group call server processes one group call request. As a group call request is processed the appropriate group call session set up process is executed via a fourth connection between the GCP and a packet based network such as the Internet . In one embodiment of the invention Session Initiation Protocol SIP is used as the connection protocol to execute the group call session set up and subsequent tear down steps. SIP is a signaling protocol for initiating managing and terminating media e.g. voice data and video sessions across packet based networks that typically use the Internet Protocol IP of which VoIP is an example. The details and functionality of SIP can be found in the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF Request for Comments RFC Paper No. 3261 entitled SIP Session Initiation Protocol herein incorporated in its entirety by reference. As the number of group call requests fluctuates based on the rate of new group call requests session set ups and conclusion of group calls session tear downs the second server Load Balancer manages the GCP to optimize call flow. In one embodiment of the invention this management process is performed via open source software and preferably using ASTERISK v1.2.14. ASTERISK is an open source product created by Digium Inc. of Huntsville Ala. and released under the GNU General Public License GPL . In a preferred embodiment of the invention each of the plurality of group call servers is created on a Red Hat LINUX platform running on IBM hardware although same is operable on other combinations of software and hardware including MICROSOFT WINDOWS running on compatible devices.

At step one or more group calling invitee identifiers is received. For example a VoIP subscriber after having identified himself as the group calling administrator as described above desires to establish a group calling session between himself and at least one other party. As such he continues to access the GCS via first server UI and selects one or more group calling invitees available therethrough. As a result information identifying the one or more selected group calling invitees will be sent to and subsequently received by the GCS . The group call invitee identifier is selected from the group of possible identifiers consisting of contact name of invitee given by VoIP subscriber group call invitee telephone number VoIP subscriber instant messaging identifier VoIP subscriber telephone number and other authorized subscriber telephone number i.e. a telephone number that is not necessarily provided or assigned by the VoIP provider . Other identifiers are possible and are known to those skilled in the art. Note that there can be up to n invitees where n is limited by the number of group call participants that can be supported by the system architecture and hardware.

At step a first group call connection is initiated from a central location. More particularly and in one embodiment of the invention once the GCS has all of the necessary information to initiate a group call namely an administrator identifier and two or more invitee identifiers the GCS attempts to make the group call in accordance with the VoIP subscriber s request. The group call starts with the GCS placing a call to the administrator who has identified himself as such earlier. For example one of the servers from the group calling server pool begins executing a group calling session set up by calling the administrator. If the administrator answers the call i.e. picks up his phone to place it in an off hook condition the GCS receives acknowledgement that the group call administrator has accepted the group call session request. If the administrator does not answer the call the GCS tears down the group call session to free up the group call server and allow it to service another group call request.

At step at least one additional group call connection is initiated from a central location. More particularly and in one embodiment of the invention once the group call administrator has accepted the group call session request from the GCS the GCS attempts to finalize the group call session set up in accordance with the VoIP subscriber s request. The GCS places a call to the at least one group call invitee that the administrator had identified earlier. For example the server from the group calling server pool that initiated the first group call connection continues the group calling session set up by calling the at least one group call invitee. If at least one of the group call invitee s answers the call i.e. picks up his phone to place it in an off hook condition the GCS receives acknowledgement that the group call invitee has accepted the group call session request and connects such invitee s to the administrator and other accepted invitees. That is even if only two parties comprise the group call appearing to be a regular phone call between two parties the GCS maintains the call with all attendant features and functionality of a group call as discussed above.

At step one or more group calling secondary functions are optionally executed. Specifically once the group call is initiated there may be circumstances where call control features have to be invoked by the group call administrator during the group call in order to achieve the desired results. Such call control features are executable in real time i.e. during the group call via the first server UI for real time modification of the user experience. In one embodiment of the invention the group call administrator accesses the first server UI and requests modification initiation or termination of a group call feature therethrough while maintaining basic group call dynamics. The request can be made via manipulation of a graphical icon performing a drag and drop operation of old new group call attendees from to the group call or other operations known to those skilled in the art. Non limiting examples of group calling features that can be managed in real time are selected from the group consisting of mute unmute call participants invoking re invite requests to one or more parties and removing one or more parties from an existing group call although other features are additionally contemplated. The benefits of such capabilities include being able to view the status of these optional features and the group call in general in real time via the UI . The method ends at step .

The memory is coupled to the CPU . The memory or computer readable medium may be one or more of readily available memory such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM floppy disk hard disk flash memory or any other form of digital storage local or remote. The support circuits are coupled to the CPU for supporting the processor in a conventional manner. These circuits include cache power supplies clock circuits input output circuitry and subsystems and the like. A software routine when executed by the CPU causes the controller to perform processes of the present invention and is generally stored in the memory . The software routine may also be stored and or executed by a second CPU not shown that is remotely located from the hardware being controlled by the CPU .

The software routine is executed when the disclosed method of processing group call requests is desired. The software routine when executed by the CPU transforms the general purpose computer into a specific purpose computer controller that controls the various servers and GCS in general or other similar actions. Although the process of the present invention is discussed as being implemented as a software routine some of the method steps that are disclosed therein may be performed in hardware as well as by the software controller. As such the invention may be implemented in software as executed upon a computer system in hardware as an application specific integrated circuit or other type of hardware implementation or a combination of software and hardware. The software routine of the present invention is capable of being executed on computer operating systems including but not limited to Microsoft Windows 98 Microsoft Windows XP Apple OS X and LINUX. Similarly the software routine of the present invention is capable of being performed using CPU architectures including but not limited to Apple Power PC Intel x86 Sun service provider agentRC and Intel ARM.

While foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof.

