---

title: Methods for correcting twist angle in a gas turbine engine blade
abstract: A method of correcting a twist angle of a gas turbine engine blade includes measuring an existing twist angle of the blade, applying a first angular load to a first end of the blade; and measuring a repaired twist angle of the blade. The first angular load applied to the first end of the blade is based on an empirical correlation between a plurality of angular loads necessary to produce a plurality of twist angle correction values.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08122601&OS=08122601&RS=08122601
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08122601
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080415
---
The Government may have certain rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. F33657 99 D 2051 awarded by the United States Air Force.

The present application is related to the following copending applications filed on the same day as this application TURBINE BLADE TWIST ANGLE CORRECTION TOOLING by inventors Ephraim C. Davis Bryan G. and Parrette Larry D. Cronin U.S. application Ser. No. 12 082 896 and METHOD FOR DEVELOPING A REPAIR PROCESS TO CORRECT A DEFORMED GAS TURBINE ENGINE COMPONENT by inventors Garrett Kernozicky Ephraim C. Davis and Thomas P. Cap U.S. application Ser. No. 12 082 865 . All of these applications are incorporated herein by this reference.

The present invention relates to turbine blade repair procedures and tooling. In particular the present invention relates to a method for correcting the twist angle of a gas turbine engine blade.

A gas turbine engine commonly includes a fan a compressor a combustor and a turbine. During engine operation working medium gases for example air are drawn into the engine by the fan and directed into and compressed in the compressor. The compressed air is channeled to the combustor where fuel is added to the air and the air fuel mixture is ignited. The products of combustion are discharged to the turbine section which extracts work from these products to produce useful thrust to power for example an aircraft in flight.

The compressor and turbine commonly include alternating stages of rotor blades and stator vanes. Compressor and turbine blades and vanes often include complex contoured airfoil geometries designed to optimally interact with the working medium gas passing through the engine. One common feature of airfoil geometries is the blade twist angle. The twist angle is the angular displacement of the airfoil about a spanwise axis such as the stacking line from the root to the tip of the airfoil. During normal engine operation the blade twist angle feature which is a critical characteristic of gas turbine engine blades decreases due to thermo mechanical cycling and aerodynamic loading of the blades. The twist angle must be restored to the original manufactured condition during engine overhaul prior to returning the blade to service.

Turbine blade twist correction is commonly accomplished by clamping the blade root in a fixture and manually applying a load to the tip of the blade using for example a two handed wrench configured to clamp the blade tip. An operator twists the blade using the wrench measures the blade twist angle and repeats the twisting procedure until the correct twist angle is reached. Because the operator can only estimate how much force to apply each time this approach often requires many iterations to achieve the desired twist angle. This results in a time consuming labor intensive and costly process. This approach can also result in over twist due to applying excessive force. Over twisting is particularly problematic in blades prone to micro cracking such as blades made from a directionally solidified nickel alloy.

A method of correcting a twist angle of a gas turbine engine blade includes measuring an existing twist angle of the blade applying a first angular load to a first end of the blade and measuring a repaired twist angle of the blade. The first angular load applied to the first end of the blade is based on an empirical correlation between a plurality of angular loads necessary to produce a plurality of twist angle correction values.

Method includes restraining the root of the blade step . For example the blade such as blade shown in may be restrained in a fixture configured to clamp the root of the blade. The fixture used to restrain the root of the blade step may be configured to receive different root geometries such as dovetail and fir tree geometries commonly found in gas turbine engine blades. Method also includes measuring an existing twist angle of the blade step which may be accomplished by for example using a twist angle gauge configured to engage one or more portions of the blade.

In addition to restraining the root of the blade step and measuring an existing twist angle of the blade step method includes applying a first angular load to the tip of the blade to produce an overcorrected twist angle in the blade step . Although method has been described with reference to restraining the root and applying a load to the tip of the blade embodiments of the present invention also include methods including the steps of restraining the tip and applying a load to the root of the blade. In the first angular load applied to the tip of the blade step is based on an empirical correlation between a plurality of angular loads necessary to produce a plurality of twist angle correction values. The load applied to the blade represents the primary input of method to repair the twist angle of the blade subjected to method . In order to achieve a repaired twist angle without necessitating arbitrary application of varying loads to iteratively twist the blade method includes applying a specific i.e. the first load to achieve a specific twist angle correction. The first load necessary to produce the overcorrected twist angle is determined based on an empirical correlation between a range of angular loads applied to produce a range of twist angle correction values.

The empirical correlation may be generated for example using the method described in the copending application entitled METHOD FOR DEVELOPING A REPAIR PROCESS TO CORRECT A DEFORMED GAS TURBINE ENGINE COMPONENT U.S. application Ser. No. 12 082 865 . For example the empirical correlation on which the first angular load applied to the blade step is based may be generated by determining analytically peak stress locations in a model of the turbine blade applying a range of loads to sample blades based on the model to produce a range of twist angle correction values in the samples generating data from the samples including the loads applied and the twist angle correction values produced destructively analyzing the samples at the peak stress locations for structural imperfections and correlating the loads applied to the twist angle correction values produced to determine a range of allowable loads necessary to produce a range of target geometrical correction values in a used blade substantially free of structural imperfections. The first angular load may be applied to the blade step by for example clamping and twisting the tip of the blade using a twist correction tool such as a tool configured to clamp the blade tip geometry and to apply a measured angular load to twist the blade. The first angular load applied to the blade produces an overcorrected twist angle in the blade to for example account for repair process steps that may act to change for example reduce the twist angle correction after the first load has been applied.

In addition to applying a first angular load to the tip of the blade to produce an overcorrected twist angle step method includes measuring an overcorrected twist angle of the blade step which measurement may be made as with the existing twist angle measurement using a twist angle gauge configured to engage one or more portions of the blade.

Method also includes heat treating the blade to reduce residual stresses in the blade step . Heat treating the blade to reduce residual stresses may include subjecting the blade to a range of temperatures for a period of time. Applying the first angular load to the blade step to change the twist angle plastically deforms one or more portions of the blade. Plastically deforming the blade may act to create residual stresses in the blade which residual stresses may reduce the effectiveness of the blade after being returned to service. For example residual stresses produced by plastically deforming the blade during repair may structurally compromise portions of the blade such that the compromised blade may not be able to withstand the forces encountered during engine operation. In order to reduce the residual stresses and thereby the associated deleterious effects of such stresses on the blade the blade may be heat treated by for example heating the blade in a furnace at a range of temperatures for a period of time. is a graph showing a representative temperature versus time curve for heat treating the turbine blade step . In the temperature the blade is subjected to increases for a first period of time remains substantially constant for a second period of time and decreases for a third and final period of time . The specific range of temperatures the blade is subjected to during heat treatment and the time period over which the blade is subjected to such temperatures will vary depending on factors such as the amount of plastic deformation i.e. twist angle correction produced in the blade and the materials such as a directionally solidified nickel alloy from which the blade is constructed.

In addition to reducing residual stresses in the blade heat treating the blade step may act to for example reduce the amount of twist angle correction produced by applying the first angular load to the blade step . Therefore and as mentioned briefly above the empirical correlation between a range of angular loads necessary to produce a range of twist angle correction values on which the first angular load is based may account for the reduction in the overcorrected twist angle caused by heat treating the blade step . As described in the copending application entitled METHOD FOR DEVELOPING A REPAIR PROCESS TO CORRECT A DEFORMED GAS TURBINE ENGINE COMPONENT U.S. application Ser. No. 12 082 865 repairing the turbine blade may necessitate post twist angle correction processing that tends to change the amount of correction produced by the applied load such as heat treating the blade to reduce residual stresses step created during the twisting step. Heat treating the blade step may have the secondary effect of causing the blade to un twist slightly thereby partially undoing the twist correction. In such cases the correlation between applied load and twist angle correction on which the first angular load applied to the blade step is based may be adjusted to over twist the blade enough to account for the un twisting caused by heat treatment.

Method also includes measuring a repaired twist angle of the blade step which measurement may be made as with the existing and overcorrected twist angle measurements using a twist angle gauge configured to engage one or more portions of the blade. The repaired twist angle of the blade measured step is equal to the overcorrected twist angle produced by applying the first angular load to the blade step reduced by heat treating the blade step .

Methods according to the present invention such as method of may be carried out using a variety of repair apparatuses such as the repair apparatuses disclosed in the copending application entitled TURBINE BLADE TWIST ANGLE CORRECTION TOOLING U.S. application Ser. No. 12 082 896.

Methods of correcting blade twist angle according to the present invention have several advantages over known repairs. Embodiments of the present invention include critical repair process inputs e.g. the magnitude of angular load applied to an untwisted gas turbine blade necessary to produce target repair process outputs e.g. the twist angle correction produced in the blade from the applied load while simultaneously substantially reducing the risk of deleterious effects of the repair such as initiating micro cracking in the blade. Methods according to the present invention also account for repair process steps that affect the twist angle corrections produced by the applied loads such as the un twisting effect of post twist correction heat treatment. Embodiments of the present invention therefore include repair processes which are less subject to for example ad hoc operator application production of unacceptable structural imperfections and over twisting the turbine blade under repair.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

