---

title: System and method for propagating personal identification information to communication devices
abstract: A system and method for propagating identification information among a communication device and a server, through an agent installed on the device. Such process optionally and preferably comprises synchronization between the server and the device, through the agent, such that one or both of the agent and the server may optionally “push” or “pull” information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08966032&OS=08966032&RS=08966032
owner: Amdocs Software Systems Limited
number: 08966032
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20080313
---
This Application is a national phase of and claims priority from PCT Application No. PCT IL2008 000359 having International filing date of Mar. 13 2008 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 906 805 filed on Mar. 14 2007 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

The present invention relates to personal identification information saved in communication devices and particularly for propagating such information among other users.

Digitally enabled telephones including cellular telephones so called smart phones Java enabled phones and VoIP telephones telephones which communicate through the Voice over IP protocol also known as Internet telephones are all able to communicate with a server. Unlike simple analog telephones this ability to communicate with a server increases the variety and type of services which may be offered through such communication devices.

One type of service that may be offered through digital telephones is the ability to receive updated personal identification information such as contact information from a server. For example if a plurality of users wishes to receive information about changed contact details such as a new telephone number for a subscriber such users may receive such information through communication devices connected to a server which can update their address books or stored information about telephone numbers and the subscribers associated therewith. Optionally other types of contact information may also be updated including email and postal addresses type of position held photographs and the like. Such a service is useful for members of an organization such as a company for example and for consumers who are interested for maintaining up to date contact information for their contacts. Current data synchronization services that are offered by network operators through protocols as SyncML Synchronization Markup Language synchronizes contact information and other Personal Information Management PIM data e.g. calendar notes between a subscriber and a server. Synchronization between multiple subscribers is not provided by standardized systems.

Unfortunately although the above service is useful for backup and restore in case of data loss it can only redistribute information between telephones in the context of a single user account. Therefore it has limited capacity for installing updated information and or for distributing such information between different users across the system. Two way communication between the telephone and the server is also limited as the majority if not all communication is initiated by the telephone only pull .

There is thus an unmet need for and it would be highly useful to have a system and method for propagating personal identification information between a telephones or any other communication devices using a central server.

The present invention overcomes the disadvantages of the background art by providing a system and method for propagating personal identification information between a communication device through an agent installed on the communication device and utilization of the regular interfaces of the device such as phonebook gallery and SMS composition functions and a central server. Such communication optionally and preferably comprises two way synchronization between the server and the communication device through the agent such that each of the agent and the server may optionally push or pull information The server optionally serves as a central unit through which the information is optionally propagated from one agent to the other agents.

Upon synchronization the agent and server preferably exchange information such as for example updated personal identification information. As part of the synchronization process the agent provides information to the server such as for example a change in certain identification information. For example if the user of the communication device enters a change to the identification information in the communication device whether the user s contact information and or contact information of another person the agent preferably propagates such a change to the server. The server then optionally distributes the change to a plurality of subscribers or even to all subscribers.

According to preferred embodiments of the present invention the first time that synchronization occurs between the agent and the server the server preferably creates a special contact in the address book of each user more preferably through the agent. This contact is a Self Contact which represents the actual user of the communication device and preferably contains the owner s personal contact data which is saved at the server optionally in an associated storage and or computer for example and is preferably then propagated to other communication devices. This contact can be edited through the embedded address book contact information application of the communication device such as a telephone for example just like any other contact. However changes in the Self Contact are optionally and preferably reflected at the data stored and or controlled by the server and propagated by the server to other users in the system who have that individual user as contact in their address books and who are members in the service more preferably through synchronization with the server as described in greater detail below.

Synchronization between the agent and the server may optionally occur periodically for example according to a pre determined cycle or alternatively synchronization may optionally occur upon detection of an event for example upon changing identification information or alternatively triggered by the server through a Communication Initiation Request CIR .

According to preferred embodiments of the present invention various types of information may optionally be exchanged through the synchronization process. For example a user may optionally provide a picture through the telephone of the user or of someone else which may then optionally and preferably be associated with the contact details of that person. As a result the picture is associated with the incoming telephone call of that person and automatically displayed by the phone. The agent may then preferably provide the picture to the server as part of the synchronization process. The server may then optionally distribute the picture to other users for example through agents again as part of the synchronization process.

According to other embodiments of the present innovation the server transfers to the communication device or application only data that is capable of being handled by this device or application. For example if user A inserts video data into the personal identification information i.e. the Self Contact of user A and user B uses a cellular telephone which does not support video then the server does not transfer the video data to the cellular telephone of user B. Thus preferably only information of a type and or format which is supported by the capabilities of the receiving communication device and or application is transferred upon updating of the Self Contact information. Optionally the data is re formatted and or otherwise adjusted in order to match the capabilities of the receiving device or application.

Of course text sound for example optionally with regard to a ringtone photograph or other image avatar video other visual information or indeed any other type of information may optionally be exchanged between the agent and the server as part of the Self Contact such that the user may optionally indicate that such information is to be associated with the personal information of the user and then optionally propagated to the communication devices of other users. In the case of certain types of information such as music for example there may optionally be added one or more safeguards to the information for example to limit distribution to only one user and or only to a certain group of users and or users having certain rights or other characteristics. These safeguards may optionally be installed through the server such that only agents possessing a certain key or other characteristics may access it.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. The materials methods and examples provided herein are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.

Implementation of the method and system of the present invention involves performing or completing certain selected tasks or stages manually automatically or a combination thereof. Moreover according to actual instrumentation and equipment of preferred embodiments of the method and system of the present invention several selected stages could be implemented by hardware or by software on any operating system of any firmware or a combination thereof. For example as hardware selected stages of the invention could be implemented as a chip or a circuit. As software selected stages of the invention could be implemented as a plurality of software instructions being executed by a computer using any suitable operating system. In any case selected stages of the method and system of the invention could be described as being performed by a data processor such as a computing platform for executing a plurality of instructions.

Although the present invention is described with regard to telephones and other communication devices it should be noted that any device featuring a data processor and featuring some kind of local storage including but not limited to a flash memory memory card SIM card or a hard disk with the ability to support at least voice communication may be described as a telephone. For example a communication device may optionally be described as any application and or device that manages an address book phonebook contacts buddy list by IM instant messaging applications and or the like preferably voice and or video communication is enabled. The device preferably comprises an agent which communicates with a synchronization server on a server through a wireless network a computer network or a combination thereof for example and without limitation cellular networks GSM GPRS UMTS CDMA etc. wireless networks WiFi WiMax etc. and the Internet. The agent and the synchronization server preferably communicate according to a proprietary protocol for synchronizing one or more data items whether automatically or manually.

The agent according to the present invention is preferably operative over a wide variety of platforms and more preferably is device agnostic . The agent may optionally be provided by the device manufacturer using standard protocols such as OMA DS SyncML Optionally the agent may be implemented using platforms including but are not limited to Java Micro Edition J2ME Symbian Windows Mobile BREW STK Windows PC Client Mobile Linux Android LiPS LiMo etc. or Apple iPhone or the like.

Optionally the agent is implemented as a J2ME MIDlet. The J2ME runtime environment is based on a virtual machine that runs on top of the phone s operating system and provides restricted access to some of the resources of the phone. The basic J2ME profile for mobile phones is the Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP but there are additional optional libraries that are available for accessing PIM data and the file system.

Optionally implementation of the agent also uses the SIM Toolkit STK which enables the development of JavaCard applets that run on the SIM card. The STK environment is very limited in terms of functionality and space but it provides essential access data that is stored on the SIM card including the address book.

A server as termed herein optionally and preferably comprises any computer that is connected to a fixed line IP network. It should be noted that optionally any device featuring a data processor and or the ability to execute one or more instructions may be described as a computer including but not limited to a PC personal computer a server or a minicomputer. Any two or more of such devices in communication with each other and or any computer in communication with any other computer may optionally comprise a computer network .

The present invention is of a system and method for propagating identification information between users preferably through communication devices and optionally and more preferably through an agent installed on the communication device and a server. Such process optionally and preferably comprises two way synchronization between the server and the communication device through the agent such that each of the agent and the server may optionally push or pull information. Alternatively only one of the agent and or the server optionally initiates synchronization optionally the user initiates synchronization through manual activation of the communication device for example through manual activation of the agent at the communication device.

Upon synchronization the server preferably exchanges information with the agent such as for example updated personal identification information. Optionally and preferably the agent may also push information to the server such as for example a change in certain contact information. For example if the user enters a change to the contact information in the telephone whether the user s contact information and or contact information of another person the agent preferably pushes such a change to the server. The server then optionally distributes the change to a plurality of other subscribers to the system or even to all subscribers.

According to preferred embodiments of the present invention the agent which is installed on the telephone is a thin client such that the business logic data adaptation and formatting are preferably performed in the server. Alternatively the agent may optionally perform one or more of the above tasks in synchronization with the server.

Synchronization between the agent and the server may optionally occur periodically for example according to a pre determined cycle or alternatively synchronization may optionally occur upon detection of an event for example upon changing contact information or alternatively triggered by the server through a Communication Initiation Request CIR . A CIR can be sent as an SMS message UDP packet SIP message or any other mobile terminated MT protocol. On the device the CIR is either handled by a built in Push Registry mechanism as implemented in J2ME or by a proprietary listener.

According to preferred embodiments of the present invention synchronization also includes backing up information from the telephone to the server including but not limited to one or more of user determined telephone settings contact information software installed on the telephone and the like. If required for example upon by a request by the user or alternatively as automatically determined by the agent the backed up information is preferably restored through an interaction of the server and the agent. Preferably the data may be restored on a telephone which is different from the one from which back up was originally performed for example if the user changes handsets.

According to preferred embodiments of the present invention various types of information may optionally be exchanged through the synchronization process. For example a user may optionally provide a picture through the telephone of the user or of someone else which may then optionally and preferably be associated with the contact details of that person. As a result the picture is associated with the incoming telephone call of that person and automatically displayed by the phone. The agent may then preferably provide the picture to the server as part of the synchronization process. The server may then preferably provide the picture to other agents again as part of the synchronization process. Preferably the user providing the picture is able to determine whether this picture will be provided to other users when calling more preferably this user is also able to determine the ring tone which will be heard by that other user.

According to preferred embodiments of the present invention at least the first time that synchronization occurs between the agent and the server preferably for a particular user such that if the telephone becomes identified with a different user this process preferably occurs again the system preferably creates a special contact in the address book of each user more preferably through the agent. This contact is a Self Contact which represents the actual user of the telephone and preferably contains the telephone owner personal data which is saved at the server for example optionally at an associated storage and or other computer or device and is copied to the telephone. This contact can be edited through the embedded address book contact information application of the telephone just like any other contact. However changes in the Self Contact are optionally and preferably reflected in the server and propagated by the server to other users in the system who have that individual user as contact in their address books and who are interested in the service more preferably through synchronization with the server as described in greater detail below.

For example assume that User A appears as contact in the address books of Users B and C. When User A updates his self contact with a new telephone number through the embedded Address book of his telephone the agent which is installed on User A s phone preferably identifies this change and updates the server. The server in turn preferably distributes this update to Users B and C through the agents on their phones. As a result Users B and C automatically and transparently receive the updated contact information of User A in their phones address books.

The above scenario is applicable not only to contact information such as telephone numbers email and postal addresses but also to the audible and visual representation of each user which may be associated to the Self Contact through the telephone book contact list of the telephone. A user can optionally determine which picture sound ringtone and or video other users will see hear when he she calls them. This is done in a similar method as updating contact information through the Self Contact. Most modern digital telephones allow the user to associate a ringtone photo and video with any contact in his her address book automatically displayed played when this contact calls in . Specifically it can optionally and preferably be done with the Self Contact. When the agent identifies such an association it preferably sends the information to the server along with the relevant media picture audio and or video . The server optionally and preferably distributes the information and media to all the users that have that individual user in their address books. As a result when the first user calls another user who is also using the system the other user will see hear the picture audio video that was determined by the first user.

The Self Contact may optionally include any type of PIM personal information management information for managing personal information which may optionally include but is not limited to one or more of name address title company personal notes contact information e.g. telephone numbers e mail address instant messaging IM identification or address physical address and or any other type of contact detail or information significant calendar dates such as birthday and one or more anniversaries reminders image ringtone video audio avatar and the like.

The principles and operation of the present invention may be better understood with reference to the drawings and the accompanying description. Although the below description is provided with regard to the operation of a telephone whether a cellular or fixed line telephone it is understood that it optionally applies to any type of communication device and or application.

Referring now to the drawings is a schematic block diagram of an exemplary system according to the present invention. As shown a system features an agent and a server . Agent is shown as preferably being installed in telephone while server is optionally and preferably installed in the IP network of the operator or in a hosting site ASP shown as a host .

Server is responsible for synchronizing and storing the personal data of users as obtained from agent optionally and preferably through a server module as shown. Data is preferably stored in its original format allowing server to adapt the data to the capabilities of each device not shown .

Agent preferably synchronizes various types of data including but not limited to contact information calendar pictures video audio messages etc. between telephone and server . Agent preferably operates periodically checking for updated PIM items and media files alternatively agent may be activated in response to a triggering event such as a change to contact information for example Once activated agent optionally and preferably connects to server more preferably through server module exchanges the new or modified data and receives updates from server . Such an exchange may optionally occur through push or pull or combination thereof by either or both of agent and server . Agent preferably does not require any interaction with the user such that the synchronization process is preferably fully automatic. Agent may optionally not provide a user interface or alternatively may preferably provide a simple configuration screen. Agent can optionally be started by the user or initiated by server . Upon initiation for the first time agent preferably creates a self contact for the user in the contact information of telephone not shown . This self contact contains the user s own contact information should the user change this information agent is preferably activated and sends this change to server which then preferably propagates the changed contact information to other agents and hence other telephones in system which have the user as a contact not shown .

Communication between agent and server is performed through a communication channel which may optionally be wired or wireless and which also optionally may comprise a plurality of different hops rather than a single direct connection . For example communication channel may optionally comprise a wireless packet data network such as GPRS EDGE UMTS WCDMA EVDO WiFi etc. Preferably communication between agent and server is based upon IP Internet Protocol and thus is network agnostic. Agent and server preferably communicate according to XML over HTTP HTTPS. Triggers signals or messages for initiating an event are optionally and preferably sent over SMS WAP Push or TCP UDP.

Server also preferably provides a Web interface not shown through a Web server which allows users to edit their data preferably with regard to the Self Contact personal information and initiate various operations of agent including but not limited to Synchronization Backup Restore and Wipe Out for removing all information of a particular type or even all information on the telephone .

Agent is optionally and preferably implemented according to one of the following technologies Mobile Java J2ME or Java 2 platform Micro Edition open operating systems for telephones such as Symbian and Windows Mobile not shown Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW Qualcomm s technology applicable mostly for CDMA phones not shown or embedded applications pre integrated with the telephone s firmware not shown .

With regard to Java based implementations of agent which is the exemplary implementation described with regard to preferably implementation is performed according to JSR Java Specification Request 185 and J2ME CLDC Connected Limited Device Configuration and MIDP Mobile Information Device Profile are used. CLDC is based on a virtual machine originally intended for use on telephones with limited functionality and or computing power such as mobile telephones for example. It is suitable for devices that have 16 to 32 bit RISC CISC microprocessors controllers and at least 160 KB of total memory available for the implementation of the virtual machine. CLDC provides the Java platform runtime and libraries which in turn are used as the basis for MIDP. A CLDC interface is shown for interacting with agent .

Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP is a specification published for the use of Java on embedded devices such as mobile phones and PDAs. Other profiles of J2ME are suitable for other types of devices. MIDP in turn provides the user interface for the telephone network connectivity local data storage and application management through a standardized set of Java APIs. Agent preferably uses the PIM API of JSR 75 in order to obtain such information as contact information pictures and so forth.

Agent preferably accesses PIM Personal Information Management data contact information calendar notes and the like and a File System through a JSR 75 interface .

The server not shown see is preferably able to initiate communication with agent through a JSR 120 interface which provides a wireless messaging API application programming interface for SMS Short Message Service messages. JSR 180 API not shown provides access to communication over SIP Session Initiation Protocol as another non limiting example for communication. JSR 120 interface provides access to network specific SMS messaging on GSM Global System for Mobile Communications or CDMA Code Division Multiple Access networks. JSR 120 interface also supports the ability of a Java program to be launched in response to a SMS message also known as SMS push such that for example agent may optionally be activated in response to a SMS message from server not shown and or from another component of the system not shown .

The telephone is operated according to an operating system shown as OS . OS interacts with a Java Virtual Machine JVM and an Application Management Software AMS . The telephone also features a push registry which allows agent to register for incoming messages specially for triggering operations by Communication Initiation Requests CIRs sent by the server not shown .

Agent may also optionally or alternatively communicate with various components of the telephone not shown through Synchronization Markup Language SyncML officially called OMA Data Synchronization a standard technology to synchronize contact and calendar information between some type of mobile device and a computer personal or network based service . SyncML also provides support for push e mail thereby allowing e mail messages to be pushed from server not shown to agent . SyncML may optionally be used by agent if for example the above types of communication technologies are not suitable for communicating with the telephone.

Agent may also optionally or alternatively communicate with various components of the telephone not shown through the SIM Toolkit STK which for example provides access to contacts that are stored on the SIM card not shown .

Agent may also optionally or alternatively be implemented according to Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW Qualcomm s technology . BREW features libraries and software frameworks for supporting programs such as agent and also provides support for interactions between agent and other components of the telephone. BREW also includes functionality for event handling.

Agent may optionally be implemented on various types of smart phones implemented according to different types of open and or otherwise accessible operating systems and or devices accessible through different SDKs including but not limited to such as the Windows Mobile OS operating system of Microsoft Corp the Symbian operating system the iPhone SDK Apple Inc or Android of the Open Handset Alliance initiated by Google .

Upon first synchronization between the server and user A communication device for example self contact information is optionally copied from the user profile in the server and transferred via communication channel to user A communication device . Such self contact information may also optionally be provided to the server through a web based interface in addition such self contact information may also optionally be updated through such a web based interface. Alternatively or additionally as described herein such initial creation and or updating of the self contact information may optionally be performed through user A communication device .

The agent optionally copies this information to the address book . The owner and or user of user A communication device may optionally update the self contact information using the address book interface and or as previously described through a web based interface. Server optionally and periodically synchronizes with agent for such updating when performed through user A communication device otherwise the web based interface preferably provides information directly to server . When user A of user A communication device adds user B to address book the synchronization process handled by the agent and the server updates the user self contact information in the user profile using communication channel . The server then optionally checks if user B is enrolled to the service. If so then user A self contact information is preferably transferred to user B communication device of user B via communication channel . The agent optionally copies this information to the address book of user B communication device shown as copy of user A self contact information . The same process is preferably performed when user A updates self contact information .

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments it will be appreciated that many variations modifications and other applications of the invention may be made.

