---

title: Optimizing a presence enabled managed service
abstract: Methods, systems, processes and devices are provided for optimizing throughput and quality of service of a presence enabled managed service. The method includes at least a first entity requesting from an aggregator of presence services presence information of a second entity. The method includes looking up a profile of the aggregator stored in a cache of a presence server hosted by the presence enabled managed service. The method includes determining from the profile an aggregator level of service the aggregator has subscribed to from the presence enabled managed service, wherein the aggregator level of service is one of high level service, medium level service, and low level service. The method includes storing presence information of the second entity on a presence document on the cache and returning the presence information to the first entity based upon the aggregator level of service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08051136&OS=08051136&RS=08051136
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08051136
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081013
---
The present invention generally describes methods processes systems and devices for optimizing quality of service reducing latency and improving throughput of presence related requests in an IP multimedia subsystem based telecommunications network.

Presence enabled managed services are known in the art. Presence enabled managed services enable presence information of a presentity to be provided to a presence requester. The presence information denotes the presentity s ability and availability to communicate with the presence requestor. Presence information is represented as an extensible markup language document XML called a presence document that is a record of the presence associated with the presentity at a given point in time. This presence document is stored in a presence server such as an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS compliant Session Initiation Protocol SIP application server. IMS is an architectural framework for delivering internet protocol IP multimedia to mobile users. The SIP is a signalling protocol widely used for setting up and tearing down multimedia communication sessions such as voice and video calls over the Internet.

However there remains a number of deployment complexities with respect to the actual deployment of a presence server in a telecommunications network. First most telecommunications carriers have very few IMS subscribers with IMS compliant handsets.

Second presence information in a typical network will require the collection of presence information from an IMS core and a number of other legacy non IMS network components. These non IMS network components include location platforms the Home Location Register HLR infrastructure the legacy data network which includes over the air interfaces such as GPRS 1XRtt EVDO Wifi networks and others and other legacy instant messaging platforms that are not SIP compliant such as an external IM gateway.

Third the obtaining of presence information is complicated by several factors. In the absence of a custom interface written for these legacy sources a pull based model may be required to collect presence information from these sources. A pull based model may be very expensive in terms of network resource consumed and sometimes is of very high latency. For example a location request which could be one of the nodes of the presence document could take over 10 12 seconds in most wireless networks making it very difficult to incorporate this element of presence efficiently.

To leverage presence services to build higher level composite services a set of immediate aggregators and independent software vendors ISV s outside the carrier domain will probably be a big consumer of basic presence services from the telecommunications service provider. As such a more logical implementation interface for these external requests are paradigms such as web services rather than SIP based signaling. This is because exposing SIP outside the services provider domain has a number of issues associated with it.

Notifications to presence requesters who have subscribed to presence information may follow established web services based mechanisms such as Parlay X 2.0 and Parlay X 2.1 or protocols such as REST Representational State Transfer .

Methods systems processes and devices are provided for optimizing throughput and quality of service of a presence enabled managed service. In an embodiment of the invention the method comprises 1 at least a first entity requesting from an aggregator of presence services presence information of a second entity 2 looking up a profile of the aggregator stored in a cache of a presence server hosted by the presence enabled managed service 3 determining from the profile an aggregator level of service the aggregator has subscribed to from the presence enabled managed service wherein the aggregator level of service is one of high level service medium level service and low level service and 4 storing the presence information of the second entity on a presence document on the cache and returning the presence information to the first entity based upon the aggregator level of service.

In another embodiment of the invention there is provided a method of deploying an application enabling optimizing throughput and quality of service of a presence enabled managed service. The method comprises providing a computational device infrastructure configured to 1 enable a first entity to request from an aggregator of presence services presence information of a second entity 2 look up a profile of the aggregator stored in a cache of a presence server hosted by the presence enabled managed service 3 determine from the profile an aggregator level of service the aggregator has subscribed to from the presence enabled managed service wherein the aggregator level of service is one of high level service medium level service and low level service and 4 store the presence information of the second entity on a presence document on the cache and return the presence information to the first entity based upon the aggregator level of service.

In another embodiment of the invention there is provided a method of optimizing throughput and quality of service of a presence enabled managed service. The method comprises 1 producing computer executable program code 2 storing the code on a computer readable medium 3 providing the program code to be deployed and executed on a computer system the program code causing the computer system to a enable a first entity to request from an aggregator of presence services presence information of a second entity b look up a profile of the aggregator stored in a cache of a presence server hosted by the presence enabled managed service c determine from the profile an aggregator level of service the aggregator has subscribed to from the presence enabled managed service wherein the aggregator level of service is one of high level service medium level service and low level service and d store the presence information of the second entity on a presence document on the cache and return the presence information to the first entity based upon the aggregator level of service.

In another embodiment of the invention there is provided a programmable device. The device comprises 1 a processing means 2 a memory in communication with the processing means comprising an instruction logic parser logic component 3 a network interface in communication with the processing means and the memory wherein the processing means is configured to a parse a request from a first entity requesting from an aggregator of presence services presence information of a second entity b look up a profile of the aggregator stored in a cache of a presence server hosted by the presence enabled managed service c determine from the profile an aggregator level of service the aggregator has subscribed to from the presence enabled managed service wherein the aggregator level of service is one of high level service medium level service and low level service and d store the presence information of the second entity on a presence document on the cache and return the presence information to the first entity based upon the aggregator level of service.

The drawings are not necessarily to scale. The drawings are merely schematic representations not intended to portray specific parameters of the invention. The drawings are intended to depict only typical embodiments of the invention and therefore should not be considered as limiting the scope of the invention. In the drawings like numbering represents like elements.

The present application discloses systems methods devices and program products for managing and optimizing presence related requests to at least one aggregator or subscriber of presence enabled managed services. In an embodiment of the invention the provider of the presence enabled services hereinafter presence service is typically a telecommunication service hosting a telecommunication network for hosting telecommunications such as cellular telephone service or other voice and data communications. In an embodiment the telecommunication service hosts a presence server for storing presence information about one or more presentities connected directly or indirectly to the telecommunication service. For example the presence service may store presence information about presentities including whether a presentity is currently connected to the telecommunications service and available for communicating with the presence requestor.

In another embodiment of the invention the presence information is stored on a presence server that is hosted by an entity that is external to the telecommunications service. Presence information about a presentity that is requested from a presence requester connected to the telecommunications network is retrieved from the presence server of the entity through the telecommunications network. The presentity may be connected directly to the telecommunications service or it may be connected to the presence service through another communications or computer network. Alternately the presence requester may be indirectly connected to the telecommunications service through another communications network and be requesting presence information about a presentity connected directly to the telecommunications service.

The at least one aggregator may be a subscription based service such as GOOGLE YAHOO MSN and AOL IM or other service wherein the presence requester and or the presentity may subscribe and log in to the service through the telecommunications network or other computer network connected to the telecommunications network. GOGGLE is a trademark of Google Inc. in the United States or other countries YAHOO is a trademark of Yahoo Inc. in the United States or other countries MSN is a trademark of the Microsoft Corporation in the United States or other countries and AOL IM is a trademark of AOL Inc. in the United States or other countries. For example a presence requestor may log onto a subscription based service on a computer network through a remote computer and request presence information about a presentity that is connected directly to the telecommunications service through a remote device such as a cellular telephone or other mobile wireless device having a unique identifier such as a mobile device number MDN . Once the presence information is received the presence requester may initiate communication with the presentity if available using a medium such as instant messaging service using the SIP protocol or other messaging communication services such as SMS text messaging VOIP data over IP and cellular telephones .

Alternately a presence requester connected directly to the telecommunications service through a device such as a cellular telephone or other mobile device may request presence information about a presentity connected to a computer network connected to the telecommunications service through a remote computer. It should be understood that there may be multiple aggregators alternately referred to as subscribers that partner with and have a service level agreement SLA with the presence service for providing presence requesters with presence information for presentities connected thereto. Thus a presence requester that subscribes to one aggregator connected to the presence service may request presence information of a presentity that is a subscriber of another aggregator also connected to the presence server.

The presence information that may be provided to a presence requester about a presentity includes the presentities availability to communicate with the presence requestor e.g. including but not limited to whether the presentity is on line will accept all communications or only communications of a particular type voice text data protocol or from specified presence requestors the channel for communicating with the presentity is busy and wishes to not be disturbed is currently on a cellular phone voice or data session is in a particular location or out of a particular location the last time the presentity was logged on what activities the presentity may be doing or other information the presentity may wish the presence requestor to have.

The presence information of the presentity is stored on a presence document on the presence server. The presence document may be an XML document or a representational state transfer REST based resource document which allows for the document to be stored and transmitted via a standardized interface e.g. HTTP and exchange representations of these resources. The use of the REST based resource presence document provides improved response time and reduced server load due to its support for the caching of representations of the presence document which is discussed in more detail below. In addition the use of the REST based resource for the presence document allows the presence request to be also of the REST based resource protocol providing for improved response time and reduced server load.

In another embodiment of the invention the aggregator may include in the SLA an agreement to provide other information to the presentities or presence requestors when they log onto the telecommunications service or computer network connected to the telecommunications service. For example when a particular presentity or presence requestor connects to the telecommunications service or computer network the aggregator may provide information such as the weather traffic information or other information relevant to the location of the presentity or presence requester.

In an embodiment of the invention the systems methods devices and program products uses a specialized caching algorithm for managing presence data so that it is more efficiently provided to presence requestors while reducing latency and increasing overall platform throughput via a caching mechanism. Particularly the present application discloses systems methods devices and program products that allow subscribers to request presence information on an as needed basis and also optimize the way it is reused for their own needs. With the use of lazy caching or predictive caching the subscriber is able to determine if subcomponents of the presence information is likely to be called by the presence requestor. The subscriber has the ability to inform the system what items of presence information that may need to be placed in cache that are subcomponents of the presence request. The presence service uses an algorithm for combining quality of service QOS specified in the SLA between the subscriber and the presence service. The SLA also provides for the subscriber signing up for a level of throughput Q and a trigger level that proactively starts asynchronous presence requests under special conditions. The presence service hosts a computer system known as a presence server that uses an optimization agent to determine which items should be cached based off of a subscriber s priority and probability that a subset of a presence document will be required by the presence requester. This aids in determining what subsets of a document should or should not be cached for use by the user.

The optimization mechanism may also use REST based abstraction for presence documents that goes back on the intial request to retrieve a base presence document but is effectively able to evaluate if subsets of the base document are sufficient for future subsequent presence requests made by the presence requester.

Referring now to shown is block diagram of an embodiment of an architecture of systems methods devices and program products for optimizing quality of service reducing latency and improving throughput of presence related requests in an IP multimedia subsystem based telecommunications network. At least one presence requester is connected to an access network through a communications link which may be a telecommunications service or other communications network. Communications link may be a wireless communications connection or other communications connection. The presence requester may connect to the access network with a mobile device such as a wireless mobile device or other communications device. For example the mobile device may be a cellular telephone or wireless personal computing device or a remote computer. The mobile device may include a mobile device number MDN or other unique identifier.

The access network is connected via communications link to one or more aggregators of presence based managed services on a subscription basis as defined in the SLA and collectively shown in in the Aggregator and Reseller Tier . Thus the presence requester is connected to one or more of the aggregators through the access network . Alternately the presence requester may be connected to one or more aggregators through another communications network.

At least one presentity is connected to the access network through a communications link which may be a telecommunications service or other communications network. Communications link may be a wireless communications connection or other communications connection. The presentity may connect to the access network with the mobile device such as the wireless mobile device or other communications device. For example the mobile device may be a cellular telephone or wireless personal computing device or a remote computer. Thus the presence requestor is connected to one or more of the aggregators through the access network . Alternately the presentity may be connected to one or more aggregators through another communications network.

The access network may be a telecommunications service which provides the presence enabled managed services to the one or more of the aggregators . If the access network provides the presence enabled managed services to the one or more of the aggregators then the access network will host a presence server using the SIP signalling protocol such as the Presence SIP Application Server shown in . Alternately the presence service could be another entity outside of the telecommunication service domain that hosts a presence server such as the Presence SIP Application Server . In this case aggregators are connected to the presence server via communications link . The presence server collects and stores presence information for presentities that subscribe to one of the aggregators . Thus a presence requestor that subscribes to one of the aggregators may request presence information stored on the presence server of a presentity that subscribes to one of the aggregators .

The presence server includes an optimization agent that uses a specialized caching algorithm for managing presence data so that it more efficiently provided to presence requesters while reducing latency and increasing overall platform throughput via a caching mechanism. The optimization agent determines what items should be cached on the presence server based on the aggregator s priority and probability that a subset of a presence document will be required by the subscriber. This determines what subsets of a presence document should or should not be cached for use by the aggregators according to the SLA between the presence service and the particular aggregator.

The optimization agent uses three dimensions for optimization. The dimensions are aggregator priority T throughput Q that the aggregator has signed up for and a proactive caching mechanism or trigger . The threshold priority T value for each aggregator is tiered in categories. For example the aggregator may be a high value subscriber where T is a time x in seconds that is the maximum amount of time that presence information for presentities may remain in cache on the presence server . The aggregator may be a medium value subscriber where T is a time y in seconds that is the maximum amount of time that presence information for presentities may remain in the cache . The aggregator may be a low value subscriber where a time T is a time z in seconds that is the maximum amount of time that presence information for presentities may remain in the cache .

The throughput Q is the threshold throughput value in transactions per second TPS that the aggregator has signed up for. The throughput Q value is the maximum number of presence requests that an aggregator can present to the presence service in one second. For example for a high value subscriber the throughput may be Q x 100 TPS. The throughput Q for a medium value subscriber may be Q y 50 TPS. The throughput Q for a low value subscriber may be Q z 25 TPS.

The third dimension is a threshold trigger value that proactively starts making asynchronous presence requests under special conditions. The special condition may be an amount of time that has elapsed since the last presence request a presence requestor made of a presentity s presence information. For example for a high value subscriber the trigger may be x 0.1x where x is a predetermined time value e.g. one second. Thus for a high value subscriber the presence server may automatically update the presence information in cache every tenth of a second for presentities currently connected to the presence service. This means that the presence service makes a high effort to provide updated presence information to the presence requester rather than relying on presence information that was collected at an earlier time thereby highly improving quality of service and reducing latency.

The trigger value for a medium value subscriber may be y 0.2y where y is a predetermined time value e.g. one second. Thus for a medium value subscriber the presence server may automatically update the presence information in cache every two tenths of a second for presentities currently connected to the presence service. This means that the presence service makes a moderate effort to provide updated presence information to the presence requester rather than relying on presence information that was collected at an earlier time thereby moderately improving quality of service and reducing latency.

The trigger value for a low value subscriber may be z 0.3z where y is a predetermined time value e.g. one second. Thus for a low value subscriber the presence server automatically updates the presence information in cache every three tenths of a second for presentities currently connected to the presence service. This means that the presence service makes only a slight effort to provide updated presence information to the presence requester rather than relying on presence information that was collected at an earlier time thereby only slightly improving quality of service and reducing latency.

The use of the trigger is particularly useful for optimizing quality of service and reducing latency when using the REST based resource for a presence document since once a presence document received as a result of the initial presence request is stored on the presence server only the portions of the presence document that have changed need to be updated. For example if the initial presence document contained presence information such as the location method of communicating and the presentity s availability for communicating and only the presentity s location changed between presence requests the presence document need only be updated with the presentity s current location. Thus each time the trigger updates the presence document in cache according to the subscriber s usage level only the presence information that has changed since the last request need be updated in cache .

In another embodiment of the invention the presence server may be connected via a communication link to an aggregation proxy server which is connected to one or more sources that may collect presence information about one or more presentities connected to legacy sources such as a legacy WWAN location platform the home location infrastructure HLR and other instant messaging legacy platforms that are not SIP compliant such as an external IM gateway . The aggregation proxy server therefore would require software from independent service vendors ISV S for pulling the presence information from these sources when requested.

Referring now particularly to and to shown is a flow diagram illustrating an embodiment of a method or process using the optimization agent to determine what content of the presence document should be cached based off the aggregator s priority and probability that a subset of a presence document will be required by the subscriber. The method begins in wherein a presence requestor who is a subscriber of one of the aggregators requests presence information of a presentity who is a subscriber of one of the aggregators or the legacy platforms . The presence request is submitted to the presence server hosted by the access network or other computer network. In the optimizing agent performs a lookup of the profile associated with the aggregator the presentity has subscribed to and determines the level of service the aggregator has subscribed to including priority throughput Q and proactive trigger . In the presence request is analyzed. The method continues in step where the optimization agent determines if presence information for the associated mobile device number MDN of the presentity is in cache . If it is not in a query is sent to the presentity and the resulting presence information is added to the presence document in the cache along with a timestamp. In the presence information is then returned to the presence requester .

In it is determined if the presence information for the MDN is in the cache but it has been in the cache for longer than the subscriber priority T a query is sent to the presentity followed by an update of the presence information including timestamp in the cache . In the updated presence information is then returned to the presence requester .

In it is determined if the presence information for the MDN is in the cache and the Q value is equal to or exceeds the threshold for the subscriber level and the time for which the presence information has been in the cache is equal to or less than the trigger then return presence information in the cache but proactively send a presence request to the presentity and update the cache with the updated presence information and timestamp. If the presence information for the MDN is in the cache and the rate of query for the MDN is less than Q for the category of the subscriber and the time value of the trigger the presence information has been there is less than the time value of the trigger associated with the category then in the presence information in the cache is returned to the presence requester .

In the presence information returned in is evaluated to determine if it is a REST based resource presence document and what parts of the presence document is germane to the presence request. If it is not a REST based resource document in the presence information is returned to the presence requester . If the presence document is a REST resource presence document in it is determined if only a subset of the presence document is required to send the current presence information. If only a subset of the presence document is necessary in the subset of the presence document is returned to the presence requester . In if the whole presence document is required the whole presence document is returned to the presence requester in .

The presence requester may send additional attributes in the presence request that assist the optimization agent in determining what subsets of the presence document may be required. This allows the optimization agent to be overridden by the presence requester if the presence requester has permission to override the optimization agent s algorithm. This gives full control to the presence requester to free cache subsets of the presence document that the optimization agent may not have cached. This override prevents the burning of data that may be used in the near future. In addition in step the optimization agent may periodically prune presence documents that remain in cache longer than the maximum allowable time which is the time T of the highest subscriber category.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in any tangible medium of expression having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any combination of one or more computer usable or computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM an optical storage device a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. JAVA is a trademark of Oracle in the United States or other countries SMALLTALK is a trademark of Instantiations Inc. in the United States or other countries. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. Thus embodiments of the present invention comprise methods apparatus e.g. systems devices etc. and computer program products. For example it will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of the figures including as described above and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Referring now to the flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Referring now to an exemplary computerized implementation includes a computer system deployed within a computer infrastructure such as a computer or a programmable device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or cellular phone. This is intended to demonstrate among other things that the present invention could be implemented within a network environment e.g. the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a virtual private network VPN etc. in communication with one or more additional computers or on a stand alone computer infrastructure . In the case of the former communication throughout the network can occur via any combination of various types of communication links. For example the communication links can comprise addressable connections that may utilize any combination of wired and or wireless transmission methods. Where communications occur via the Internet connectivity could be provided by conventional TCP IP sockets based protocol and an Internet service provider could be used to establish connectivity to the Internet.

As shown the computer system includes a central processing unit CPU a memory a bus and input output I O interfaces . Further the computer system is shown in communication with external I O devices resources and storage system . In general the processing unit executes computer program code such as the code to implement various components of the process and system for optimizing quality of service reducing latency and improving throughput of presence related requests in an IP multimedia subsystem based telecommunications network in and described above for example including optimization agent cache and presence document components discussed above which are stored in memory and or storage system . It is to be appreciated that two or more including all of these components may be implemented as a single component.

While executing computer program code the processing unit can read and or write data to from the memory the storage system and or the I O interfaces . The memory may include registers such as registers and where such data is written and or read. The bus provides a communication link between each of the components in computer system . The external devices can comprise any devices e.g. keyboard pointing device display etc. that enable a user to interact with computer system and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system to communicate with one or more other computing devices.

The computer infrastructure is only illustrative of various types of computer infrastructures for implementing the invention. For example in one embodiment computer infrastructure comprises two or more computing devices e.g. a server cluster that communicate over a network to perform the various process steps of the invention. Moreover computer system is only representative of various possible computer systems that can include numerous combinations of hardware.

To this extent in other embodiments the computer system can comprise any specific purpose computing article of manufacture comprising hardware and or computer program code for performing specific functions any computing article of manufacture that comprises a combination of specific purpose and general purpose hardware software or the like. In each case the program code and hardware can be created using standard programming and engineering techniques respectively. Moreover the processing unit may comprise a single processing unit or be distributed across one or more processing units in one or more locations e.g. on a client and server. Similarly the memory and or the storage system can comprise any combination of various types of data storage and or transmission media that reside at one or more physical locations.

Further I O interfaces can comprise any system for exchanging information with one or more of the external device . Still further it is understood that one or more additional components e.g. system software math co processing unit etc. not shown in can be included in computer system . However if computer system comprises a handheld device or the like it is understood that one or more of the external devices e.g. a display and or the storage system could be contained within computer system not externally as shown.

The storage system can be any type of system e.g. a database capable of providing storage for information under the present invention. To this extent the storage system could include one or more storage devices such as a magnetic disk drive or an optical disk drive. In another embodiment the storage system includes data distributed across for example a local area network LAN wide area network WAN or a storage area network SAN not shown . In addition although not shown additional components such as cache memory communication systems system software etc. may be incorporated into computer system .

Still yet computer infrastructure is intended to demonstrate that some or all of the components of implementation could be deployed managed serviced etc. by a service provider who offers to implement deploy and or perform the functions of the present invention for others for example by licensing methods and browser or application server technology according to the present invention to an internet service providers ISP or cellular telephone provider. In one embodiment the invention may comprise a business method that performs the process steps of the invention on a subscription advertising and or fee basis. Thus a service provider can create maintain support etc. a computer infrastructure such as the computer infrastructure that performs the process steps of the invention for one or more customers and in return the service provider can receive payment from the customer s under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service provider can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

The invention also provides for computer implemented methods according to the present application. In this case a computer infrastructure such as computer infrastructure can be provided and one or more systems for performing the process steps of the invention can be obtained e.g. created purchased used modified etc. and deployed to the computer infrastructure. To this extent the deployment of a system can comprise one or more of 1 installing program code on a computing device such as computer system from a computer readable medium 2 adding one or more computing devices to the computer infrastructure and 3 incorporating and or modifying one or more existing systems of the computer infrastructure to enable the computer infrastructure to perform the process steps of the invention.

As used herein it is understood that the terms program code and computer program code are synonymous and mean any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a computing device having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation and or b reproduction in a different material form. To this extent program code can be embodied as one or more of an application software program component software a library of functions an operating system a basic I O system driver for a particular computing and or I O device and the like.

The foregoing description of various aspects of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

