---

title: Blast shield for armored vehicle
abstract: A protective shield apparatus for a light armor vehicle having a turret includes a generally flat base plate mounted to the turret; an armor plate fixed to the base plate and including a front panel, a first side panel, a second side panel and a rear panel, the armor plate being canted vertically outward from the base plate; each of the first side panel, second side panel and rear panel including a ballistic glass window; a rear bracket connected at one end to a rear of the base plate and at another end to the turret; and a z-bracket connected at one end to the rear of the base plate and at another end the z-bracket bears against the turret.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07942092&OS=07942092&RS=07942092
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07942092
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080804
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The invention relates in general to armored combat vehicles and in particular to blast shields for armored combat vehicles.

Light armored combat vehicles may include a rotating turret with one or more weapons mounted thereon. The turret may have two hatches one for the gunner and one for the vehicle commander. Soldiers open the hatches to survey the surrounding landscape. The turrets generally do not have any armor above the level of the hatch opening to protect the soldier s exposed upper body. Therefore there is a need for protection when the soldier exposes the upper portion of his body above the hatch opening.

One aspect of the invention is a protective shield apparatus for a light armor vehicle having a turret comprising a generally flat base plate mounted to the turret an armor plate fixed to the base plate and including a front panel a first side panel a second side panel and a rear panel the armor plate being canted vertically outward from the base plate each of the first side panel second side panel and rear panel including a ballistic glass window a rear bracket connected at one end to a rear of the base plate and at another end to the turret and a z bracket connected at one end to the rear of the base plate and at another end the z bracket bears against the turret.

Another aspect of the invention is a light armor vehicle comprising a turret with a front and a rear lifting eye a generally flat base plate mounted to the turret an armor plate fixed to the base plate and including a front panel a first side panel a second side panel and a rear panel the armor plate being canted vertically outward from the base plate each of the first side panel second side panel and rear panel including a ballistic glass window a rear bracket connected at one end to a rear of the base plate and at another end to the turret and a z bracket connected at one end to the rear of the base plate and at another end the z bracket bears against the turret.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The invention is a modular protective device for armored vehicles. The invention has direct application to the vehicle commander hatch of the Light Armored Vehicle LAV to protect the vehicle commander from small arms fire and fragmentation resulting from explosive devices. The invention mounts to the turret of the LAV and other armored vehicles to provide front side and rear protection. Transparent armor ballistic glass windows is utilized to provide visibility without compromising protection. The invention fully integrates with the Light Armored Vehicle LAV 25 variant. The apparatus is located on the right side of the turret beside the vehicle commander hatch . is a top view of .

Referring to FIGS. and A C the protective shield comprises a generally flat base plate mounted to the turret and an armor plate fixed to the base plate . The armor plate includes a front panel a first side panel a second side panel and a rear panel . Each of the first side panel second side panel and rear panel include a ballistic glass transparent armor window . A rear bracket is connected at one end to a rear of the base plate and at another end to the turret . A Z bracket is connected at one end to the rear of the base plate with an adjustable fastener such as a cap screw . The other end of the Z bracket bears against the turret . shows the skirt bar that is fixed to the underside of the base plate to provide protection in any open areas between the base plate and the turret .

The Z bracket clasps the underside of the turret and is bolted in tension to the base plate . The Z bracket further secures the base plate to the turret in the vertical direction. The Z bracket is secured to the base plate with a fastener such as a cap screw in a manner to leave a gap between the upper surface of the Z bracket and the bottom surface of the base plate . The gap between the Z bracket and the base plate allows the apparatus to mount to any size turret within the expected variability of the LAV 25 system. The Z bracket is held in tension by tightening the cap screw that holds the Z bracket toward the base plate .

As seen in the armor plate is canted outward from the vertical axis to provide additional protection against close threats while minimizing the amount of material used which minimizes the weight of the apparatus . The amount of cant is in the range of about 10 degrees to about 40 degrees preferably about 25 degrees. The armor plate is configured and formed to provide the optimum angular geometry to maximize protective area. The material of the armor plate may be for example aluminum RHA Steel High Hard Steel titanium or composite laminate. The armor plate is welded or fastened to the base plate . The base plate is mounted flush against the top surface of the turret . The base plate is configured to avoid contact with the vehicle commander station periscopes located on the top of the turret .

Referring to each panel of the armor plate is angled with respect to its adjacent plate. An angle R between the front panel and the first side panel is in the range of about 120 to about 140 degrees and preferably about 128 degrees an angle S between the first side panel and the second side panel is in the range of about 155 to about 175 degrees and preferably about 165 degrees and an angle T between the second side panel and the rear panel is in the range of about 125 to about 150 degrees and preferably about 138 degrees. At the joints between the panels each panel is about twelve inches high. Rear panel is about fifteen inches wide second side panel is about twelve inches wide at the bottom and about fifteen inches wide at the top first side panel is about twelve inches wide and front panel varies in width to accommodate other components present on the turret .

Usage of the periscopes is maintained by positioning the transparent armor windows in the field of view of the periscopes . Therefore a view through the periscopes proceeds through the transparent armor windows for a clear view of the surroundings. The periscopes are operated from inside the vehicle . The apparatus is applicable to both hatches of the turret through proper adjustment of the geometry for attachment purposes. The apparatus is also applicable to other variants of the LAV as well as other light and heavy armored vehicles outside of the LAV Family of Vehicles.

For the LAV 25 the apparatus is modular in that existing attachment points on the gun turret are utilized to mount the apparatus . Standard fastening hardware may be utilized and no welding drilling or special tools are required to attach the apparatus to the LAV 25. The apparatus uniquely mounts to the right and rear lifting eyes of the turret . A third mount is established through the use of the Z bracket .

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

