---

title: Systems and methods for integrating educational software systems
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for integrating educational software. In one implementation, a first method includes providing on a first server an integrated learning management system adapted to exchange education data and materials via a connector interface, providing on the first server a first component which responds to requests made by the integrated system via the connector interface to exchange education data and materials with a first source learning management system, and exchanging education data and materials between the integrated system and the first system via the first component by use of the connector interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08271420&OS=08271420&RS=08271420
owner: Blackboard Inc.
number: 08271420
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081231
---
This application is a Continuation In Part CIP of application Ser. No. 11 822 653 filed Jul. 9 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 788 207. The entire contents of each of the foregoing application are hereby incorporated by reference

The present invention generally relates to the field of educational software. More particularly the invention relates to computerized systems and methods for integrating educational software associated with one or more source systems as well as synchronizing education data and migrating education data and materials between systems.

Electronic learning or e learning typically refers to facilitating and enhancing learning through the use of computers. Electronic learning can include a variety of activities such as video conferencing and or web casting of course instruction online storage of course materials online storage of student portfolios online based course and or testing materials discussion boards e mail blogs and text chat. In recent years electronic learning has grown rapidly as educational institutions have used it to supplement classroom education. For example a traditional course may have an online or electronic counterpart in which students may access course materials interact with other classmates and submit questions to a teacher all via computerized systems. Furthermore educational institutions offer courses that are only available through electronic learning. These courses exist solely in an electronic realm where students attend and complete a course via a computer of their choosing.

To attend an electronic learning course a student is typically provided with credentials e.g. a username and password for accessing a computerized system such as a website. Once authenticated the student is able to for example view a webcast of a course. During or after the webcast the student may access course materials or participate in further online activities e.g. discussion boards e mail blogs and text chat . Furthermore administrator users may access the system in order to create and or modify course enrollments for example. Teacher users may also access the system in order to for example create and or modify course materials and update grades. An example of a system that provides education online including the ability of users to have multiple roles in multiple courses is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 988 138 B1 issued Jan. 17 2006 entitled Internet Based Education Support System and Methods the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Students may also be enrolled in multiple electronic learning courses. In order to access those courses the student may need to navigate using for example a web browser to other websites. For example the student may need to navigate to a website that only provides access to one course. The student may need to navigate to other websites to access other courses. Each website may require the student to submit a different set of credentials for authentication. Furthermore each website may separately store course materials and provide access to online activities which may be specific to the courses accessed from each website. These websites typically do not communicate or share information and consequently are unable to determine that a student is enrolled in other courses.

Systems also present significant drawbacks for other users such as administrators and teachers. For example administrators often must access separate systems and learn separate methods for setting up and managing courses and users. For example an administrator s responsibilities may include updating course enrollments for courses that are provided by different systems. Consequently the administrator may need to access each system and use functionality that is specific to each system to make the changes. Similarly teachers may need to access separate systems and learn separate methods to create modify and manage course materials and grades.

Also a legacy source system which delivers education data and materials relied upon by an educational institution typically represents a significant investment in resources expended in establishing the source system infrastructure. For example typically a great deal of effort is required to establish a feed of student information system data such as user course name course availability and enrollment data into a legacy source system. Once such a feed is established there is generally reluctance to reinvest in a different feed conforming to the needs of a new system. Often the student information system SIS data is tightly coupled to the legacy source system requiring not only educational materials but also SIS data to be transferred over to a replacement system. Accordingly an institution often is locked in to the legacy source system presenting a hurdle for moving to a newer system particularly where an institution may simply be interested in conducting a limited evaluation of the newer system in advance of a full migration to the newer system.

As is evident from the foregoing discussion as electronic learning grows users including students teachers and administrators frequently must access a variety of systems maintain multiple sets of credentials and navigate to separate websites for each course. With such configurations students do not receive an electronic learning experience in which they are part of a community. Accordingly disparate electronic learning systems do not provide students with a unified central electronic learning experience. Furthermore such configurations present drawbacks to teachers and administrators because they are unable to access one system to perform their tasks. Accordingly a unified central electronic learning experience would also benefit teachers and administrators by providing access to all courses and materials from a central aggregating site. Accordingly there is a need for systems and methods for integrating disparate educational software systems.

Consistent with an embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented method for integrating learning management systems may comprise providing on a first server an integrated learning management system adapted to exchange education data and materials via a connector interface providing on the first server a first component which responds to requests made by the integrated system via the connector interface to exchange education data and materials with a first source education learning management system and exchanging education data and materials between the integrated system and the first system via the first component by use of the connector interface.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented method for integrating learning management systems may comprise providing on a first server an integrated learning management system adapted to exchange education data and materials via a connector interface providing on the first server a first component which responds to requests made by the integrated system via the connector interface to exchange education data and materials with a first source education learning management system exchanging education data and materials between the integrated system and the first system via the first component by use of the connector interface providing on the first server a second component which responds to requests made by the integrated system via the connector interface to exchange education data and materials with a second source learning management system and exchanging education data or materials between the integrated system and the second system via the second component by use of the connector interface.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented method for integrating learning management systems may comprise providing on a first server an integrated learning management system adapted to exchange education data and materials via a connector interface providing on the first server a first component which responds to requests made by the integrated system via the connector interface to exchange education data and materials with a first source education learning management system exchanging education data and materials between the integrated system and the first system via the first component by use of the connector interface and exchanging education data or materials with a second source learning management system via the first component by use of the connector interface.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented method for integrating learning management systems may comprise providing on a first server an integrated learning management system adapted to exchange education data and materials via a connector interface providing on the first server a first component which responds to requests made by the integrated system via the connector interface to exchange education data and materials with a first source education learning management system exchanging education data and materials between the integrated system and the first system via the first component by use of the connector interface providing on the first server a second component which responds to requests made by the integrated system via the connector interface to exchange education data and materials with a database said database storing education data and materials being used by a second source learning management system for storing education data and materials and receiving education data or materials from the database via a request made by the integrated system to the connector interface.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented method for integrating learning management systems may comprise providing a user interface via an integrated system by which educational materials are displayed to a user and selecting visual elements provided by the user interface in response to a detected role of the user with respect to the educational materials.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented method for integrating learning management systems may comprise hosting first educational materials corresponding to a first course on an integrated system the first educational materials having been previously hosted on a first source system and obtaining via the connector interface first educational data corresponding to the first educational materials from the first source system in response to accessing the first educational materials hosted on the integrated system.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented method for integrating learning management systems may comprise providing a user interface via an integrated system by which educational materials hosted on a first source system are displayed to a user enrolled in a course and selecting visual elements provided by the user interface for displaying the educational materials based on an indication that visual elements used to the display the educational materials are to correspond to visual elements used to display educational materials hosted by the integrated system.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented method for integrating learning management systems may comprise providing a user interface via the integrated system by which educational materials hosted on an integrated system are displayed to a user enrolled in a course and selecting visual elements provided by the user interface for displaying the educational materials based on an indication that visual elements used to the display the educational materials are to correspond to visual elements used to display educational materials hosted by a different learning management system.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented method for integrating learning management systems may comprise providing on a first server an integrated learning management system adapted to exchange education data and materials via a connector interface providing on the first server a first component which responds to requests made by the integrated system via the connector interface to exchange education data and materials with a first source education learning management system exchanging education data and materials between the integrated system and the first system via the first component by use of the connector interface determining capabilities of the first component for exchanging education data and materials by a query performed via the connector interface and adjusting operations performed by the integrated system in response to a result of the query.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention an integrated system comprises a connector interface adapted to exchange education data and materials in response to a first request by the integrated system and a first component that exchanges education data and materials with a first source education learning management system in response to the request made to the connector interface.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention an integrated system comprises a connector interface adapted to exchange education data and materials in response to a first request by the integrated system a first component that exchanges education data and materials with a first source education learning management system in response to the request made to the connector interface and a second component that exchanges education data and materials with a second source learning management system in response to a second request made to the connector interface.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention an integrated system comprises a connector interface adapted to exchange education data and materials in response to a first request by the integrated system and a first component that exchanges education data and materials with a first source education learning management system in response to the request made to the connector interface wherein the first component exchanges education data and materials with a second source learning management system in response to a second request made to the connector interface.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention an integrated system comprises a connector interface adapted to exchange education data and materials in response to a first request by the integrated system a first component that exchanges education data and materials with a first source education learning management system in response to the request made to the connector interface and a second component that retrieves education data and materials from a database said database being used by a second source learning management system for storing education data and materials.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention an integrated system comprises a user interface that provides educational materials for display to a user and selects visual elements provided to the user in response to a detected role of the user with respect to the educational materials.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention an integrated system is adapted to host first educational materials corresponding to a first course transferred from the source system and the integrated system is adapted to issue an educational data request to the connector interface in response to access of the first educational materials hosted on the integrated system.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention an integrated system comprises a user interface that provides educational materials for display to a user and selects visual elements provided to the user based on an indication that visual elements used to display the educational materials correspond to visual elements used to display educational materials hosted by the integrated system.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention an integrated system comprises a user interface that provides educational materials for display to a user and selects visual elements provided to the user based on an indication that visual elements used to display the educational materials correspond to visual elements used to display educational materials hosted by a different learning management system.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention an integrated system comprises a connector interface adapted to exchange education data and materials in response to a first request by the integrated system and a first component that exchanges education data and materials with a first source education learning management system in response to the request made to the connector interface wherein the connector interface is responsive to a capability request from the integrated system the first component is adapted to indicate its capabilities for exchanging education data and materials in response to the capability request and operations performed by the integrated system are responsive to a result of the capability request.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention one or more computer readable mediums are provided that store program instructions which when executed by a computer cause the computer to implement a method comprising providing on a first server an integrated learning management system adapted to exchange education data and materials via a connector interface providing on the first server a first component which responds to requests made by the integrated system via the connector interface to exchange education data and materials with a first source education learning management system and exchanging education data and materials between the integrated system and the first system via the first component by use of the connector interface.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention one or more computer readable mediums are provided that store program instructions which when executed by a computer cause the computer to implement a method comprising providing on a first server an integrated learning management system adapted to exchange education data and materials via a connector interface providing on the first server a first component which responds to requests made by the integrated system via the connector interface to exchange education data and materials with a first source education learning management system exchanging education data and materials between the integrated system and the first system via the first component by use of the connector interface providing on the first server a second component which responds to requests made by the integrated system via the connector interface to exchange education data and materials with a second source learning management system and exchanging education data or materials between the integrated system and the second system via the second component by use of the connector interface.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention one or more computer readable mediums are provided that store program instructions which when executed by a computer cause the computer to implement a method comprising providing on a first server an integrated learning management system adapted to exchange education data and materials via a connector interface providing on the first server a first component which responds to requests made by the integrated system via the connector interface to exchange education data and materials with a first source education learning management system exchanging education data and materials between the integrated system and the first system via the first component by use of the connector interface and exchanging education data or materials with a second source learning management system via the first component by use of the connector interface.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention one or more computer readable mediums are provided that store program instructions which when executed by a computer cause the computer to implement a method comprising providing on a first server an integrated learning management system adapted to exchange education data and materials via a connector interface providing on the first server a first component which responds to requests made by the integrated system via the connector interface to exchange education data and materials with a first source education learning management system exchanging education data and materials between the integrated system and the first system via the first component by use of the connector interface providing on the first server a second component which responds to requests made by the integrated system via the connector interface to exchange education data and materials with a database said database storing education data and materials being used by a second source learning management system for storing education data and materials and receiving education data or materials from the database via a request made by the integrated system to the connector interface.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention one or more computer readable mediums are provided that store program instructions which when executed by a computer cause the computer to implement a method comprising providing a user interface via the integrated system by which educational materials are displayed to a user and selecting visual elements provided by the user interface in response to a detected role of the user with respect to the educational materials.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention one or more computer readable mediums are provided that store program instructions which when executed by a computer cause the computer to implement a method comprising hosting first educational materials corresponding to a first course on an integrated system the first educational materials having been previously hosted on q first source system and obtaining via the connector interface first educational data corresponding to the first educational materials from the first source system in response to accessing the first educational materials hosted on the integrated system.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention one or more computer readable mediums are provided that store program instructions which when executed by a computer cause the computer to implement a method comprising providing a user interface via an integrated system by which educational materials hosted on a first source system are displayed to a user enrolled in a course and selecting visual elements provided by the user interface for displaying the educational materials based on an indication that visual elements used to the display the educational materials are to correspond to visual elements used to display educational materials hosted by the integrated system.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention one or more computer readable mediums are provided that store program instructions which when executed by a computer cause the computer to implement a method comprising providing a user interface via the integrated system by which educational materials hosted on the integrated system are displayed to a user enrolled in a course and selecting visual elements provided by the user interface for displaying the educational materials based on an indication that visual elements used to the display the educational materials are to correspond to visual elements used to display educational materials hosted by a different learning management system.

Consistent with another embodiment of the present invention one or more computer readable mediums are provided that store program instructions which when executed by a computer cause the computer to implement a method comprising providing on a first server an integrated learning management system adapted to exchange education data and materials via a connector interface providing on the first server a first component which responds to requests made by the integrated system via the connector interface to exchange education data and materials with a first source education learning management system exchanging education data and materials between the integrated system and the first system via the first component by use of the connector interface determining capabilities of the first component for exchanging education data and materials by a query performed via the connector interface and adjusting operations performed by the integrated system in response to a result of the query.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention or embodiments thereof as claimed.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar parts. While several exemplary embodiments are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the components illustrated in the drawings and the exemplary methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding steps to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the invention. Instead the proper scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

Systems and methods according to disclosed embodiments provide for integration of educational software modules from one or more source systems into an integrated or unified learning management system. A learning management system LMS is a software based system that enables management and delivery of online or electronic educational materials to users. Functionality provided by a learning management system may include registering users delivering educational materials such as providing access to course materials and testing discussion boards blogs RSS Really Simple Syndication feeds emails etc. Furthermore a learning management system may provide tools for evaluating student performance. Learning management systems are typically based on various development platforms e.g. Java XML Microsoft.Net framework and may provide access to users via the Internet. Users may include students teachers and administrators. For example a portal may allow a user to supply credentials e.g. a username and password and after being authenticated the user may navigate to courses course materials and other online function

Furthermore a learning management system often provides access control provisioning of e learning materials communication tools and administration of user groups. For example a learning management system may provide functionality for teachers to manage courses and course materials track student progress provide content pages discussion forums chat and create and or modify online testing. For example teachers may participate in discussions conduct instruction post and or modify course materials and maintain a grade book. Administrators may modify courses course materials course enrollments and user accounts. Student users may access educational materials activities and store course work.

In this application the term source system refers to a learning management system or software program that provides an electronic learning course. Examples of source systems include WebCT products Blackboard Vista a course management system and Blackboard Campus Edition a course management system . Source systems may also include other products provided by for example Blackboard Inc. other providers or open source systems. The term integrating refers to incorporating copying or including data for courses users and or enrollments from a source system to a unified system. In this application the term integrated system refers to a learning management system in which educational software is being integrated from one or more source systems. Data for a course may include user data role data specifying roles of the users in a particular course or activity enrollment data other data concerning students e.g. student groups or other course data e.g. announcements or grades .

During an integration process educational materials that are used by the course may remain on a source system and might not be copied to the integrated system. That is the software that provides the course lectures course materials etc. remains hosted by the source system. Typically data that is associated with the course may be stored in the source system. Alternatively data that is subsequently generated by a course such as grades may be stored in the integrated system. After integration the integrated data becomes available through the integrated system but the course software itself is still hosted by the source system. Furthermore the integrated system may provide its own course i.e. a native course that is fully hosted and provided e.g. by an institution application service provider or other entity from the integrated system. An example of an integrated system is the Blackboard Academic Suite available from Blackboard Inc. Users of the Blackboard Academic Suite may for example access courses that are provided by a source system through the Blackboard Academic Suite. To the users the integration provides a seamless educational experience allowing the users to access courses provided by the source system through a central learning management system. Thus to the user it appears that they are accessing and staying within the integrated system when in fact the integrated system provides access to and displays educational materials directly from a source system.

In one embodiment the integrated system may provide a central educational site for users to access courses materials and other functionality. As a result users are able to enjoy an educational experience in which they are able to attend all courses through one site similar to attending a particular institution e.g. a university . Furthermore systems and methods disclosed herein may provide a common course and enrollment infrastructure for the management of courses sections for both courses from the integrated system and source systems. As a result systems and methods disclosed herein may provide a consolidated course list and or course catalog that includes courses from both the integrated system and one or more source systems. Users including students teachers and administrators may benefit from such consolidation. For example administrators may access the integrated system to set up and manage courses and users. Moreover the integrated system may provide shared resources content user tools etc. for courses provided by multiple source systems. Systems and methods consistent with the present invention may further provide consistent security protections for managing and protecting user privacy and user data across both courses from the integrated system and source systems. Furthermore systems and methods disclosed herein may merge multiple user IDS at an institution in order to provide the same user experience for multiple IDS across the integrated system.

Users of the integrated system may access a consolidated course catalog which may provide a listing of courses of one or more source systems and or the integrated system. The course catalog may therefore allow users to access courses regardless of whether the courses are provided by a source system or an integrated system. For example consistent with one embodiment the integrated system can be a stand alone integrated system that provides courses from one or more source systems. In another embodiment the integrated system may provide its own courses i.e. native courses in addition to courses from one or more source systems.

In one embodiment an integrated system may include a learning management system a community and portal system and a content management system. A learning management system may provide tools enabling teachers to generate course materials and content and may facilitate course instruction between teachers and students. A community and portal system may provide students and teachers with tools for interacting such as discussion boards. A learning management system may provide management of electronic files e.g. electronic documents images audio video and web content that teachers and or students may create modify and share. All of these activities may be related to courses from source systems and or the integrated system.

Furthermore the integrated system may include an evaluation system which provides functionality for performing assessment of the effectiveness of an institution. Such functionality may be particularly useful in determining whether an institution should retain its accreditation. Alternatively the evaluation system may reside outside of the integrated system. For example the evaluation system may be provided by the same party as the integrated system or by a third party. An example of an evaluation system is disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2006 0259351 A1 published Nov. 16 2006 entitled Method and System for Assessment within a Multi Level Organization the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Due to the integration of courses from source systems to an integrated system the integrated system may collect grades and other learning records and or data from multiple source systems. Accordingly from the integrated system one may perform assessments of users courses departments and an institution regardless of their origin.

Consistent with embodiments of the present invention users e.g. students teachers and administrators of a source system and or integrated system may have one or more roles. As the term is used herein a role may indicate an access level of a user in a particular course or activity. For example a role of a user may indicate whether the user is a student teacher alumni or an administrator for a particular course or activity. An integrated system may use the roles of a user to determine what the user has access to in the context of a particular course or activity. When a course is integrated from a source system to an integrated system data specifying the role of the users who are associated with the course and each user s role within that course may be included in the data received by the integrated system. Accordingly roles may apply to the users in association with one or more courses that are provided by the source system and or the integrated system.

The role of a user may depend upon a particular context. For example a user may have a role of student in an advance biology course e.g. Biology 401 . That same user may have a different role in other courses. For example that user may be a teaching assistant for an introductory biology course e.g. Biology 101 . Thus in the introductory Biology course the user may have a role of teacher. Furthermore a user may not only have different roles depending upon different contexts e.g. such as a teacher in one course and a student in a different course but may also have multiple roles in the same context. For example a user might be both a student and a teaching assistant in the same course or a user might be both an alumni and a staff person at the same institution.

Systems and methods disclosed herein may provide access controls using role based access permissions for components of the integrated system and or software modules from one or more source systems or other third party systems. For example during integration of a course from a source system to an integrated system the integrated system may receive role data indicating user access to the course. That is the roles that are associated with a user may define access rights of that user. Returning to the prior example a user with a student role in Biology 401 may access course materials lectures and tests for the purposes of reading and taking the tests. That user may not however create and or edit course materials lectures and tests for Biology 401. However because the user has a role of teacher for Biology 101 that user may create and or edit course materials lectures and tests for Biology 101. Similarly any other users that have a role of teacher for Biology 101 may create and or edit course materials lectures and tests for Biology 101. One or more of those other users may also have a role of teacher for Biology 401 and therefore may create and or edit course materials lectures and tests for Biology 401. A user may have a different role in each course that the user is associated with and accordingly may have multiple roles in an institution. Furthermore the user may have a role for a course in the source system and a different or the same role for a course in the integrated system. For example access rights may be granted to users based on their role in association with a course or activity. A user may access resources in an integrated system and or other third party resources based on the user s role. For example a user that has a role of student in a course provided by a source system may also access other activities and resources e.g. a biology tutorial that are provided by or associated with the integrated system based on the user s role. Likewise a user s role in association with a course and a domain may be used to determine access rights within the integrated system and externally.

As the term is used herein an entity is any course user activity organization e.g. a student group program etc. A domain is defined by one or more characteristics that are associated with a set of entities e.g. users roles courses activities . The concept of a domain is flexible to accommodate any desired relationship. For example a domain can include a plurality of courses the users that are associated with each of the courses and the roles of each user in relationship to each course. Thus a domain may be used to establish relationships between entities e.g. users courses activities and include the role of each user in a course activity or other grouping. As another example a domain can include a plurality of student groups the users that are associated with each of the groups and the roles of each user in relationship to each group. Accordingly the same user may have multiple roles in one domain. Furthermore one or more administrators may be associated with a domain and may have one or more roles for the domain e.g. an administrator that can modify the domain and or the entities in the domain .

Consistent with disclosed embodiments a source identifier may identify a source system for data that is being integrated with the integrated system. The integrated system may use the source identifier for domain mapping. Accordingly a domain may be automatically created that aligns with a source identifier of a source system in order to maintain a relationship between a source and integrated system. The domain for a source system may include all or a subset of the courses users and roles of the users in that source system. When a domain is created the administrator of the source system data may become the administrator of the domain in the integrated system. Alternatively a new administrator may be assigned for the domain after the integration.

As an example a domain may be created for all biology courses. Some of the biology courses may be provided by a source system and some of the biology courses may be provided by the integrated system. Alternatively all of the biology courses may be provided by the source system or all of the biology courses may be provided by the integrated system. In the present example a domain is created for all biology courses two of which are provided by a source system an introductory level course and an intermediate level course and one of which that is provided by the integrated system an advanced level course . The domain may include data for the courses introductory intermediate and advanced and data for each user associated with each course i.e. the teachers and students . Furthermore the domain may include role data for each user that specifies the user s role in the context of a specific course. Some of the users may be associated with more than one course. For example the same user may teach two of the courses. That user may be assigned a role of teacher in the beginning level course and the intermediate level course for example. Moreover a user may be associated with more than one course but may have a different role in each of the courses as explained above.

Consistent with disclosed embodiments domains may be created for any characteristic that is associated with a set of entities. As discussed above a domain may be created for all courses of a particular subject e.g. biology . As another example a domain may be created for all freshman courses e.g. all courses at the freshman level . For such a domain the domain may include data for all freshman courses of all subjects along with the users of each course. Furthermore for each user the domain may include the role of the user as it relates to a particular course. Accordingly a user may appear in more than one domain. For example a user that has a role of a student in one of the courses in the biology domain and who is also a freshman may appear in other freshman courses that are included in the domain for freshman courses. Moreover a user s role in association with a course and or a domain may be used to determine access rights within the integrated system as well as to determine access rights to resources that are external to the integrated system.

Domains may be created for other characteristics such as for all student organizations at an institution. Such a domain may include all of the organizations their associated users and the roles of each user in the context of each organization. As another example a domain may be created for all activities that are targeted to commuter students. Such a domain may include all of the activities for commuters the users associated with those activities and the roles of the users in the context of each activity. As further examples domains may be created for other characteristics such as ages of users financial aid status of users housing locations of users housing status of users on campus or off campus etc.

Domains may also include other domains. For example a domain may be established for all introductory level biology courses another domain for all intermediate level biology courses and another domain for all advanced level biology courses. Accordingly the introductory level biology course domain may include all course sections of introductory biology along with the users that are associated with each course and the roles of each user in the context of each course. Similarly the intermediate level biology course domain may include all course sections of intermediate biology along with the users that are associated with each course and the roles of each user in the context of each course. In a similar respect the advanced level biology course domain may include all course sections of advanced biology along with the users that are associated with each course and the roles of each user in the context of each course. Some users may be included in multiple domains e.g. a user that is a teacher who teaches all course levels or a user that is a student in an advanced course and a teacher in a beginning level course . Furthermore a domain may be created for all biology courses at an institution which may thus include the three aforementioned domains i.e. introductory level courses intermediate level courses and advanced level courses .

A network not shown provides communications between the various devices in system over communication links such as integrated system source system and source system and terminals not shown executing browser software e.g. browser . In addition integrated system may access other legacy systems not shown via the network or may directly access legacy systems databases or other network applications Legacy systems may include any additional source systems or other third party systems that have communications with or may be accessed by users of integrated system . The network may be a shared public or private network may encompass a wide area or local area and may be implemented through any suitable combination of wired and or wireless communication networks. Furthermore the network may comprise a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN an intranet or the Internet.

Integrated system may comprise a web server an application server and a database . Although integrated system depicts web server application server and database as separate components these components may be combined. Any appropriate storage device may be substituted for database . Furthermore components of integrated system may distribute data for parallel processing by one or more additional servers not shown . Web server and application server may also be implemented in a distributed network. Alternatively web server and application server may be specially constructed for carrying out methods consistent with disclosed embodiments.

Web server may comprise a computer e.g. a personal computer network computer server or mainframe computer having one or more processors not shown that may be selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program. Web server may provide functionality for authenticating users of integrated system and transmitting content to users. Content may include streaming video audio text or image data including for example XML files HTML files etc. For example web server may host one or more computer programs for providing users access to a learning management system. Furthermore web server may provide content retrieved from database over the network to users.

Application server may comprise a computer e.g. a personal computer network computer server or mainframe computer having one or more processors not shown that may be selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program. Application server may run computer programs and enable applications to communicate with web server . For example application server may store one or more software modules for providing a learning management system and may enable applications to communicate with web server . Furthermore application server may access content stored in database and provide that content to web server for transmission to users.

Database may store data records for courses user records files educational materials etc. Furthermore although one database is shown in application server may interface with additional databases. Database may receive data from the network. Although shown as separate components in web server application server and database may be combined. Furthermore any one of web server application server and database may exchange data directly or via the network.

Browser may be executed by any kind of terminal such as any device that can communicate with integrated system . For example terminals capable of executing browser may be personal computers handheld devices or any other appropriate computing platform or device capable of exchanging data with the network. Terminals may each include a processor not shown and a memory not shown . Furthermore terminals may execute program modules that provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs for interacting with network resources e.g. generating browser and or accessing integrated system .

Source systems and may include web servers and respectively and databases and respectively. For example web server of source system may directly interface with user terminals not shown or may interface with integrated system over data link . Furthermore source system may store data for courses in database . Although not shown source systems and may each include an application server and accordingly be similar or identical in construction to integrated system . In one embodiment a course provided by source system which has been integrated into integrated system may execute through integrated system . In a similar fashion source system may store data e.g. lectures course materials etc. for courses in database and web server may directly interface with user terminals not shown or may interface with integrated system over data link .

Source systems and and integrated system are configured such that users e.g. students teachers administrators continue to use their existing learning systems. As a result users continue to use functionality for courses and experience educational materials in a familiar fashion. Visually users may be welcomed into integrated system and have access to courses provided by source system and or source system within for example a user interface that is generated by integrated system . For example data identifying courses as well as user data role data and or enrollment data may be integrated into integrated system . However software that provides the course e.g. lectures course materials etc. remains on source system and or source system and is not integrated into integrated system . User interfaces for managing an integration and allowing access to courses that have been integrated are discussed below in further detail in connection with . Accordingly integrated system may provide access to courses maintained on source system and or . Integrated system may further provide access to native courses that are stored in integrated system .

Furthermore in other embodiments data may be obtained from a source system for use by integrated system as needed or during an integration. Some data may continue to reside on the source system for example or may reside on both the source system and integrated system . Additionally in some embodiments integrated system may transmit or push data to a source system in order to for example provide updated information to the source system.

During an integration process data is received by integrated system from source system . Furthermore integrated system may store data in database . For example an application executing on for example application server may allow an administrator to configure an integration process. Subsequent to the integration the integrated course is accessible to users via integrated system as if the course is being provided by integrated system . However the actual course application for the course remains stored in source system . Accordingly changes made to the course at source system do not need to be provided to integrated system . Furthermore browser may be redirected to source system to obtain the course for inclusion in a frameset displayed on a user interface as discussed below in further detail.

Data may include user data course data and enrollment data . User data may include data pertaining to users of a course provided by a source system. For example user data may include username first name last name password gender birthday e mail address home phone number fax number mobile phone number street address city state ZIP code country. Course data may include data pertaining to a particular course being provided by source system . For example metadata for a course may indicate the course ID course name description instructor meeting times and or dates. Enrollment data may identify users enrolled in a particular course. For example enrollment data may specify the first and last names and usernames included in user data . Enrollment data may further include other information related to the user s enrollment in a course such as assignments and grades.

User data may also include role data for one or more of the users in the context of the course that is being integrated. As discussed above a role of a user may indicate whether the user is a student teacher alumni administrator or any other role for a particular course or activity. Integrated system may use the role of a user to determine user access in the context of the course that is being integrated. In other implementations a role may indicate user access in the context of an activity. For example a user with an administrator role for a particular domain may modify or remove a course from the domain in the integrated system .

As an example during an integration integrated system receives data from source system for an introductory level biology course. In this example data may include course data which identifies the introductory biology course e.g. metadata for the course name instructor meeting times and or dates . Enrollment data may identify users enrolled in the introductory biology course. User data may include information for users of the course e.g. data identifying teachers and students . Furthermore role data may indicate the role of the users in the introductory biology course. For example one of the users of the introductory biology course may have a role of student in the course. That same user may have a different role in other courses that are provided by the integrated system or in other courses that are provided by the same or other source systems. For example that same user may have a role of a teacher in other courses. Furthermore another user of the introductory biology course may have a role of a teacher in this course. Integrated system may use the role data of a user to determine user access in the introductory biology course integrated from source system . Moreover integrated system may use the role data of the user to determine access rights of the user to other resources tools that are provided by integrated system or any other system including third party systems which are external to integrated system . Thus a user with a student role in the introductory biology course may access course materials lectures and tests for the purposes of reading and taking the tests. That user may not however create and or edit course materials lectures and tests for this course. By contrast a user that has a role of teacher for the course may create and or edit course materials lectures and tests for the course. Moreover the user s role may determine the user s access rights in integrated system and or other third party resources. For example a user that has a role of student in the introductory biology course may access the course that is provided via source system . Furthermore that user based on the user s role as a student may also access a biology tutorial provided by integrated system .

During the integration integrated system may receive or create a source identifier that identifies source system . Integrated system may use the source identifier to create a domain for source system . For example the domain for source system may include data that represents all of the courses the users that are associated with each of the courses and the roles of each user in each of the courses. The administrator assigned to that domain in source system may become the administrator of the domain in integrated system . Alternatively a new administrator may be assigned for the domain once the domain has been integrated into integrated system . Domains may be created for courses and or activities related to source system as well as may be created for courses and or activities that are related to both source system and integrated system . The creation of domains after an integration is discussed below in further detail.

Moreover the data source key may be used to automatically create a domain for the source system. For example integrated system may create a domain for the source system in order to maintain a relationship between a source and integrated system. The domain may include all of the courses users and roles of the users in each course that is being integrated into integrated system . When a domain is created for a source system the administrator of the data in the source system may become the administrator of the domain in the integrated system. Alternatively a new administrator may be assigned for the domain after the integrated takes place.

The integrated system provides the ability to simultaneously view announcements calendar information and grades for example from multiple learning management systems in a single screen providing an integrated experience despite the diversity of the constituent systems.

By presenting the source system in a frame a user can access a source system using the original interface of the source system but also have available a sidebar on the display for ready access to information and features provided by the integrated system.

Furthermore any user who is enrolled in courses sections can access grades in a My Grades system tool from all of the courses sections that the user has access to. Any user can manage their personal information settings from a single point inside the integrated system e.g. through the My Features options . Priority settings such as Locale Privacy and Password can be changed inside integrated system and other settings will apply to a respective source system.

For example administrator users who can manage users are able to add modify and remove users. Access to this functionality may be controlled by domains as is described in detail below. Administrator users who can manage courses sections are able to access courses sections for both integrated system and source systems. Administrator users can access add modify and remove both integrated system and source system courses sections enrollments and users. As a result via integrated system administrators may access a consolidated course list and or course catalog that includes courses from both integrated system and one or more source systems. For example course metadata may include data that is translated into new uses in integrated system such as course categories that are integrated from source system or and that are used to generate the course catalog in integrated system .

In step integrated system may authenticate an administrator. For example the administrator may submit credentials e.g. a username and password for authentication through browser . Once authenticated browser may navigate to a user interface providing selectable options.

In step the administrator may select an option to create a new integration or integrate a new set of courses. For example from a user interface the administrator may select an option to create a new integration and browser may navigate to one or more user interfaces for selecting parameters of the integration e.g. user interface and or . User interface facilitates the integration process. Furthermore user interface may allow an administrator to specify an address such as a uniform resource locator URL of a source system from which a course is being integrated. User interface may allow an administrator to specify a data source key in order to identify data from a particular integration. The data source key may be any unique identifier. Accordingly data that is copied to integrated system may be identified as having originated from source system for example based on the data source key. Furthermore the data source key may be used to automatically create a domain for the source system. For example integrated system may create a domain that includes all of the courses users and roles of the users in each course that is being integrated into integrated system . Through user interface an administrator may set import settings such as indicating a type of learning system corresponding to a course maintained by a source system. Furthermore user interface may provide conflict resolution options.

In step integrated system may integrate course metadata from a source system e.g. source system or . As discussed in connection with during an integration process data for a course e.g. data may include user data course data and enrollment data . User data may include data pertaining to users of a course provided by the source system including role data for users that indicates a role of each user in the context of a particular course or activity. Course data may include data pertaining to a particular course being provided by source system . Enrollment data may identify users enrolled in a particular course.

In step integrated course metadata from the source system may be stored in database of integrated system . Furthermore database may associate the integrated course metadata with location information specifying the location of the course. Location information may include for example an Internet address such as a uniform resource locator URL . Accordingly course metadata e.g. data is integrated into integrated system .

In step integrated system may create access to the course in integrated system . For example integrated system may store in web server a file e.g. a document or a webpage that may be displayed in a portion of an interface e.g. a frame such as frame of a user interface that is generated by integrated system . A browser may be redirected to the source system e.g. source system or to obtain the course for inclusion in a page displayed on a user interface. Accordingly the browser may automatically access the source system and display the course.

In step integrated system may query source system . The query may include appropriate credentials identifying the user for authentication by source system . Furthermore the query may request an address e.g. URL for launching the course in browser .

In step integrated system may receive the address for the course from source system . Next in step integrated system may provide access to the course. For example integrated system may load in a portion of a display e.g. a frame generated by browser data that is received from the address. The data received from the address may include a course and associated educational materials. In step a user at browser may access the course via for example a frame displayed in a user interface generated by integrated system e.g. frame may display educational materials for Course One as shown in .

As also discussed above users may have different roles for different domains. For example a user may have an administrator role for a first domain e.g. a course and enrollments from source system but might not have an administrator role for another domain e.g. a course and enrollments from source system . Furthermore users may be included in a plurality of domains. Embodiments of the present invention may establish domains for an entire source system for a single course for a grouping of courses for a grouping of activities or for other groupings. For example domains may be based on departments a group of courses course level or groups of users e.g. a domain for all freshmen a domain for all students receiving financial aid etc. . If a domain is created that includes all of the courses from a particular source system an administrator can be automatically or manually set up to be the manager of that domain. The source system could represent an institution for example or multiple source systems may be integrated for use by one institution. As discussed above domains may be created for other characteristics and domains may also include other domains.

Referring now to in step integrated system may authenticate an administrator. For example the administrator may submit credentials e.g. a username and password for authentication through browser . Once authenticated browser may navigate to a user interface providing selectable options. The administrator may select an option to access create or edit domains. For example administrators who are domain administrators may manage domain defined subsets of courses regardless of whether those courses are provided by integrated system or source systems and .

In step integrated system may receive a selection of entities from the administrator for the domain. As an example a domain may be created for all biology courses two of which are provided by a source system an introductory level course and an intermediate level course and one of which that is provided by integrated system an advanced level course . The domain includes data for the courses introductory intermediate and advanced and data for each user associated with each course i.e. the teachers and students . Furthermore the domain includes role data for each user that specifies the user s role in the context of a specific course.

In step integrated system may create a query for the entities selected by the administrator. For example integrated system may access database and determine which courses are introductory biology courses. The courses may be provided by a source system and or may be native courses to integrated system . Integrated system may query for example database . Furthermore integrated system may retrieve metadata for all courses that are introductory biology along with associated metadata for the courses including the users associated with each of the courses and the roles of each of the users in each course.

Next in step integrated system may create a domain in database associating the metadata that was received from the query with the domain.

Administrators may also modify domains. Furthermore when students are no longer enrolled in a course any domain containing that course may be automatically updated. Further still integrated system may automatically create a domain in integrated system during the integration of a course from source system or . For example during integration of the course a domain may be established in integrated system for all students that are enrolled in a course provided by source system .

In step integrated system may identify two or more accounts that may be use by the same user. For example integrated system may via application server execute a tool for comparing usernames stored in database against each other. For example integrated system may launch the tool following an integration process in order to determine whether any usernames from the integration appear to already have existing accounts in integrated system .

In step integrated system may examine potential duplicates. For example the tool discussed above may implement a process to compare certain data associated with accounts having the same or similar usernames e.g. comparing social security numbers student ID numbers etc. . Alternatively an administrator of integrated system may perform a manual examination of potential duplicates.

In step integrated system may make a determination that at least two accounts pertain to the same individual. Alternatively an administrator of integrated system may make the determination. Furthermore in this step integrated system may send a notification e.g. email to the users of the accounts requesting confirmation that the accounts do in fact pertain to the same individual.

In step integrated system may merge the accounts. For example data for one account may be merged with data for another and the username for one of the accounts may be deactivated.

Although the above disclosure describes providing a bridge for integrating legacy source systems and with an integrated system to provide a consistent experience for administrative and end users regardless of where a given course is hosted further benefits can be obtained by exchanging a broader range of information via a well defined connector application programming interface API . Where the connector API is sufficiently broad it can ease and automate significant portions of the migration of users and courses from a legacy source system to the integrated system. As described in further detail below use of the connector API allows for a granular approach to migration providing for the migration and conversion of educational materials for native hosting on integrated system on a course by course basis while maintaining the benefits of integration described above.

As an alternative a single component not depicted could replace components and which exchanges data with source system side connector for some features while the single component directly accesses database for other features. Additionally although not depicted a component can perform multiplexing in which a single component serves to integrate multiple source systems. Typically standardized remote procedure calls RPC such as SOAP REST or RMI are used for exchanging data. However the system is protocol agnostic. For direct database access there are many well known interfaces such as ODBC and JDBC.

The following are examples of functions and features which may be provided via the connector API . First a set of functions relates to user authentication enabling the delegation of authentication such as username password handling between the integrated and source systems. These functions include for example credential handling for login and logout and session management such as managing cookies that authenticate a web browser session. Second a set of functions allows integrated system to obtain navigation information to particular educational materials on source system . For example integrated system can obtain specific URLs that direct an end user to the desired educational materials. Such functions facilitate access to course management course home course edit course add and course enrollment user management user add user edit change password edit personal information user course grades and user portfolio user credential management change password handle forgotten password and URL rewriting. Third a set of functions allows for exchanging portlet data with the source system such as course listing announcements calendar grades and external links. Fourth a set of functions allows for creating and deleting announcements on a target system. In one example such announcements are employed to relay information regarding outcomes system instrument deployments which is used for course and curriculum assessment. Fifth a set of functions allows for discovering which portions of the connector API such as those discussed above are implemented by a particular component. For example these functions can allow the integrated system to determine whether various administration functions or user and course conversion functions that aid migration of educational materials and data are available. Sixth a set of functions provides interfaces for managing the state of integrated data for example user data and orchestrating course conversion for example in the form of packaging educational materials from the source system and importing them to the integrated system . The above functions are merely illustrative of the functions which may be provided by the connector API and are not intended to be an exclusive list.

The connector API provides for development and use of components adapted to particular products or user environments. Such components may for example be developed and provided by a learning environment product vendor or a system administrator familiar with a given institution. Depending on how such components are provided existing components may also be modified so as to be tailored to the configuration of a particular legacy source system. Multiple and diverse legacy source systems can be integrated with integrated system by use of corresponding components that enable data interchange with the legacy source systems.

Although the connector API is defined to receive requests for the interchange of a wide variety of data the connector API is designed to be functionally scalable. This means that benefits of the present invention may be obtained using a component that only implements a subset of the connector API . Of course a more complete implementation of the connector API will enable a greater degree of integration between the systems. The degree to which a component has implemented the connector API is discoverable by the integrated system . For example a specific method call might be defined by the connector API which returns a bitmap indicating which methods are implemented by the component. As another example methods which are not fully implemented may provide a return value indicating they are unimplemented by the given component. Based on the connector API features detected as implemented by a component integrated system will interact with the source system accordingly.

Also integrated system provides for granular migration of educational materials from a legacy source system to integrated system . Instead of needing to migrate all of the courses and student information system data wholesale between systems users can consider hosting educational materials natively on integrated system on a course by course basis. However education data including student information data may continue to be hosted by the source system reducing the scale of the effort making it reasonable to consider moving educational materials on a course by course basis. This not only eases the transition of hosting content natively on integrated system but also facilitates ongoing operation of a diverse and integrated production environment comprising multiple types of learning management systems. Administrators and users are free to selectively move educational materials over to the integrated system. For example only a few courses within a department may be prepared at a given time to migrate to integrated system or only a single department comprising a number of courses from among many departments hosted on a source system .

The flexibility of the connector API enables a wide range of models for integrating an integrated system with legacy source systems and . For example the following models of operation are supported 

As would be recognized by those skilled in the art in view of this disclosure many other configurations are possible.

The disclosed course by course migration enabled by the connector API helps eliminate a substantial barrier to migrating education data and materials between learning management systems by decoupling the hosting of educational materials and the hosting of education data such as student information system data. In conventional systems as noted previously educational materials and education data have been closely coupled. In such conventional systems migration has required moving both educational materials and education datawholesale. This increases the risks associated with migration as in many instances it involves terabytes worth of data which if not migrated successfully puts the operation of the entire production system at risk. Additionally there is the risk of incompatibility for some educational materials as they are migrated to a new system. Further the process of a full migration is very resource and time consuming. In contrast the disclosed integrated system via the connector API is able to migrate educational materials for individual courses for native hosting but allow source system to continue managing education data such as student information system data rather than require the migration of such data to integrated system . Integrated system avoids conventional up front database migration and eases the effort of migration once it is performed.

Additionally by allowing legacy source systems in an existing production environment to run as is an integrated system can be readily added to the production environment for limited testing and evaluation of the features offered by the integrated system. This facilitates evaluation by institutions considering use of the integrated system.

In some conventional applications translation modules may be developed to perform a unidirectional transfer of data with the intent of establishing a new and separate production system to which all of the legacy data is simply ported over. However according to embodiments of the present invention bi directional data transfer provided by components not only allows this fresh install option but further allows for side by side operation of legacy source and integrated systems in a heterogeneous production environment while maintaining data consistency particularly for user data among the various systems. In some production environments legacy source systems may be maintained despite the migration of most educational materials for native hosting on an integrated system to incorporate educational materials which at least for the short term is most readily provided and or maintained by a legacy source system.

Further by providing a modular component based architecture for integrating with legacy source systems users can employ vendor or third party modules to translate between the two systems. This reduces the scope of an integration or migration effort as it avoids a major difficulty presented in translating data between the systems. Also different components can provide different methods of converting educational materials. For example if a user is disappointed in the way a first component converted a test the user might opt to use a second component which may yield a more satisfactory result.

Command line or GUI tools may be provided to an administrator to facilitate migrating users and courses to be natively hosted by the integrated system.

In some embodiments critical administrative data will be replicated and synchronized between integrated system and legacy source system via connector API . For example such data might include administrative course information administrative user information enrollments lists and portal content.

Source systems and may include learning management systems provided by vendors other than the vendor providing integrated system . Alternatively source system for example might be a different typically older version of the integrated system product. In either case the connector API provides a bridge that facilitates operating in a co production environment in which varying types of systems are integrated and eventually migrating education data and materials to integrated system to realize reduced administration costs and exploit improved features offered by integrated system . Thus the connector API serves as a bridge for moving to an entirely different learning management system vendor providing an upgrade path within a single vendor s line of learning management system products or allows for a diverse set of learning management systems to be integrated in a manner that eases the process of administration and provides the benefits of integration to end users.

The integrated system provides more than a simple redirect to the source system as seen with conventional systems but instead offers an experience that integrates diverse systems within a single environment in a cohesive manner that also allows users to exploit additional features provided by integrated system . Such features include single sign on allowing users from different systems to collaborate through online groups and other organizations provided by the integrated system improved management tools and tools for assessing the effectiveness of classes and curricula. Of benefit for administrators is being able to retain existing familiar interfaces but having the option to exercise administrative tools provided by integrated system .

Additionally a more consistent experience can be provided to users by the use of visual themes. The visual themes can be employed to provide a particular visual branding based on a role for the user. For example different themes may be presented by integrated system based on whether a user is a prospective student currently enrolled student or alumnus. Additionally visual themes can be employed to offer the look and feel of a different system. For example where a course has been migrated from legacy source system to integrated system a visual theme may be employed to provide continuity in look and feel for students and teachers while leveraging administrative benefits obtained by hosting the course natively on the integrated system . This can minimize adverse end user impact by retaining familiar interfaces. In another example in which most of the classes are hosted on a legacy source system visual themes can be employed for courses natively hosted on integrated system in order to provide a consistent user experience across the curriculum. Data provided by the connector API when related features are implemented by a component provides the information required to perform branding relating to education data and materials hosted by legacy source system . Additionally integrated system may store an indication as to whether a legacy or native visual theme should be applied in a given context.

Also the component interface can be used to pass activity data from a legacy source system to integrated system . Accordingly integrated system becomes a point of aggregation for profiling information which allows users such as administrators and teachers to better understand utilization of the systems. Similarly outcomes data or systematic data regarding student learning results can also be passed to integrated system to facilitate campus wide performance assessment efforts.

The foregoing description has been presented for purposes of illustration. It is not exhaustive and does not limit the invention to the precise forms or embodiments disclosed. Modifications and adaptations of the embodiments will be apparent from consideration of the specification and practice of the disclosed embodiments. Although the steps of the above methods are indicated in a particular order one of ordinary skill will appreciate that order of the steps may be changed and in some implementations some steps may be optional. Furthermore the described implementations include software but systems and methods consistent with the present invention may be implemented as a combination of hardware and software or in hardware alone. Examples of hardware include computing or processing systems including personal computers servers laptops mainframes micro processors and the like. Additionally embodiments may use different types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices for example hard disks floppy disks or CD ROM the Internet or other propagation medium or other forms of RAM or ROM.

Computer programs based on the written description and methods of this specification are within the skill of a software developer. The various programs or program modules can be created using a variety of programming techniques. For example program sections or program modules can be designed in or by means of Java C HTML XML or HTML with included Java applets. One or more of such software sections or modules can be integrated into a computer system or existing e mail or browser software.

Moreover while illustrative embodiments have been described herein the scope of the invention includes any and all embodiments having equivalent elements modifications omissions combinations e.g. of aspects across various embodiments adaptations and or alterations based on the present disclosure. The limitations in the claims are to be interpreted broadly based on the language employed in the claims and not limited to examples described in the present specification or during the prosecution of the application which examples are to be construed as non exclusive. Further the steps of the disclosed methods may be modified in any manner including by reordering steps and or inserting or deleting steps. It is intended therefore that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims and their full scope of equivalents.

