---

title: Height adjustment mechanism for armrest
abstract: An armrest adjustment mechanism is disclosed. The armrest adjustment mechanism includes a sleeve, a tubular member, a slider, a long plate, a fixing plate, a guiding plate, a retaining block, a lower base, an armrest pad and a lever arm. The armrest adjustment mechanism features on that: an insertion hole is disposed on upper end of the long plate while the lever arm is arranged inside a space between the armrest pad and the lower base. The lever arm inserts through the insertion hole on top end of the long plate so that the long plate hangs on the lever arm, working as a load. One end of the lever arm is arranged on one side of the lower base, working as the fulcrum while the other end of the lever arm is arranged on an opposite side of the lower base correspondingly. A push member projecting from a corresponding opening of the lower base is arranged on the other end of the lever arm, working as the effort. Thus the push member is moved upwards by being pushed by the user from the outside or elastically turned back to the original position so as to make the lever arm (like a Type-2 lever) drives the long plate to move upwards synchronously. Therefore, the adjustment of the armrest height is achieved.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07744159&OS=07744159&RS=07744159
owner: Isotech Products Incorporated
number: 07744159
owner_city: Hsin Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20080211
---
The present invention relates to a height adjustment mechanism especially to a height adjustment mechanism for an armrest that have a lever arm disposed between an armrest pad and a lower base and working like a Type 2 Class two lever for adjusting height of the armrest by pushing one end of the lever arm.

There are various designs of the armrest height adjustment mechanism. The inventor of the present invention has invented an armrest height adjustment device and obtained U.S. Pat. No. 6 336 680 HEIGHT ADJUSTMENT MECHANISM FOR ARMREST as shown in . The height adjustment mechanism for an armrest includes a sleeve a tubular member a slider a long plate a fixing plate a guiding plate and a retaining block . While adjusting height of the armrest by pulling up a handle manually the long plate is moved upwards elastically the spring is extended simultaneously so that a projection moves upwards and leans against a projection of the guiding plate and a lower end of the guiding plate moves outwards and leaves original position. Thus the retaining block is released from a locating hole as shown in and now the slider moves freely inside a sliding slot for adjusting the height. After the armrest being adjusted to a new height the handle is released so that the long plate turns back to the original position by elasticity of the spring and the projection moves downwards to leave the projection of the guiding plate . Thus the retaining block automatically turns back by elasticity of the guiding plate and locks into a new locating hole to finish the height adjustment. However the pulling up of the handle mentioned above requires more effort and is inconvenient for the user. Moreover the handle on a top end of the long plate projecting outwards has negative effects on appearance of the lower base of the armrest.

Therefore it is a primary object of the present invention to provide an armrest adjustment mechanism. The armrest adjustment mechanism includes a sleeve a tubular member a slider a long plate a fixing plate a guiding plate a retaining block a lower base an armrest pad and a lever arm. The armrest adjustment mechanism features on that an insertion hole is disposed on upper end of the long plate while the lever arm is arranged between the armrest pad and the lower base. The lever arm inserts through the insertion hole on top end of the long plate so that the long plate hangs on the lever arm working as the load. One end of the lever arm is arranged on one side of the lower base working as the fulcrum while the other end of the lever arm is arranged on an opposite side of the lower base correspondingly. A push member projecting from a corresponding opening of the lower base is arranged on the other end of the lever arm working as the effort. Thus the push member is moved upwards by being pushed by the user from the outside or elastically turned back to the original position so as to work like a Type 2 lever. By pushing the push member to move upwards the lever arm is driven to make the long plate move upwards synchronously. Therefore the adjustment of the armrest height is achieved by manual operation of the long plate. Moreover the height adjustment mechanism of the armrest is simplified and convenience of use is enhanced.

The present invention is based on the prior art U.S. Pat. No. 6 336 680 mentioned above mentioned. The present invention includes a sleeve a tubular member a slider a long plate a fixing plate a guiding plate and a retaining block . The function and assembling of the present invention are similar to those of the prior art while there are changes in appearance angles length and ratio.

The sleeve is fastened on a base that is secured on the bottom of a chair. A tubular member is fixed inside top end of the sleeve . The tubular member can be either an integrated member as shown in or formed by two halves as shown in . A sliding slot is arranged on inside of the tubular member . A plurality of equal distant parallel locating holes is arranged on inner surface of the sliding slot as shown in . The slider is inserted in the sliding slot while a concave hole is located at the middle part of the slider . The top of the slider is connected with an armrest frame. The armrest frame is designed into a lower base and is assembled with an armrest pad to be a complete armrest as shown in . Moreover refer to one side of the slider in this embodiment this is the side facing the chair is disposed with a long plate while an insertion hole is arranged on top of the long plate instead of the handle on the prior art. A lug on the long plate is disposed under the insertion hole for being hooked with a top of an extension spring . A vertical long hole on the long plate is arranged under the lug and a beveled projection is under the vertical long hole . Inserting through the vertical long hole corresponding to a projecting hole of the slider a fastening screw secures the long plate with the fixing plate and the guiding plate and then being fixed on the projecting hole of the slider . By top and bottom ends of the vertical long hole working as stoppers the long plate slides along with the concave hole of the slider . The relative position of the slider to the fixing plate as well as the guiding plate is fixed. Compared with the fixed slider the fixing plate and the guiding plate the long plate is moveable. A lug is disposed on the fixing plate for being hooked with a lower end of the spring so that after being pulled upwards and released the long plate automatically turns back to the original position by elasticity of the spring . Furthermore a projection beveled opposite to the beveled projection is arranged on top of the guiding plate while a horizontal retaining block is disposed on bottom of the guiding plate . The guiding plate is assembled with the retaining block by inserting the bottom end of the guiding plate into a mounting slot on rear end of the retaining block as shown in . A front end of the retaining block inserts horizontally through an insertion slot of the slider and assembles into the locating hole on inner surface of the sliding slot .

In accordance with above structure refer to before adjusting the long plate the beveled projection on the long plate doesn t move upwards so that it doesn t contact with the projection of the guiding plate . Thus the lower end of the guiding plate keeps original status standing vertically while the retaining block still locks in the locating hole . While adjusting height of the armrest refer to the long plate is moved upwards elastically and the extension spring extends simultaneously so that the projection contacts with and against the projection of the guiding plate . And the lower end of the guiding plate moves outwards leaving original position as shown in . Thus the retaining block is released from the locating hole . Now the slider moving together with the lower base as well as the armrest pad moves upwards and downwards freely inside the sliding slot for height adjustment and there is no stopping points. After the armrest armrest pad being adjusted to another height the long plate is released and it turns back to the original position by the elasticity of the spring . Then the projection leaves the projection of the guiding plate while the retaining block also turns back near the original position by elasticity of the guiding plate and locks in a new locating hole . The adjustment of the armrest is finished. The height of the armrest or armrest pad is adjusted by upward movement of the long plate .

The present invention features on that an insertion hole is disposed on upper end of the long plate to replace the handle projecting outside from an upper end of a long plate of a prior rat as shown in . Moreover refer from to a lever arm is arranged inside the lower base between the armrest pad and the lower base . The lever arm can be one element made by plastic injection and it inserts through the insertion hole of the long plate so that the long plate hangs on a middle part of the lever arm working as the load. A rear end an inner end in this embodiment of the lever arm is arranged one side the inner side of the lower base working as the fulcrum. The one side the inner side of the lower base is designed as a slot as shown in so that the rear end the inner end of the lever arm is pivoted inside the slot stably. The other end the outer end is arranged on an opposite side the outer side of the lower base correspondingly. A push member extending from the outer end and projecting from a corresponding opening of the lower base works as an effort. Therefore the lever arm becomes a Type 2 lever that the load is at the point between the effort and the fulcrum.

In accordance with the structure mentioned above the push member is moved upwards by being pushed by the user from the outside the bottom of the armrest pad so that the lever arm working like a Type 2 lever drives the long plate to move upwards synchronously as shown in . Thus by operation of the long plate that moves upwards the adjustment of the armrest is achieved. Therefore the height adjustment mechanism of the armrest is simplified and convenience of use is enhanced.

Additional advantages and modifications will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Therefore the invention in its broader aspects is not limited to the specific details and representative devices shown and described herein. Accordingly various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the general inventive concept as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

