---

title: Systems and methods of check re-presentment deterrent
abstract: A user or a device may separate a check into two or more portions prior to generating a digital image of the check for remote deposit of the check. The user or a device may separate the check by cutting or tearing the check. After separating the check into the portions, the user may generate a digital image of the portions of the check using a scanner for example. The digital image may be transmitted to an institution for deposit of the check. The institution may retrieve the images of the portions of the check and generate an image of the check based on the portions, by combining the images of the portions for example. The image of the check that may be generated based on the images of the portions may be processed for deposit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08422758&OS=08422758&RS=08422758
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08422758
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080902
---
This application is related by subject matter to that disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications the entirety of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 202 515 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 202 749 each filed on even date and each entitled Systems And Methods Of Check Re Presentment Deterrent. 

Currently a user may deposit a check in a financial services institution either electronically using scanning and imaging techniques or physically by presenting the check at the financial services institution. Fraud occurs when a user presents the same check twice for deposit e.g. once electronically and once physically twice electronically etc. . This may be referred to as check re presentment.

Conventional techniques used to detect a re presented or twice deposited check rely on matching a deposit amount entered by the user when electronically depositing a check and a deposit amount obtained through character recognition technologies for a physically deposited check. Additional techniques compare magnetic ink character recognition MICR lines and or account numbers. It is difficult to detect a check that is re presented by a user. Such fraud may present a liability for the financial services institution.

A user or a device may separate a check into two or more portions prior to generating a digital image of the check for remote deposit of the check. The user or a device may separate the check by cutting or tearing the check. After separating the check into the portions the user may generate a digital image of the portions of the check using a scanner for example. The digital image may be transmitted to an institution for deposit of the check. The institution may retrieve the images of the portions of the check and generate an image of the check based on the portions by combining the images of the portions for example. The image of the check that may be generated based on the images of the portions may be processed for deposit.

In an implementation rather than combining the images of the portions to generate an image of the check the institution may insert retrieved financial information from the portions into a check template for subsequent processing. In such an implementation the portions of the images though provided to the institution are not combined by the institution.

In an implementation rather than separating the check into two or more portions the user may punch one or more holes or other marks in the check. The user may generate a digital image of the check having the hole s or mark s and transmit the digital image to an institution for deposit of the check. The institution may identify the hole s or mark s and process the check for deposit.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The user may be an individual or entity who owns an account that may be held at the institution . The account may be any type of account for depositing funds such as a savings account a checking account a brokerage account and the like. Although only one account is shown it is contemplated that the user may have any number of accounts held at the institution . The user may deposit a check in the account at the institution either electronically or physically. The institution may process and or clear the check .

The user may communicate with the institution by way of a communications network such as an intranet the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a public switched telephone network PSTN a cellular network a voice over Internet protocol VoIP network and the like. The user may also communicate with the institution by phone email instant messaging text messaging facsimile postal mail and the like.

As described further herein the user may remotely electronically deposit the check at the institution . It is noted that although examples and implementations described herein may refer to a check the techniques and systems described herein are contemplated for and may be used for deposit of any negotiable instrument such as a money order a cashier s check a check guaranteed by a bank or the like.

The user may access the institution by opening a communication pathway via the communications network using a user computing device . There may be several ways in which the communication pathway may be established including but not limited to an Internet connection via a website of the institution . The user may access the website and log into the website using credentials such as but not limited to a username and a password.

The user may use a scanner to generate a digital image of the check . The digital image may be used to create a digital image file that may be sent to the institution and used by the institution to process a deposit of the check . In an implementation the digital image file may be augmented by secondary data which may be information relating to the deposit of the check such as an account number and a deposit amount for example.

In an implementation the user may separate the check into two or more portions prior to generating a digital image of the check for remote electronic deposit of the check . The user may separate the check by cutting or tearing the check for example. In an implementation the check may be cut or torn along the longitudinal axis. The check may be cut or torn so as to avoid or otherwise not affect the magnetic ink character recognition MICR number e.g. the MICR number will be completely on one portion and a cut or tear will not be made through the MICR number . In an implementation a device may receive the check and may perform the separating e.g. by cutting or tearing pursuant to receiving instructions from the user or the user computing device . Such a device may be integrated into the user computing device the scanner or may be separate therefrom.

After separating the check into two or more portions the user may generate a digital image of the portions using the scanner for example. The portions of the check may be positioned on the scanner with space left between the portions . For example after endorsing the check and separating the check into portions the user may use a device such as the scanner and or the user computing device for example to convert the portions of the check into a digital image file by making a digital image of the front sides and or back sides of the portions of the check and storing the digital image s in a digital image file .

The digital image of the portions may be transmitted to the institution as a digital image file . The user may send the digital image file and any secondary data to the institution along with a request to deposit the check into an account such as the account . The institution may process the deposit request according to the digital image file and any secondary data. Thus as described further herein the institution may process the digital image file comprising the images of the portions of the check for deposit.

The institution may retrieve the images of the portions of the check from the digital image file and generate an image of the check based on the portions by combining the images of the portions to create an image of the check . The image of the check that may be generated based on the images of the portions may be processed for deposit. Any image processing technology may be used to retrieve the images of the portions of the check from the digital image file and combine the portions into an image of the check that may be processed for deposit. In an implementation certain points or features e.g. MICR number sign signature line courtesy amount line legal amount line etc. of the check may be identified and used in lining up or otherwise arranging the portions of the check as they are combined into an image. It is contemplated that any points coordinates features or regions of interest on a negotiable instrument may be used with the techniques described herein. Alternatively or additionally edge detection may be used to identify the edges of the portions and align the portions for combination into an image of the check . Any known edge detection technique may be used.

Upon receipt and processing of the digital image file and approval of the check generated therefrom the institution may credit the funds of the check to the account . It will be appreciated that the examples herein are for purposes of illustration and explanation only and that an embodiment is not limited to such examples.

In an implementation the user may attach the digital image file to an email and send the digital image file to the institution using the same device used to make the digital image of the portions of the check and or convert the portions of the check into the digital image file or another computing device. However any technique for sending a digital image file to the institution may be used such as providing a digital image file from storage to a website associated with the institution .

The user computing device may be integral with the device used to make the digital image and or the digital image file or separate from the device used to make the digital image and or the digital image file . An example user computing device is described with respect to . It is contemplated that any device that is capable of generating a digital image may be used to make a digital image of the portions of the check which may be sent to the institution as a digital image file . Additional devices that may be used in the generation and or transmission of a digital image file include a digital camera a photocopier a fax machine and the like for example.

The institution may receive a digital image file representing the portions of the check and may use any known image processing software or other application s to obtain the relevant data of the check from the digital image file . The institution may determine whether the financial information associated with the check may be valid.

For example the institution may include any combination of systems and sub systems such as electronic devices including but not limited to computers servers databases or the like. The electronic devices may include any combination of hardware components such as processors databases storage drives registers cache random access memory RAM chips data buses or the like and or software components such as operating systems database management applications or the like. According to an embodiment the electronic devices may include a network based server that may process the financial information and may receive the digital image file from the user .

The electronic devices may receive the digital image file and may perform an initial analysis on the quality of the image of the portions of the check in the digital image file the readability of the data contained therein or the like. For example the electronic devices may determine whether the portions may be retrieved and combined and whether the amount payable and other information may be readable such that it may be obtained and processed by the institution to credit the account associated with the user .

Because the check is separated into two or more portions by the user it is more difficult for the user to re present the check for deposit. Also the institution may more easily detect a re presentment. Thus the user may be deterred from re presenting the check . Although an institution may take a check that is separated into multiple portions it may become questionable and initiate a warning to the institution to more carefully scrutinize the check and the deposit. This may also act as a deterrent to re presentment. In an implementation the check may be considered to be destroyed before being scanned by the user and image processing may be used by the institution to combine the portions of the check for subsequent processing and deposit.

In an implementation the institution system may use the image processor to process the digital image file comprising the portions of the check received from the user and to generate a digital image also referred to herein as an image of the check that may be used by the institution in the processing and or clearance of the check . The image processor may process multiple frames of the image if the image is comprised of multiple frames.

For example after receiving the digital image file of the check the image processor may retrieve the images of the portions of the check and generate an image of the check by identifying and isolating the portions and combining the portions into an image that may be processed for deposit. The image processor may use any known image processing software or other application s to obtain the portions and any relevant data of the check from the digital image file .

The image processor has access to data files and documents pertaining to the user as well as any other data files and documents that are internal or external to the institution system that may be useful in processing the digital image file and or the data contained therein.

The institution system has the ability to retrieve information from one or more data sources via the data source access engine . Data pertaining to the user and or the user account and or processing and clearing of a check may be retrieved from data source s and or external data sources. The retrieved data may be stored centrally perhaps in storage . Other information may be provided to the institution system from the user and or the representative .

Data source s may contain data metadata email files and or documents that the institution system maintains pertaining to the user such as personal data such as name physical address email address etc. and financial data such as credit card numbers and checking account numbers. Such data may be useful for processing the digital image file comprising portions of the check as described herein. Additionally or alternatively the institution system may access this information when processing or clearing a check.

The representative computing device may provide access to a system which is coupled to the institution system . A system may be configured to format and transmit a graphical user interface to the representative and through the graphical user interface provide the representative the ability to interact with information that may be maintained requested and or provided by the institution system . As mentioned above the institution system may provide a unified graphical presentation output. In an implementation the unified graphical presentation is combined with other materials and transmitted to the representative .

A user access system may be implemented as a web server in an implementation. The user access system through the use of any suitable interactive web technology provides an interactive experience to the user and or the representative through which access to check processing and clearing data and status and related data can be accomplished. Any technology that provides interactivity through a web browser is considered to be within the scope of the present discussion and may include without limitation Hyper Text Mark Up Language HTML Dynamic HTML DHTML JavaScript and Ajax.

The institution system may comprise one or more computing devices . The computing device s may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules . The computing device s including processor s storage and software modules may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein.

Examples of software modules may include modules that may be used in conjunction with receiving and processing a digital image file comprising portions of the check generating an image of the check based on the portions retrieving data from the digital image file generating web page content for display and receiving instructions from the representative or the user for example. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

At the user may open a communication pathway with an institution that may be associated with an account for depositing funds by logging into a website of the institution for example. There may be several ways in which a communication pathway may be established including but not limited to an Internet connection via a website of the institution. The user may access the website and log into the website using credentials such as but not limited to a username and a password.

At the user may send a request to deposit the check and may select an account in which to deposit the check. In an implementation the user may select a deposit check option provided on the website and may enter details such as check amount date the account the check funds should be deposited in comments etc.

At the user may separate the check into two or more portions e.g. by cutting or tearing the check. In an implementation the institution may provide the user with instructions regarding the separation of the check such as where to cut or tear the check e.g. along the longitudinal axis so as to avoid or not affect the MICR number etc. . In an implementation the check may comprise a pre printed line as a guide along which the user may cut or tear the check.

At a digital image file of the portions of the check may be created. There may be several ways in which to create a digital image file of the portions of the check including but not limited to a scanner a digital camera and or a personal computer PC . In an implementation the user may scan or otherwise create a digital image file comprising the front side of each of the portions of the check and the back side of each of the portions of the check.

In an implementation the user may use a template e.g. provided by the institution to arrange the portions of the check for scanning. In this manner the image of the portions in the digital image file may comprise the portions in a predetermined position or arrangement that may be easier for the institution to identify and or process.

Alternatively the user may insert the portions of the check into a holder e.g. provided by the institution . The portions may be inserted in the holder in a predetermined position or manner. For example the portions of the check or features of the portions of the check such as one or more corners of the check the signature line the MICR line etc. may be aligned with respect to one or more markings or indicators on the holder. It is contemplated that different holders may be used for the front side portions of the check and for the back side portions of the check. The positioning or alignment may allow for more efficient processing of the check by the institution.

The digital image file may be sent to the institution for processing at . The digital image file may be sent using various means including but not limited to an Internet connection via the website or a cellular transmission. Additionally the digital image file may be augmented by secondary data which may be information relating to the check such as an account number a deposit amount or a routing number associated with the check and or relating to the account for depositing funds such as the account number and or the name on the account. The secondary data may be provided to the institution via an image file an email a facsimile instant message text message or selection via a website associated with the institution e.g. after the user opens a communication pathway with the institution before or after the user sends the digital image file of the portions of the check or other negotiable instrument to the institution etc. for example.

At the institution may receive the digital image file of the portions of the endorsed check along with financial information pertaining to the account for depositing funds and any secondary data in an implementation and may process the digital image file. Processing of the digital image file may include retrieving the portions of the check combining the portions to generate an image of the check to be deposited and or retrieving financial information regarding the check. Any known image processing technology may be used such as edge detection filtering to remove imagery except the portions of the check in the received digital image file image sharpening and technologies to distinguish between the front and the back sides of the check. The institution may identify and or remove at least a portion of data that is extraneous to the check such as background and or holder data. The holder or markings or indicators on the holder may be used in the identification of data that is extraneous to the check and which may be removed by the institution.

In an implementation the institution may determine that there are multiple user accounts in which to deposit the check. The accounts may be the same type of account such as a checking account or different types of accounts such as checking savings or investment accounts. The user may make a selection among a list of accounts in which to deposit the check. The selection may be transmitted to the institution which may process the deposit request the secondary data if any and the selected account.

At the institution may determine whether the financial information received from the digital image file may be readable and valid. Retrieved information may include the amount payable to the user the account associated with the user to deposit funds an account associated with a payor to debit funds and an institution associated with the payor and or the user. For example the institution may include electronic devices such as computers servers databases or the like that may be in communication with each other. The electronic devices may receive an electronic data representation and may perform an initial analysis on the quality of the data representation the readability of the data representation or the like. For example the electronic devices may determine whether the account number amount payable or the like may be readable such that they may be parsed and processed by the institution to credit an account associated with the user and debit an account associated with the payor. In an implementation the institution may check that that the resolution of the image meets at least a predetermined threshold such as 200 dots per inch dpi 400 dpi 500 dpi etc.

In an implementation after retrieving the financial information from the check in an electronic data representation form the institution may determine whether the financial information such as the amount payable to the user the account associated with the user to deposit funds an account associated with a payor to debit funds and an institution associated with the payor etc. may be valid.

At if the financial information is determined to be valid it may be determined at if more information is needed from the user before depositing the check. Such information may include data from another side of the check e.g. the back of the check the front of the check or some other information . If no additional information is needed at the electronic data representation may be processed by the institution at thereby depositing the check in the user s account. The user may receive a notice via email facsimile instant message or mail for example that the check has been deposited into the appropriate account selected by the user.

In an implementation at the institution may process the electronic data representation of the check. For example the institution may credit the funds to an account associated with the user if the financial information is valid. The credit may be a provisional credit enabling the user to access the funds while the check is being cleared. A provisional credit may be voided if the bank determines that the transaction is erroneous and or fraudulent. Additionally to credit funds to the account the bank may generate an Automated Clearinghouse ACH debit entry substitute check and or electronic image. ACH transactions typically include payment instructions to debit and or credit an account. Banks often employ ACH service providers to settle ACH transactions. Examples of ACH service providers include regional branches of the Federal Reserve and the Electronic Payments Network EPN .

The ACH service provider may process the debit entry by identifying the account and bank from which the check may be drawn. The bank from which the check is drawn i.e. the payor s bank may be referred to as a receiving depository financial institution RDFI . If the payor s bank verifies the transaction the ACH service provider may settle the transaction by debiting the payor s bank and crediting the user s bank. The payor s bank may then debit the payor s account.

If more information is needed from the user before depositing the check as determined at the user may be advised at and additional information may be requested from the user. The user may be advised by an email a web message an instant message a text message or the like transmitted from the institution to the user. In an implementation audio or video feedback may be provided to the user providing status information and or requesting additional information. The user may send the requested additional information at . In an implementation processing may continue at .

If the financial information is determined to be invalid at then the user may be advised at . For example the institution may transmit an email a web message an instant message a text message or the like to the user indicating that the financial information associated with the electronic data representation may be invalid. In an implementation audio or video feedback may be provided to the user about image quality and may direct the user on what they may do to provide a good image of the portions of the check or other negotiable instrument for deposit.

The user may determine how to proceed by selecting an option on the message replying to the email or the like. In an implementation if the financial information is held to be invalid instructions on how the user would like to proceed may be requested from the user such as whether the user would like to try the electronic deposit again or whether the user would like assistance from a representative for example. The institution may also provide additional options to the user on how to redeem the check such as mailing the check to the institution or the like. The user may indicate how they would like to proceed. Thus in an implementation the user may try generating a digital image file of portions of the check again and sending it to the institution again e.g. processing may continue at and or may be transferred to a representative of the institution for assistance.

If the user would like assistance the financial information may be transferred to a representative for further review. The representative such as a customer service representative a bank teller that may be located at a branch a virtual bank teller that may be located remotely via an electronic device or the like may review the financial information associated with the electronic data representation to determine whether to allow the electronic data representation to be processed by the institution. For example the initial analysis may require a certain quality requirement a certain readability requirement or the like thus leading to a high failure rate even though the electronic data representation may otherwise be valid. Thus the representative may review the electronic data representation to determine whether the financial information may be readable and or of a good enough quality to be processed. If so the electronic data representation of the financial information may be processed by the institution thereby depositing the check in the user s account.

In an implementation the institution may receive a decision from a representative on whether to credit the funds to an account. For example a representative such as a virtual teller may make a decision such as to approve or deny processing of the electronic data representation. According to an embodiment a virtual teller may fill in invalid financial information. For example the virtual teller may issue a decision to approve the electronic data representation and may fill in the financial information deemed invalid from the initial analysis based upon inspection or review by the teller. The institution may then receive the invalid information from the virtual bank teller such that the electronic data representation may be processed.

The institution may open the digital image file and process the digital image s using any known technology. In an implementation at the institution may identify the portions and without combining the portions at may retrieve financial information from the portions. The financial information may comprise the MICR number the routing number an amount etc.

At the retrieved financial information may be inserted into a check template by the institution for subsequent processing. It is noted that the insertion of the retrieved financial information into a check template is optional and may or may not be used depending on the processing implementation used.

At after retrieving the financial information from the check in an electronic data representation form the institution may determine whether the financial information such as the amount payable to the user the account associated with the user to deposit funds etc. may be valid. For example the institution may include electronic devices such as computers servers databases or the like that may be in communication with each other. The electronic devices may receive an electronic data representation and may perform an initial analysis on the quality of the data representation the readability of the data representation or the like. For example the electronic devices may determine whether the account number amount payable or the like may be readable such that they may be parsed and processed by the institution to credit an account associated with the user.

At if the financial information is determined to be valid the electronic data representation may be processed by the institution at thereby depositing the money in the user s account.

If the financial information is determined to be invalid at then the user may be advised at . For example the institution may transmit an email a web message an instant message or the like to the user indicating that the financial information associated with the electronic data representation may be invalid. The user may determine how to proceed by selecting an option on the web message replying to the email or the like.

Thus in an implementation instructions on how the user would like to proceed may be requested from the user such as whether the user would like to try the deposit again e.g. make another digital image file and send it to the institution or whether the user would like assistance from a representative for example. The user may indicate how they would like to proceed.

If the user would like assistance the financial information may be transferred to a representative for further review at . The representative may review the financial information associated with the electronic data representation to determine whether to allow the electronic data representation to be processed by the institution. If so the electronic data representation of the financial information may be processed by the institution at operation thereby depositing the check in the user s account.

At the institution may send a notice to the user via email facsimile instant message or mail for example that the check has been deposited into the selected account.

At the user may punch one or more holes or other marks in the check e.g. by using a hole punch or other device. In an implementation the one or more holes or other marks may be made in a predetermined location on the check e.g. as determined by the user or the institution an approximate location on the check or wherever the user chooses on the check. In an implementation the hole punch or other device may be provided by the institution. For example the hole s or other mark s may be made near a feature or point on the check such as the MICR number the sign etc. In an implementation the check may comprise a pre printed indicator to guide the user as to where to make the holes s or other marks s .

At a digital image file of the check may be created using a scanner a digital camera and or a PC for example. In an implementation the user may scan or otherwise create a digital image file comprising the front side and the back side of the check. At similar to the user may send the digital image file to the institution for processing.

At the institution may receive the digital image file of the endorsed check along with financial information pertaining to the account for depositing funds and any secondary data in an implementation and may process the digital image file. Processing of the digital image file may include identifying the one or more holes or other marks of the check and retrieving financial information regarding the check. In an implementation the hole s or mark s may be used to align the check and or locate certain financial information on the check. For example if the user places a hole at each of three corners of the check such information may be used to locate the fourth corner of the check. As another example if the user places a hole at the sign the image processor may use this information in determining the position of the MICR number. Any known image processing technology may be used such as edge detection filtering to remove imagery except the check in the received digital image file image sharpening and technologies to distinguish between the front and the back sides of the check. The institution may identify and or remove at least a portion of data that is extraneous to the check. The hole s or mark s may be used in the identification of data that is extraneous to the check and which may be removed by the institution.

Processing may continue with the check being processed and deposited using techniques described with respect to the method for example. In an implementation processing may proceed as described with respect to the method e.g. at with a determination of whether the financial information from the check is readable and valid.

Because the check has one or more holes or other marks that have been made by the user it is more difficult for the user to re present the check and the institution may more easily detect a re presentment. Thus the user may be deterred from re presenting the check.

Although the examples described herein may refer to separating a check into portions or making one or more holes or marks in a check prior to electronically presenting the check for deposit it is contemplated that any negotiable instrument may be processed using the techniques described herein.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to personal computers server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and includes both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

