---

title: Multiple-function user interactive tool for manipulating three-dimensional objects in a graphical user interface environment
abstract: Methods and apparatuses are provided which may be implemented to provide a multiple-function user interactive tool adapted for manipulating three-dimensional objects graphically presented within a virtual space.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08359549&OS=08359549&RS=08359549
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08359549
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080910
---
The subject matter disclosed herein relates to graphical computer interfaces and more particularly to methods and apparatuses associated with user interactive tools adapted for manipulating three dimensional objects graphically presented within a virtual space.

Computer aided design and or other like graphics editing programs may be adapted to allow users to interact in some manner for example through a graphical user interface environment with modeled or otherwise rendered three dimensional objects. Such three dimensional objects may be projected or otherwise rendered as needed for a two dimensional display and or print.

Interactive tools may be provided to allow a user to selectively manipulate the three dimensional objects within a virtual space. Such manipulation may be controlled for example through a user interface device such as a mouse trackball joy stick etc. For example certain programs may provide a rotate tool that may be adapted to allow a user to selectively rotate a three dimensional object. Certain programs may provide a movement tool that may be adapted to allow a user to selectively move a three dimensional object to different locations within a modeled space. Some programs may provide a scaling tool that may be adapted to allow a user to selectively change the scale of a three dimensional object.

Certain exemplary methods and apparatuses are provided herein which may be adapted to provide a multiple function user interactive tool for use within a graphical user interface environment. The user interactive tool may for example be adapted to allow for a user to selectively manipulate e.g. move rotate and or scale a three dimensional object. Such user interactive tool may be implemented within a computer application and or other like program for example as a widget and or other like capability. Such user interactive tool may be integral to an application such as e.g. a computer aided design and or other like graphics editing program and or provided through a plug in and or other like extension program adapted to interact with one or more host applications etc. In certain implementations such a user interactive tool may be implemented using one or more application programming interfaces or the like.

In certain aspects the methods and apparatuses provided herein may be implemented to promote a more efficient user experience since a single interactive tool may be adapted to provide multiple functions. By way of example but not limitation as described in more detail below in certain example implementations a single user interactive tool may include a plurality of selector portions that may be adapted to allow the user to selectively perform multiple functions such as 1 moving a three dimensional object along at least one axis using at least one axial movement selector portion 2 moving a three dimensional object along at least one plane or non planar surface using at least one 2D movement control selector portion 3 rotating a three dimensional object about at least one axis using at least one axial rotation selector portion 4 scaling a three dimensional object along at least one axis using at least one axial scaling selector portion and 5 scaling a three dimensional object using a uniform scaling selector portion.

As described in more detail below in certain example implementations a user interactive tool may be adapted to provide a first selector portion that may be adapted to be selected in a first manner e.g. mouse click to access the functionality of a uniform scaling selector portion. Such a first selector portion may also be selected in a second manner e.g. mouse over hover over etc. to initiate access to the functionality of a 2D movement control selector portion. Here in response to selecting initiating the functionality of a 2D movement control selector portion a corresponding indicator portion and or other like user feedback may be presented. For example if the cursor has been hovering over a selectable region or other like feature for a threshold period of time and such 2D movement control selector portion functionality may be acknowledged or otherwise selected by the user with a subsequent mouse click or other like user input.

In accordance with an aspect of the present description once the functionality of a 2D movement control selector portion is selected or otherwise invoked an indicator portion may be selectively displayed by the user interactive tool in such a manner as to avoid operatively occluding e.g. preventing selection of the other selector portions provided by the tool.

Thus in accordance with certain exemplary aspects a method may include associating a user interactive tool with at least one object that may be adapted for manipulation within a graphical user interface environment and at least initiating presentation of the user interactive tool having at least one selector portion and an indicator portion within the graphical user interface environment. The indicator portion may be selectively positioned to avoid operatively occluding the selector portion s . For example in certain implementations such an indicator portion may be positioned and or otherwise graphically depicted in two or more manners depending on the orientation of the user interactive tool and object . If it is determined that the indicator portion may operatively occlude one or more selector portions if presented in a first position then the indicator portion may be selectively presented in a second position that does not operatively occlude the selector portions. The terms selectively positioned may as in this example include relocating and or repositioning an indicator portion within the user interactive tool. In other exemplary implementations the terms selectively positioned may additionally and or alternatively include changing one or more features associated with the indicator portion. Thus by way of example but not limitation selectively positioned may include selectively affecting features such as position shape color transparency texture animation and or the like.

In certain example implementations the user interactive tool may include a first selector portion such as e.g. a uniform scaling selector portion and one or more axial controller portions extending outwardly e.g. in orthogonal directions from the first selector portion. Each axial controller portion may include for example an axial movement selector portion an axial rotation selector portion an axial scaling selector portion and or the like.

The first selector portion may include for example one or more selectable regions selectable edges and or the like that if selected may activate a 2D movement controller. Such activation may for example introduce an indicator portion that may extend outwardly from the first selector portion.

In accordance with another exemplary aspect a method may include associating a user interactive tool with at least one object adapted for manipulation within a graphical user interface environment and at least initiating presentation of the user interactive tool within the graphical user interface environment. Here such user interactive tool may include a first selector portion having a plurality of regions and a plurality of axial controller portions extending outwardly from certain ones of the plurality of regions. Each axial controller portion may be associated with a different axis of the object and may include an axial movement selector portion an axial rotation selector portion and an axial scaling selector portion. In certain example implementations the first selector portion may include a uniform scaling selector portion.

In accordance with other exemplary aspects an apparatus may include memory and at least one processing unit operatively coupled to the memory. Here the memory may be adapted to store data associated at least one object adapted for manipulation within a graphical user interface environment. The processing unit s may be adapted e.g. through computer implementable instructions that may be stored on a computer readable medium to associate a user interactive tool with the object within the graphical user interface environment. The processing unit s may be adapted to at least initiate presentation of the user interactive tool within the graphical user interface environment. As presented the user interactive tool may include at least one selector portion and an indicator portion wherein the indicator portion may be selectively positioned to not operatively occlude the selector portion s . The processing unit may also be adapted to implement and or otherwise support user manipulation of the object and or data associated with the object.

Reference is now made to which is a block diagram illustrating an exemplary computing environment adapted to provide a graphical user interface environment . In this example at least one display device may be operatively coupled to at least one computing device . As shown display device may for example be adapted to selectively present an image area a menu a tool select item an object a user interactive tool a cursor and or the like as directed by computing device . Image area may include all or part of display . There may be one or more image areas . Menu may graphically include one or more user selectable menu items including for example tool select item . Tool select item may be interactively selected or otherwise invoked by a user to activate user interactive tool . User interactive tool may be adapted to allow the user to manipulate object in some manner based on user input. Such user input may for example be associated with a user input device which may be controllably associated with cursor .

Object is representative of any three dimensional object that may be represented by data capable of being processed by computing device . While display device is illustrated as presenting a two dimensional image of object it should be understood that in other example implementations display device may be adapted to provide a virtual three dimensional image of object . Display device is representative of any type of display projector and or the like which may be adapted to display computer generated graphical data. Such two dimensional and or three dimensional display devices are known and beyond the scope of this description.

While user interactive tool is shown in this example as being presented outside of image area it should be understood that in other implementations user interactive tool may be presented within image area and or other areas within display .

The shape features of user interactive tool in the drawings herein is intended to demonstrate an example implementation and to not limit claimed subject matter since other implementations may be implemented. For example in the drawings user interactive tool is illustrated as being associated with Cartesian coordinate system having an x axis y axis and z axis however this is just one example implementation and claimed subject matter is not intended to be limited in this manner. For example in certain implementations a system having two or more non orthogonal axes may be implemented and or a non axial based coordinate system may be implemented.

Computing device may be representative of one or more devices that may be adapted to accept or otherwise access user input and based at least in part on such user input generate and provide graphical data to display device for presentation. As shown in the example of computing device may include one or more processing units that may be adapted to process user inputs to generate such graphical data in accordance with one or more instructions associated with one or more computing programs applications operating systems etc.

By way of example but not limitation a processing unit may include a microprocessor and or the like. Processing unit s may be operatively coupled to memory for example via at least a portion of at least one bus and or other resources . Memory may for example include a primary memory such as a random access memory and or the like. In certain implementations all or part of primary memory may be provided within or without the same circuit component s with at least one of processing unit . Memory may for example include a secondary memory which may include a data storage device adapted to provide non volatile data storage. By way of example but not limitation secondary memory may include a hard disk drive optical disc drive solid state drive etc.

A computer readable medium may for example be provided with computer implementable instructions stored thereon. Computer readable medium may for example be associated with secondary memory and or may be adapted to be accessed in other ways by processing unit s e.g. via bus etc. Computer readable medium may for example include any data storage medium that may store such instructions and or other like data. Such computer readable medium may for example represent an article of manufacture.

Processing unit s may for example be adapted to provide graphical data as generated to a display interface via bus and or memory . Display interface may be adapted to operatively couple computing device to display for example. By way of example but not limitation display interface may include a graphics processing unit not shown and video memory not shown that may be adapted to render and or otherwise generate data suitable for display by display device based at least in part on the graphical data from processing unit s and or a user interface . Here for example display interface may be operatively coupled to bus .

User interface may be adapted to operatively couple computing device to at least one user input device . User input device may for example include a keyboard keypad touch screen mouse trackball joystick camera microphone and or other like user input device.

Computing device may also include a network interface that may be adapted to provided communication with one or more other computing devices and or other like resources. For example network interface may be adapted to operatively couple computing device to at least one network and or other resources . Network may be representative of any communication system including for example the Internet. Resources may be representative of one or more computing and or other like devices that may exchange data and or instructions with computing device . The techniques provided herein may be implemented using one computing device and or may be implemented in a distributed or other like manner using two or more computing devices and or other like resources. Such computing and communication devices systems interfaces and or operative coupling techniques are well known.

Attention is drawn next to which illustrates an exemplary two dimensional representation of user interactive tool as might be presented using display device .

Here in this example implementation user interface tool includes a first selector portion represented by a cube. In certain example implementations first selector portion may be adapted as a uniform scaling selector portion such that if activated allows object to be uniformly scaled in three dimensions based at least in part on input from user input device .

Additionally and or alternatively in certain example implementations first selector portion may be selectively adapted as a 2D movement control selector portion. For example as described in greater detail below first selector portion may include one or more selectable regions selectable edges and or the like that if activated allows object to be moved in two dimensions e.g. via two input signals data from user input device .

In the example illustrated in a plurality of axial controller portions X Y and Z extend outwardly from different regions of first selector portion . Such axial controller portions may be adapted to provide different axial based controllers that if activated allows object to be manipulated in some manner with respect to an applicable axis based on input from user input device .

For example axial controller portion X may be associated with an x axis and a y axis e.g. for rotation of object . Axial controller portion X may include one or more selector portions such as axial movement selector portion X that if activated allows object to be selectively moved along the x axis an axial rotation selector portion X that if activated allows object to be selectively rotated about the y axis and or an axial scaling selector portion X that if activated allows object to be selectively non uniformly scaled with respect to the x axis.

Similarly axial controller portion Y may be associated with a y axis and a z axis e.g. for rotation of object . Axial controller portion Y may include one or more selector portions such as axial movement selector portion Y that if activated allows object to be selectively moved along the y axis an axial rotation selector portion Y that if activated allows object to be selectively rotated about the z axis and or an axial scaling selector portion Y that if activated allows object to be selectively non uniformly scaled with respect to the y axis.

Axial controller portion Z may be associated with a z axis and an x axis e.g. for rotation of object . Axial controller portion Z may include one or more selector portions such as axial movement selector portion Z that if activated allows object to be selectively moved along the z axis an axial rotation selector portion Z that if activated allows object to be selectively rotated about the x axis and or an axial scaling selector portion Z that if activated allows object to be selectively non uniformly scaled with respect to the z axis.

The various selector portions in the example implementation of user interactive tool above may for example be activated by the user selectively placing a cursor over a desired portion clicking a mouse button entering one or more keyboard commands and or one or more other like user inputs.

With this in mind reference is now made to which is similar to and further illustrates certain exemplary features of user interactive tool . Here for example based on user input cursor may be moved and placed over a desired selectable region B of first selector portion .

First selector portion may have a plurality of selectable regions and or selectable features . As shown using labels in this example first selector portion may include selectable regions A D and or selectable features A C. In this example first selector portion has the shape of a cube and as such the selectable regions may include one or more surfaces of the cube and or portions of such surfaces and or selectable features may include one or more edges and or portions thereof formed where the surfaces meet. It should be recognized however that a cube this is just one example and that other shapes may be implemented.

In certain exemplary implementations if cursor hovers over e.g. for a threshold period of time etc. at least a portion of a selectable region and or feature then first selector portion may be activated as a 2D movement controller. For example if cursor hovers over at least a portion of selectable regions A B and or feature A then first selector portion may be activated as a 2D movement controller that allows the user to move object within an X Y plane. Such activation may be illustrated for example by user interactive tool as shown in similar by adding an indicator portion . Here indicator portion may be designed to let the user know that a 2D movement controller may be activated and user input may move object within the illustrated X Y plane.

For example if cursor hovers over at least a portion of selectable regions C and or feature B then first selector portion may be activated as a 2D movement controller that allows the user to move object within an X Z plane. Such activation may be illustrated for example by user interactive tool as shown in similar by adding indicator portion . In indicator portion may be designed to let the user know that a 2D movement controller may be activated and user input may move object within the illustrated X Z plane.

Similarly if cursor hovers over at least a portion of selectable regions D and or feature C then first selector portion may be activated as a 2D movement controller that allows the user to move object within a Y Z plane. Such activation may be illustrated for example by user interactive tool as shown in similar by adding indicator portion . In indicator portion may be designed to let the user know that a 2D movement controller may be activated and user input may move object within the illustrated Y Z plane.

Hence in the above example first selector portion may be easily and or identifiably activated to allow for selected 2D movement control. While illustrated in these examples as providing a 2D plane it should be understood that in other implementations non planar 2D movement control may be provided for in such and or similar manner.

Reference is now made to which are similar to but which illustrate by way of example how an exemplary indicator portion may be selectively positioned to avoid potentially operatively occluding certain other selectable portions of user interactive tool .

Thus in accordance with certain implementations as illustrated in if the functionality of a 2D movement control selector portion is selected or otherwise invoked indicator portion may be selectively displayed as part of user interactive tool in such a manner to avoid operatively occluding e.g. preventing selection of the other selectable portions. As shown in the example of indicator portion may be positioned in a complimentary and or other related position with regard to either of the selected plane here the X Y plane and or the selectable regions features etc. associated with first selector portion . As previously mentioned but not shown in this example it should be recognized that various features associated with an indicator portion may be selected affected to avoid operatively occluding one or more selectable portions.

Similarly as shown in the example of indicator portion may be positioned in a complimentary and or other related position with regard to either of the selected plane here the Y Z plane and or the selectable regions features etc. associated with first selector portion .

In certain example implementations indicator portion may be deactivated hidden and or otherwise removed from the graphical presentation of user interactive tool if the user interactive tool is being manipulated and or otherwise selectable portions thereof are being interacted with. Thus for example indicator portion in may be hidden if user interactive tool is being used to rotate or otherwise manipulate object .

Reference is now made to which is a flow diagram illustrating an exemplary method that may be implemented for example in a graphical user interface environment .

At block a user interactive tool may be operatively associated in some manner with at least one object that may be adapted for manipulation within a graphical user interface environment.

At block graphical presentation of the user interactive tool may be initiated within the graphical user interface environment. Here for example such user interactive tool may be graphically presented as having at least one selector portion and an indicator portion. Such an indicator portion may be selectively positioned to avoid operatively occluding one or more selector portions.

Reference is now made to which is a flow diagram illustrating an exemplary method that may be implemented for example in a graphical user interface environment .

At block a user interactive tool may be associated in some manner with at least one object that may be adapted for manipulation within a graphical user interface environment.

At block graphical presentation of the user interactive tool may be initiated within the graphical user interface environment. Here for example such user interactive tool may be graphically presented as having a first selector portion with a plurality of regions and a plurality of axial controller portions extending outwardly from certain regions. Each of the axial controller portions may be operatively associated with a different axis of the object and may include an axial movement selector portion an axial rotation selector portion and an axial scaling selector portion.

While certain exemplary techniques have been described and shown herein using various methods and apparatuses it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various other modifications may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from claimed subject matter. Additionally many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation to the teachings of claimed subject matter without departing from the central concept described herein.

Therefore it is intended that claimed subject matter not be limited to the particular examples disclosed but that such claimed subject matter may also include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

