---

title: Synchronization and transfer of digital media items
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, for synchronizing and transferring digital media items. One or more media items are received, from a network operating environment, at a first device. A first media database on the first device, including metadata associated with the media items, is synchronized with a second media database on a second device. The one or more media items are moved from the first device to the second device. The one or more media items are copied from the second device to the first device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08135865&OS=08135865&RS=08135865
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08135865
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080904
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 969 947 titled Synchronization and Transfer of Digital Media Items filed Sep. 4 2007 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In recent years electronic online distribution of media items such as music and movies have become popular. A user can access a media service from a client side application on a computer. The user can purchase media items from the media service and download them to the computer. The downloaded media items can be copied to a tethered device such as a portable media player. This procedure for obtaining media items forces the user to be in front of a computer whenever they wish to obtain new media items.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include the actions of receiving from a network operating environment one or more media items at a first device synchronizing a first media database on the first device including metadata associated with the media items with a second media database on a second device moving the one or more media items from the first device to the second device and copying the one or more media items from the second device to the first device. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus devices computer program products and computer readable media.

In general another aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include the actions of synchronizing a first media queue on a first device with a second media queue on a second device identifying one or more media items in the synchronized second media queue whose downloads are incomplete and initiating downloads of the identified media items to the second device. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus devices computer program products and computer readable media.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Downloading at a portable device of digital media items that were interrupted can be completed at a computer to which the portable device is tethered. Media items obtained through a device can be synchronized back to a computer to which the device is coupled e.g. tethered wireless . Media items that are impractical for downloading e.g. due to size to a device can be requested through the device and downloaded at a computer to which the device is coupled.

The details of one or more embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display can implement liquid crystal display LCD technology light emitting polymer display LPD technology or some other display technology. The touch sensitive display can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user.

In some implementations the touch sensitive display can comprise a multi touch sensitive display . A multi touch sensitive display can for example process multiple simultaneous touch points including processing data related to the pressure degree and or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers chording and other interactions. Other touch sensitive display technologies can also be used e.g. a display in which contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. Some examples of multi touch sensitive display technology are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 846 6 570 557 6 677 932 and 6 888 536 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user. In some implementations the graphical user interface can include one or more display objects . In the example shown the display objects are graphic representations of system objects. Some examples of system objects include device functions applications windows files alerts events or other identifiable system objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a telephony device as indicated by a phone object an e mail device as indicated by the e mail object a network data communication device as indicated by the Web object a Wi Fi base station device not shown and a media processing device as indicated by the media player object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the phone object the e mail object the Web object and the media player object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement network distribution functionality. For example the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device and provide access to its associated network while traveling. In particular the mobile device can extend Internet access e.g. Wi Fi to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example mobile device can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such mobile device can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.

In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example in response to a user touching the phone object the graphical user interface of the touch sensitive display may present display objects related to various phone functions likewise touching of the email object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various e mail functions touching the Web object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various Web surfing functions and touching the media player object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various media processing functions.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface environment or state of can be restored by pressing a button located near the bottom of the mobile device . In some implementations each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding home display objects displayed on the touch sensitive display and the graphical user interface environment of can be restored by pressing the home display object.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include additional display objects such as a short messaging service SMS object a calendar object a photos object a camera object a calculator object a stocks object a weather object a maps object a notes object a clock object an address book object and a settings object . Touching the SMS display object can for example invoke an SMS messaging environment and supporting functionality likewise each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . For example if the device is functioning as a base station for other devices one or more connection objects may appear in the graphical user interface to indicate the connection. In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user e.g. a user may specify which display objects are displayed and or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example a speaker and a microphone can be included to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations an up down button for volume control of the speaker and the microphone can be included. The mobile device can also include an on off button for a ring indicator of incoming phone calls. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch sensitive display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch sensitive display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations an ambient light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch sensitive display . In some implementations an accelerometer can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape. In some implementations the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS or other positioning systems e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device through an interface e.g. port device to provide access to location based services.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer a display screen or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. In some implementations the port device allows the mobile device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP HTTP UDP and any other known protocol. In some implementations a TCP IP over USB protocol can be used as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 945 904 filed Jun. 22 2007 for Multiplexed Data Stream Protocol which provisional patent application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as an 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi 3G code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE etc.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display which can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user. In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a music processing device as indicated by the music player object a video processing device as indicated by the video player object a digital photo album device as indicated by the photos object and a network data communication device for online shopping as indicated by the store object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the music player object the video player object the photos object and store object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface of mobile device can include additional display objects such as the Web object the calendar object the address book object the clock object the calculator object and the settings object described above with reference to mobile device of . In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include other display objects such as a Web video object that provides functionality for uploading and playing videos on the Web. Each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user. In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can include audio jack a volume control device sensor devices and wireless communication subsystems and and a port device or some other wired port connection described above with reference to mobile device of .

The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other mobile devices or cell phones etc. over the wireless network . Likewise the mobile devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication devices shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

The mobile device or can for example communicate with one or more services and over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example a navigation service can provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device or . A user of the mobile device can invoke a map functionality e.g. by pressing the maps object on the top level graphical user interface shown in and can request and receive a map for a particular location.

A messaging service can for example provide e mail and or other messaging services. A media service can for example provide access to media files such as song files audio books movie files video clips and other media data. In some implementations separate audio and video services not shown can provide access to the respective types of media files. A syncing service can for example perform syncing services e.g. sync files . An activation service can for example perform an activation process for activating the mobile device or . Other services can also be provided including a software update service that automatically determines whether software updates exist for software on the mobile device or then downloads the software updates to the mobile device or where the software updates can be manually or automatically unpacked and or installed.

The mobile device or can also access other data and content over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device or . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching the Web object .

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a positioning system e.g. GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the mobile device or is intended to operate. For example a mobile device or may include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network. In particular the wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device or may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device or on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keyboard.

In some implementations the mobile device or can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations the mobile device or can include the functionality of an MP3 player such as an iPod . The mobile device or may therefore include a 36 pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input output and control devices can also be used.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel as described in reference to .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. The memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other software instructions to facilitate other processes and functions e.g. security processes and functions as described in reference to . The memory may also store other software instructions not shown such as web video instructions to facilitate web video related processes and functions and or web shopping instructions to facilitate web shopping related processes and functions. In some implementations the media processing instructions are divided into audio processing instructions and video processing instructions to facilitate audio processing related processes and functions and video processing related processes and functions respectively. An activation record and International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI or similar hardware identifier can also be stored in memory .

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device or may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

The OS kernel manages the resources of the mobile device or and allows other programs to run and use these resources. Some examples of resources include a processor memory and I O. For example the kernel can determine which running processes should be allocated to a processor processors or processor cores allocates memory to the processes and allocates requests from applications and remote services to perform I O operations. In some implementations the kernel provides methods for synchronization and inter process communications with other devices.

In some implementations the kernel can be stored in non volatile memory of the mobile device or . When the mobile device or is turned on a boot loader starts executing the kernel in supervisor mode. The kernel then initializes itself and starts one or more processes for the mobile device or including a security process for remote access management as described in reference to .

The library system provides various services applications running in the application layer . Such services can include audio services video services database services image processing services graphics services etc.

The application framework provides an object oriented application environment including classes and Application Programming Interfaces APIs that can be used by developers to build applications using well known programming languages e.g. Objective C Java .

The applications layer is where various applications exist in the software stack . Developers can use the APIs and environment provided by the application framework to build applications such as the applications represented by the display objects shown in e.g. email media player Web browser phone music player video player photos and store .

In the example shown the access device includes device drivers a mobile services daemon a mobile services API and one or more mobile service applications . The device drivers are responsible for implementing the transport layer protocol such as TCP IP over USB. The mobile services daemon listens e.g. continuously to the communications channel for activity and manages the transmission of commands and data over the communication channel . The mobile services API provides a set of functions procedures variables and data structures for supporting requests for services made by the mobile services application . The mobile services application can be a client program running on the access device which provides one or more user interfaces for allowing a user to interact with a remote service e.g. activation service over a network e.g. the Internet wireless network peer to peer network optical network Ethernet intranet . In some implementations a device activation process can be used as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 767 447 filed Jun. 22 2007 for Device Activation and Access which patent application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The application can allow a user to set preferences download or update files of content or software search databases store user data select services browse content perform financial transactions or engage in any other online service or function. An example of a mobile services application is the iTunes client which is publicly available from Apple Inc. Cupertino Calif. . An example of a mobile device that uses the iTunes client is the iPod product developed by Apple Inc. Another example of a mobile device that uses the iTunes client is the iPhone product developed by Apple Inc.

In an example operational mode a user connects the mobile device to the access device using for example a USB cable. In some other implementations the mobile device and access device include wireless transceivers for establishing a wireless link e.g. Wi Fi . The drivers and kernel detect the connection and alert the security process and mobile services daemon of the connections status. Once the connection is established certain non sensitive information can be passed from the mobile device to the access device e.g. name disk size activation state to assist in establishing a secure communication session.

In some implementations the security process establishes a secure communication session e.g. encrypted SSL session with the access device by implementing a secure network protocol. For example if using SSL protocol the mobile device and access device will negotiate a cipher suite to be used during data transfer establish and share a session key and authenticate the access device to the mobile device . In some implementations if the mobile device is password protected the security process will not establish a session and optionally alert the user of the reason for failure.

Once a secure session is successfully established the mobile device and the access device can exchange sensitive information e.g. passwords personal information and remote access to the mobile device can be granted to one or more services e.g. navigation service messaging service media service syncing service activation service . In some implementations the mobile services daemon multiplexes commands and data for transmission over the communication channel . This multiplexing allows several remote services to have access to the mobile device in a single session without the need to start a new session or handshaking for each service requesting access to the mobile device .

In the mobile device can be of the form of mobile device or . In some implementations the mobile device can be physically connected to the user system using one or more cables and optionally one or more docking stations physically connected to the user system by one or more cables. In this configuration the mobile device can be referred to as a tethered device. In some other implementations the mobile device is connected to the user system over one or more wireless networks.

In some implementations the user system can include a media application not shown that can communicate with the media service and a tethered device . In some implementations the media application is a mobile services application . The media application can allow a user to set preferences download or update files of content e.g. media items or software search databases store user data select services browse content perform financial transactions copy move or synchronize content or software between the user system and the device acquire digital rights to content play back or present media items or engage in any other online service or function. An example of a media application is the iTunes client from Apple Inc. Cupertino Calif. .

The user system can store one or more digital media items referred to hereinafter as media items . Media items are digital data that pertain to visually or aurally perceived content. Examples of specific forms of media items include but are not limited to songs movies music images games podcasts movies videos audiobooks etc.

In some implementations information associated with the media items in the user system can be stored in a user system media database A. The user system media database A can store characteristics metadata or attributes of media items such as title album track artist show series actors directors composer genre author host file size bit rate dimensions aspect ratio and total time for example. The media application maintains the user system media database A and allows the user to manage the media items and the media database.

In some implementations the user system media database A includes a queue or playlist of purchased requested data items to be downloaded to the user system referred to hereinafter as the user system media queue . The user system media queue includes media items that have been requested from the media service but have yet to be downloaded to the user system from the media service .

The device can communicate with the media service and the media application on the user system . The device can store copies of media items that are stored in the user system and can include a copy of the user system media database B. The device can communicate with the media application on the user system to copy one or more of the media items stored at the user system and to synchronize the user system media database B on the device with the user system media database A on the user system .

The device also can store one or more data items that were requested from the media service by the user through the device and downloaded to the device and which have yet to be copied or synchronized to the user system . The device can include a device media database for storing information associated with these media items that were requested from the media service by the user through the device .

In some implementations the device media database includes a device media queue or playlist . The device media queue includes media items that were requested from the media service by the user through the device but have yet to be downloaded to the device . In some implementations the device media queue includes pointers to media items.

Thus the device can include a copy of the user system media database B and a device media database . The device media database can include information that is not in the user system media database B. In some implementations information from the copy of the user system media database B and the device media database are presented to a user of the device together as if the information came from a single media database.

When the device is tethered or otherwise coupled to the user system information in the device media database and the device media queue can be synchronized with the user system media database A and the user system media queue respectively on the user system . During synchronization the user system media database A and queue are updated with information from the device media database and queue respectively and the device media database and queue can be cleared. The media items that have been requested through the device and downloaded to the device are moved to the user system and then moved back to the device . The updated user system media database A can then be synchronized with the copy of the user system media database B.

As described above the device media queue includes media items that were requested from the media service through the device but have yet to be downloaded to the device . If a media item in the device media queue is not downloaded to the device because the download process was interrupted has not started or is not allowed e.g. is not allowed to be downloaded directly to the device the media item can be downloaded to the user system after the user system media queue is updated with information from the device media queue . In other words partial or not started downloads to the device can be resumed or started on the user system.

In some implementations media items in the user system media queue and the device media queue can include indications of where the user system or the device the request for the media item originated. In some implementations the originator of the request is indicated by an identifier of the user system or device from which the request originated.

The requested media items are added to a device media queue . In some implementations a media item is added to the device media queue when the request for the media item is processed by the media service . For example if the user requested to purchase a media item the media item is added to the device media queue when the purchase request is processed.

Downloading of media items in the device media queue is initiated . In some implementations media items in the device media queue are downloaded to the device in the queue order. In some other implementations the media items are downloaded in some other order e.g. an order set by the user . In some implementations the user can modify the downloading order while a download is in progress the media item being downloaded can be paused to accommodate another media item that the user has newly prioritized. A media item is removed from the device media queue i.e. the download is completed and the media item is playable on the device when the file corresponding to the media item is transmitted in its entirety to the device and as required digital rights management DRM is applied to the media item. If either the transmission of the file or the application of the DRM is interrupted or otherwise not complete the media item is not considered downloaded and remains in the device media queue .

In some implementations the download of a media item includes downloading the media item and any associated ancillary data. The associated ancillary data can include for example metadata e.g. album and artist information and other data e.g. album cover art movie poster art liner notes etc. . The ancillary data can be a part of the media item itself or in separate data files or objects associated with the media item. The ancillary data is added to the media database at which the media item s are downloaded.

In some implementations media items of particular types that are in the device media queue are not downloaded to the device . For example some types of media items e.g. movies audiobooks generally have sizes that make downloading to the device over a wireless connection to the media service impractical. In some implementations media items can be bypassed delayed from being downloaded based on the sizes of the respective media items or the types of the respective media items. These media items remain in the queue and can be downloaded to the user system further details of which are described below.

The device media queue on the device is synchronized with the user system media queue A . The media items in the device media queue are moved to the user system media queue . The media items that were moved from the device media queue to the user system media queue can include indications that they were originally requested through the device .

Media items in the updated system media queue that originated from the device media queue and which have yet to be downloaded completely are identified . These media items can be identified in the user system media queue based on the identifier of the original requesting device or user system for example. The identified media items can be media items whose downloads were interrupted not started or not allowed due to download file size restrictions for example.

Downloading of the media items identified above is initiated . An identified media item can be downloaded to the user system and then synchronized to the device after the download is complete. Downloads that were not completed on the device can be completed on the user system then subsequently synchronized.

In some implementations the resumption or starting of downloads only occur in one direction. That is incomplete or not started downloads to the device can be resumed on the user system but incomplete or not started downloads to the user system are not resumed on the device. Alternatively the media items can be downloaded directly to the device and the user system can be synchronized at a later time.

The media databases in the user system and the device are synchronized . In some implementations information in the device media database is moved to the user system media database A. The device media database is cleared of information. The user system media database B on the device is refreshed with the updated user system media database A. In some implementations blocks and can be performed serially or in parallel as parts of a synchronization process.

Media items that were downloaded to the device as opposed to being copied from the user system are moved to the user system . The moved media items are then copied back to the device .

The synchronization of the media databases and the moving of media items from the device to the user system and back to the device ensure that the user system media database A includes the most updated information on media items requested by the user through the device and the user system and that the user is not surprised by media items not appearing in the user system due to the device media queue not synchronizing with the user system.

In some implementations the media databases A B and include information on play counts for media items i.e. how many times a media item has been played . When the media databases are synchronized play count information in device media database is moved to the user system media database A along with the other information.

In some implementations copies of the media databases and queues A and are stored at the media service . These copies of the media databases and queues can be updated during the synchronization of the device and user system media databases and queues.

In some implementations if a download to the device was interrupted or not started the user can elect to have the download resumed or started at the device as opposed to the user system in reference to above. In this situation after the information in the device media queue is moved to the user system media queue media items to be downloaded to the device are moved back into the device media queue .

In some implementations a media item includes restrictions on access after a certain time has elapsed. For example the media item can be unplayable after 72 hours from the first playback. In these implementations if a restricted media item is downloaded to the device but not played back yet the media item can be copied to the user system during synchronization with the period of allowed use unchanged.

In some implementations a download of a media item to the device over a wireless connection can be interrupted by a temporary loss of the wireless signal. For example the device can be out of range of a Wi Fi network for a brief time and then go back into range of the Wi Fi network. If a media item download was in progress over the wireless connection when the wireless signal is lost the download can be automatically suspended until the device reestablishes the wireless connection. The download can resume after reestablishment of the wireless connection. If the device synchronizes with the user system before the download resumes the download is treated as an incomplete download and can be resumed on the user system as described above.

The disclosed and other embodiments and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. The disclosed and other embodiments can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter effecting a machine readable propagated signal or a combination of one or more them. The term data processing apparatus encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. A propagated signal is an artificially generated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the disclosed embodiments can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The disclosed embodiments can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of what is disclosed here or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of what being claims or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understand as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular embodiments have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

