---

title: Coated colloidal materials
abstract: Coated colloidal materials, methods for making coated colloidal materials, and methods of using coated colloidal materials are disclosed. The method yields coated colloidal materials where the optical characteristics of the core is not adversely affected. The coated colloidal materials can be self-assembled into films, layers, or structures and used in the detection of analytes through detection assays.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08735174&OS=08735174&RS=08735174
owner: Northwestern University
number: 08735174
owner_city: Evanston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080723
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 951 620 filed Jul. 24 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Office of Naval Research grant no. N00014 06 1 0079 and National Science Foundation grant no. DMR 0520513. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The disclosure is generally related to coated colloidal materials and more specifically is related to silica coated transition metal nanocrystals such as silica coated silver or gold nanoprisms.

Metal nanoparticles have attracted a great deal of attention during the past decades due to their potential applications in the fields of catalysis optics and biosensing. Gold and silver nanostructures are of particular interest due to their unusual optical properties that are dependent on size and shape. Triangular silver nanoprisms in particular exhibit highly tunable architecture dependent optical properties. These structures also have very high surface energies especially at their tips and edges where the silver atoms can be readily oxidized. Unfortunately this oxidation causes either truncation of the tips of the prisms or their complete dissolution and is accompanied by a concomitant shift in or a complete loss of their surface plasmon resonance SPR bands. Consequently methods have been investigated in the attempt to protect nanoparticles from oxidation.

One method that has been attempted to protect nanoparticles from oxidation is encasing the nanoparticles in silica shells. These shells are useful because they 1 are transparent in the visible and IR regions of the spectrum 2 are chemically inert in a wide variety of solvents and 3 can be functionalized using well developed silane coupling chemistry. Therefore core shell nanostructures would typically maintain the optical signatures of the metal cores while gaining the desirable chemical and physical properties of the silica shells.

The St ber method recently has been adapted for coating metal nanocrystals with silica shells. See e.g. Alsan et al. 129 1524 2007 . This sol gel process typically involves ammonia catalyzed hydrolysis and condensation of molecules such as tetraethoxysilane. However directly applying this method to coat silver nanoparticles poses challenges because etching and aggregation of silver nanoparticles are induced by ammonia.

To solve this problem Kobayashi et al. have used dimethylamine DMA at concentrations between 0.4 and 0.8 M to catalyze silica shell growth on silver nanoparticles. See Kobayashi et al. 282 392 2005 . Using DMA as opposed to ammonia the researchers showed that silica shells could be easily formed without decreasing the diameter of the silver nanoparticle core. However Kobayashi s method cannot be applied to silver nanoprisms because significant etching and aggregation of the nanoprisms occur even in a 0.4 M solution of DMA.

Therefore a need exists for the preparation of coated nanoparticles where the size and shape of the nanoparticle is maintained through the coating process.

Disclosed herein are coated colloidal materials methods for making coated colloidal materials and methods of using coated colloidal materials.

Thus in one embodiment are disclosed coated colloidal materials comprising a a colloidal material having a passivated surface and b a coating comprising at least one of a silica or a titania on the passivated surface. In another embodiment are disclosed coated colloidal material prepared by a method comprising admixing a colloidal material a surface passivating agent and a coating agent in the presence of an optional catalyst.

The colloidal material can be a nanocrystal or more specifically a nanoprism. In some cases the colloidal material comprises a transition metal such as gold or silver.

In various cases the surface passivating agent has at least one functional group selected from the group of consisting of a halo an alkoxy a carboxylic acid an ester a thiol a selenide an amine an amide a phosphate a phosphite a phosphonate an alkene an alkyne a silane a siloxane a borane and mixtures thereof. In some cases the surface passivating agent comprises a thiol. The thiol can further comprise a second functional group. The second functional group can be a halo an alkoxy a carboxylic acid an ester a thiol a selenide an amine an amide a phosphate a phosphite a phosphonate an alkene an alkyne a silane a siloxane or a borane. In one specific case the surface passivating agent is 16 mercaptohexadecanoic acid.

The coating agent can be a silica a titania or mixtures thereof. The silica can be from a silane such as an alkoxysilane. In some cases the silane is tetraethoxysilane. The titania can be from a titanium alkoxide.

The optional catalyst can be an amine. In some embodiments the amine is an alkylamine an arylamine or mixtures thereof. In some cases the amine is dimethyl amine.

The coated materials disclosed herein can further comprise a functionalizing agent on the coating. The functionalizing agent can have at least one functional group selected from a halo an alkoxy a carboxylic acid an ester a thiol a selenide an amine an amide a phosphate a phosphite a phosphonate an alkene an alkyne a silane a siloxane a borane or a mixture thereof. In various cases the functionalizing agent can be decyl trimethoxy silane decyl triethoxy silane dodecyl triethoxy silane hexadecyl trimethoxy silane octadecyl trimethoxy silane or mixtures thereof. In some embodiments the functionalizing agent comprises a second functional group. In such cases the second functional group can be the same or different from the first functional group. A specific functionalizing agent having a second functional group is 3 aminopropyl trimethoxy silane. Other functionalizing agents contemplated include biomaterials such as oligonucleotides polypeptides proteins antibodies peptides anticancer agents polynucleotide binding agents carbohydrates lipids cell surface receptor binding agents and mixtures thereof.

In some embodiments the coated colloidal materials disclosed herein can be formed into monolayer and can be deposited onto a substrate such as a silica wafer using a Langmuir Blodgett technique.

The disclosed coated colloidal materials can be used to detect analytes. The method comprises contacting the sample with a coated colloidal material as disclosed herein under conditions sufficient to permit an interaction of the analyte and the coated colloidal material and detecting the interaction wherein the interaction of the analyte and the coated colloidal material produces a detection event. The detection event can be any event that produces a measurable change. In cases where the coated colloidal material comprises an oligonucleotide functionalizing agent and the analyte is a complementary oligonucleotide or a oligonucleotide binding agent the detection event is a change in melting temperature.

The disclosed methods for preparing coated colloidal materials do not adversely affect the size shape or physical chemical characteristics of the colloidal material. The prior art disclosed methods of preparing silica coated colloidal materials but those methods adversely affected the size shape and other characteristics of the colloidal materials through etching or other reactions. In accordance with the present invention colloidal materials can be coated without detrimental or adverse affects to the colloidal material.

Additional features of the invention may become apparent to those skilled in the art from a review of the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the drawings the examples and the appended claims.

While the disclosed comparative study includes embodiments in various foil is it is not intended to limit the invention to the specific embodiments described and illustrated herein.

Disclosed herein are coated colloidal materials. These coated colloidal materials generally include a crystalline colloidal material and a coating e.g. silica or titania. In some embodiments the crystalline colloidal material is a nanocrystal of a transition metal for example silver or gold. The disclosed method of making the coated colloidal material is such that the colloidal material has the same morphology as the colloidal material prior to application of the coating. Consequently nanocrystals of transition metals can be coated with a silica or a titania without detrimental effects on the shape size or physical chemical characteristics e.g. optical properties of the nanocrystals. This method allows control of the physical and chemical characteristics of the nanocrystal without adversely affecting the other desirable properties of the nanocrystal.

Colloidal materials are dispersible discrete particles and can be crystalline. In some embodiments the colloidal material can be silica or titania. In various embodiments the colloidal material comprises crystalline transition metal colloids and preferably are transition metal nanocrystals.

Modern methods of manufacturing nanocrystals yield nanocrystals with a wide variety of sizes and shapes. Preferably crystalline colloidal materials have at least two dimensions in an X Y Z coordinate axis in the nanometer range but are not limited by shape. The shape of the crystalline colloidal material can be for example a rod cube truncated cube cuboctahedra truncated octahedra octahedral pyramid prism spheres and or wire. Preferably the crystalline colloidal material is a nanocrystal in the shape of a cube truncated cube octahedra truncated octahedra or prism. Even more preferably the nanocrystal is a prism. The colloidal material used herein is not limited by the dimensions of the nanocrystal.

All crystalline transition metal colloids amenable to the conditions necessary to form a coating are contemplated. In this context a coating is a material that is capable of covering at least a portion of a colloidal material. In some cases the coating is a coating with or of silica titania or both. The coatings can include additional components or formulations dependent for example on the purity of the materials used the method of production the inclusion of dopants or other elements and or the crystal form of the silica and or titania.

Applicable crystalline colloidal materials include insulators semiconductors and conductors. Semiconductors can include p type and n type materials. Crystalline colloidal materials can further include doped insulators doped semiconductors and doped conductors. Moreover crystalline colloidal materials can include transition metals alkali metals alkali earth metals and main group elements. Crystalline colloidal materials can also include lanthanide and actinide elements. The transition metal colloids included herein are pure transition metal colloids i.e. colloids that contain only a single transition metal and or transition metal alloys wherein transition metal alloys have at least one transition metal and at least one additional element. Herein transition metals specifically include group 8 9 10 11 and 12 metals. More specifically transition metals include iron cobalt nickel copper zinc ruthenium rhodium palladium silver cadmium iridium platinum and gold. Preferably the transition metal comprises silver or gold.

As used herein the colloidal material is passivated prior to or simultaneous to applying the coating. Typically the colloidal material is passivated using a surface passivating agent. Non limiting examples of surface passivating agents include those agents that can form monolayers bilayers and multilayers on the surface of the colloidal material. By way of illustration a surface passivating agent can be an agent that forms a monolayer on the surface of the colloidal material by covalent ionic van der Waals or other chemical or electrostatic interactions with the colloidal material. In one example surface passivating agents form chemical bonds with the colloidal material. The surface passivating agent can include one or more functional groups such as a halo an alkoxy a carboxylic acid an ester a thiol an alkylselenide an amine an amide a phosphate a phosphite a phosphonate an alkene an alkyne a silane a siloxane and or a borane functional group.

In one preferred embodiment a surface passivating agent contains a thiol functional group. Non limiting examples of surface passivating agents that contain thiol functionalities include organic thiols e.g. linear alkanethiols branched alkanethiols cycloalkanethiols arylalkanethiols and arylthiols. Thiols can be described by either their chemical formula or their chemical name for example CHSH and octanethiol are synonymous. Alkanethiols include chemicals with the generic formula of R SH where R is an alkyl group having about 6 to about 24 carbon atoms.

In another embodiment the surface passivating agent is a two component system that forms bilayers on the colloidal material. Bilayers can be formed by way of example by van der Waal aromatic ionic and covalent interactions between chemicals. A bilayer surface passivated colloidal material can be made by mixing the colloidal material with a first surface passivating agent and a second surface passivating agent. The second surface passivating agent can be the same surface passivating agent or a different passivating agent. Moreover multiple chemically distinct second passivating agents can be added to the colloidal material. By way of a non limiting example a first surface passivating agent can be an alkanethiol for example dodecanethiol and a second surface passivating agent can be an alkanecarboxylic acid for example dodecanoic acid. Without being bound by theory a bilayer surface passivated colloidal material is formed when the dodecanethiol interacts with the colloidal material and the dodecanoic acid through hydrophobic or van der Waal interactions interacts with the linear alkyl functionality of dodecanethiol.

Preferably the surface passivating agent is a single component system that contains a first functional group and a second functional group. More preferably the two functional groups are chemically distinct. Non limiting examples of surface passivating agents that contain two chemically distinct functional groups are those compounds that have a first thiol functional group e.g. saturated or unsaturated alkanethiols branched alkanethiols cycloalkanethiols arylalkanethiols and arylthiols and a second functional group that is not a thiol. Preferably the saturated or unsaturated alkanethiols branched alkanethiols cycloalkanethiols arylalkanethiols and arylthiols have about 6 to about 24 carbon atoms. Non limiting examples of passivating agents having two functional groups include compounds where the first functional group is a thiol and the second functional group is a halo a hydroxyl a carboxylic acid an ester a ketone a selenide an amine an amide a phosphate a phosphite a phosphonate a silane a siloxane or a borane. One class of preferred passivating agents are thiol carboxylic acids. One non limiting example of a preferred thiol carboxylic acid is 16 mercaptohexadecanoic acid. A second class of preferred surface passivating agents is thiol siloxanes for example those described in EP 0 491 622. One example of a preferred thiol siloxane is 12 mercaptododecyl triethoxy silane.

Another aspect of the invention is mixing the colloidal material with a coating agent. As used herein coating agent means a chemical precursor to a colloidal material coating. As used throughout the coating agent precursor can be used interchangeably to refer to the coating itself unless specified otherwise. In one embodiment the coating agent is a silane which is a silicon containing precursor to a silica coating. Thus for example when the coating is a silica the coating agent is typically a silane precursor. Reference to the silane as the coating encompasses a reference to the silica as the actual coating. It can be understood by one skilled in the art that the coating agent can be mixed with the colloidal material before after or contemporaneously with the addition of the surface passivating agent.

In one preferred embodiment the silane coating agent is an orthosilicate e.g. an alkyl orthosilicate also called an alkyoxysilane. Tetraalkyl orthosilicates also known as tetra alkoxy silanes are specifically contemplated wherein the alkyl alkoxy groups can be the same or different. Non limiting examples of tetraalkyl orthosilicates include tetramethyl orthosilicate also known as tetramethoxysilane tetraethyl orthosilicate TEOS tetraethoxysilane tetrapropyl orthosilicate and tetrabutyl orthosilicate.

In another embodiment the coating agent is an titania. Titania refers to any titanium containing precursor to an titania coating. It can be understood by one skilled in the art that the titania can be mixed with the colloidal material before after or contemporaneously with the addition of the surface passivating agent. In one preferred embodiment the titiania can be an titanium alkoxide. Titanium alkoxides include titanium isopropoxide titanium methoxide and titanium ethoxide.

The coated colloidal materials can be prepared using an optional catalyst. Typically the catalyst is a condensation catalyst. A condensation catalyst is an agent that facilitates the formation of the colloidal material coating. Silicate condensation catalysts include but are not limited to amines such as alkylamines or arylamines. Alkylamines include Calkylamines Calkyl amines and Calkyl amines. In one embodiment the catalyst comprises dimethylamine. Additional silica condensation catalysts are familiar to one skilled in the art.

The optical properties of the coated colloidal materials disclosed herein are distinguishable from the optical properties of the non coated colloidal material. Shifts in the optical spectra of colloidal materials were observed when the colloidal materials were mixed with surface passivating agents. Additionally shifts in the optical spectra of colloidal materials were observed when colloidal materials were coated. In one particular embodiment the optical spectrum of a silver nanoprism red shifted upon the addition of a surface passivating agent moreover the optical spectrum red shifted upon the formation of the silica coated silver nanoprism.

The thickness of the colloidal material coating can be any desired thickness but is preferably about 1 nm to about 100 nm. Moreover the thicknesses of the colloidal material coating can be about 5 nm about 10 nm about 15 nm about 20 nm about 25 nm about 30 nm about 35 nm about 40 nm about 45 nm about 50 nm about 55 nm about 60 nm about 65 nm about 70 nm about 75 nm about 80 nm about 90 nm about 95 nm and about 100 nm. illustrates some examples of silica coated silver nanocrystals with silica coating thicknesses of about 15 about 30 and about 45 nm.

In some embodiments the coated colloidal materials further include a layer of a functionalizing agent that is on the coating. Without being bound by theory it is proposed that the functionalizing agent binds to the coated colloidal material through ionic covalent and or electrostatic interactions. In one preferred embodiment the functionalizing agent contains at least one functionality that can chemically bond ionically or covalently to the surface of the coated colloidal material. Preferably the functionality can be a carboxylic acid or a siloxane. Non limiting examples of siloxane functionalizing agents include alkyl trialkoxy silanes and aryl trialkoxy silanes. Specific examples of alkyl trialkoxy silanes include siloxane functionalizing agents having the general chemical formal of RSi OR wherein R has about 3 to about 24 carbon atoms and R has about 1 to about 6 carbon atoms. Non limiting examples include decyl triethoxy silane dodecyl triethoxy silane hexadecyl trimethoxy silane and octadecyl trimethoxy silane.

In various embodiments the functionalizing agent can have more than one functional group. The functional groups can be the same or different. The first functional group preferably is a carboxylic acid or a siloxane. The second functional group is preferably a halo alkoxy ketone ester carboxylic acid siloxane amine amide phosphate phosphite or phosphonate. Examples of functionalizing agents having two different functionalities include but are not limited to mercaptoalkyl trialkoxy silanes aminoalkyl trialkoxy silanes mercaptoaryl trialkoxy silanes aminoaryl trialkoxy silanes and aminoalkanoic acids. Some specific examples of functionalizing agents include amino acids aminoalkyl trialkoxy silanes wherein each alkyl or alkoxy group has about 1 to about 24 carbons and mercaptoalkyl trialkoxy silanes wherein each alkyl or alkoxy group has about 1 to about 24 carbons. One preferred functionalizing agent is 3 aminopropyl trimethoxy silane.

Yet another aspect of the invention is ordered colloidal materials. Ordered materials refer to self assembled or organized layers and structures of coated colloidal materials. Self assembled layers and structures are those layers and structures in which a disordered system of pre existing components forms an organized structure or pattern as a consequence of specific local interactions among the components themselves without external direction. The interactions can be controlled by preselecting the functionalizing agent for desired chemical physical properties. Moreover the physical properties can be preselected to make the coated colloidal material adaptable to techniques that can be used to prepare layers and structures. For example selecting octadecyl trimethoxy silane as a coating agent can yield an octadecyl coated colloidal material that is soluble in non polar solvents and is appreciably hydrophobic or is insoluble in water. Furthermore the octadecyl coated colloidal material can be deposited as a monolayer on a substrate by the Langmuir Blodgett technique. As defined herein the Langmuir Blodgett technique is a method of depositing monolayers of a material on a substrate such as a silicon wafer that comprises forming a film of the material on a liquid surface that the material is insoluble in and passing the substrate through the film and liquid surface. Additionally the Langmuir Blodgett technique can be used to form multilayers of a coated colloidal material or of combinations of a colloidal materials other materials and or materials amendable to the Langmuir Blodgett technique wherein the other material or materials can be coated colloidal material. Additional aspects of preparing and forming organized materials are readily available to one skilled in the art.

In still another embodiment the functionalizing agent can be a biomaterial and the resulting functionalized colloidal material has an attached biomaterial. By way of example polypeptides polynucleotides or other biomolecules can be attached directly to the coated colloidal material to a functionalized coated colloidal material or to a functionalizing agent prior to making mixing with a colloidal material. See International Patent Publication No. WO 2006 138145 incorporated herein for its disclosure of oligonucleotide attachment to nanoparticles. As used herein biomaterials refer to naturally occurring and synthetic biomaterials and can be proteins polypeptides peptides small molecules carbohydrates lipids polynucleotides and or oligonucleotides.

Biomaterials are useful in one aspect for delivery of the functionalized colloidal material to specific cell types and or organs as well as sub cellular locations. Accordingly biomaterials include without limitation nuclear localization signals NLS and peptide transduction domains including for example SV40 large T NLS HIV 1 TAT protein NLS adenovirus NLS integrin binding domain oligolysine each of which is described in Tkachenko et al. . 2004 15 482 490 and adenovirus fiber protein comprising both NLS and receptor mediated endocytosis RME domains Tkachenko et al. . 2003 125 4700 4701 .

Oligonucleotides that can be attached to a coated colloidal material include those which in one aspect modulate expression of a gene product expressed from a target polynucleotide. See International Patent Publication No. WO 2006 138145 incorporated herein for its disclosure of oligonucleotides and oligonucleotide features. Accordingly antisense oligonucleotides which hybridize to a target polynucleotide and inhibit translation siRNA oligonucleotides which hybridize to a target polynucleotide and initiate an RNAse activity for example RNAse H triple helix forming oligonucleotides which hybridize to double stranded polynucleotides and inhibit transcription and ribozymes which hybridize to a target polynucleotide and inhibit translation can be attached to the coated colloidal material.

The coated colloidal material functionalized with a biomaterial can be employed in therapeutic and or diagnostic applications. Applications include screening and identification of therapeutics and or antisense oligonucleotides diagnostic screening detection assaying and formation of triplex DNA.

In still another aspect of the invention the coated colloidal material can be used in detection assays such as the bio barcode assay. See U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 323 309 6 974 669 6 750 016 6 268 222 5 512 439 5 104 791 4 672 040 and 4 177 253 U.S. Publication Nos. 2001 0031469 2002 0146745 and 2004 0209376 and International Patent Publication No. WO 05 003394 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Non limiting examples of detection assays include immuno PCR assays enzyme linked immunosorbent assays Western blotting indirect fluorescent antibody tests change in solubility change in absorbance change in conductivity and change in Raman or IR spectroscopy. See e.g. Butler 21 2 3 165 209 2000 Herbrink et al. 2 1 19 1992 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 635 602 and 5 665 539 each of which is incorporated herein by reference .

In one aspect a detection assay involves an interaction between an analyte or target in a sample and the coated colloidal material that produces a change that can be detected i.e. a detection event. The detection event can be a change in fluorescence absorbance Raman scattering electrical properties light scattering solubility melting point cooperative melting transition or other physical or chemical properties of the analyte and or the functionalized coated colloidal material that can be detected by means available to one of skill in the art. For example see and showing an absorbance detection event corresponding to a cooperative melting transition. Often the detection event is indicative of an interaction for example a pairing or binding of the analyte and the functionalized coated colloidal material. Correspondingly known detection events will provide methods for assaying the structure and composition of analytes.

The following examples are provided to illustrate the invention but are not intended to limit the scope thereof. Silica coated silver nanoprisms were prepared by adding one milliliter mL of a 50 millimolar mM sodium borohydride solution in water to a cold water solution prepared by mixing 0.5 mL of a 20 mM silver nitrate solution with one mL of a 30 mM sodium citrate solution in 95 mL of water. Every two minutes for the course of fifteen minutes 5 6 drops of the a 50 mM sodium borohydride solution was added to the solution. Then one mL of the sodium borohydride solution and one mL of a five mM bis p sulphonatophenyl phenyl phosphine dehydrate dipotassium solution were added dropwise. The resulting solution was stirred for five hours then left undisturbed for twelve hours at 4 C. The pH of the solution was adjusted to 11 and the solution was irradiated with a 150 watt halogen lamp coupled with an optical bandpass filter center wavelength at 550 20 nm for 4 hours. Solids were collected by centrifugation then redispersed in a 0.3 mM sodium citrate solution. To the sodium citrate solution was added 16 mercaptohexadecanoic acid in ethanol until the concentration of 16 mercaptohexadecanoic acid reached 20 M. Solids were then collected by centrifugation and suspended in a solution of tetraethoxysilane and ethanol. By varying the tetraethoxysilane concentration for example from 0.5 mM to 0.75 mM to 1 mM then adding an aqueous solution of dimethylamine 20 wt. to a final concentration of 0.6 M silica coated silver nanoprisms with varying silica coating thicknesses were obtained. See .

The silica coated silver nanoprisms were then functionalized with octadecyl trimethoxy silane by adding a 10 mM solution of octadecyl trimethoxy silane in ethanol to the silica coated silver nanoprisms until a final concentration of 0.5 mM of octadecyl trimethoxy silane was achieved.

These functionalized silica coated silver nanoprisms were then deposited on a silicon wafer as an organized monolayer by the Langmuir Blodgett technique. The functionalized silica coated silver nanoprisms were dispersed in a solution containing 0.01 milligrams mL of polyvinylpyrrolidone MW 55 000 in chloroform. This dispersion was then added to an aqueous solution of polyvinylpyrrolidone 3.5 mg L . The chloroform was evaporated the remaining nanoprisms were compressed and a silicon wafer was dragged through the nanoprisms to yield a monolayer of the functionalized silica coated silver nanoprisms on the silicon wafer.

Alternatively the silica coated silver nanoprisms were then functionalized with 3 aminopropyltrimethoxysilane by adding 2 wt 3 aminopropyltrimethoxysilane to the nanoprisms. These prisms were sequentially washed with ethanol twice and then anhydrous dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO twice before being resuspended in a succinimidyl 4 p maleimidophenyl butyrate SMPB DMSO solution 1 mL 10 mM . The suspension was then washed with anhydrous DMSO 1 mL three times and twice with a coupling buffer 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer 0.2 M NaCl pH 7.0 .

The 3 aminopropyltrimethoxysilane functionalized silica coated silver nanoprisms were divided and separately treated with 10 M solutions of a DNA fragment with the formulation 3 SH A10 CCT AAT AAC AAT TTA SEQ ID NO 1 and a DNA fragment with the formulation 5 SH A10 ATC CTT ATC AAT SEQ ID NO 2 . These DNA functionalized nanoprisms were then washed a mixture of 0.15 M sodium phosphate buffer and 0.15 M NaCl at pH 8.0. Finally the DNA functionalized nanoprisms were suspended in sulfo NHS acetate 1 mL 10 mM washed with and then suspended in a solution of 10 mM sodium phosphate buffer and 0.2 M NaCl at pH 7.4. The DNA functionalized nanoprisms were then mixed together with a complimentary oligonucleotide in a 1 1 ratio where 10 pmol of 5 CGA TTA TTG TTA AAT ATT GAT AAG GAT 3 SEQ ID NO 3 was added yielding linked hybridized nanoprisms. Complimentary oligonucleotides are those oligonucleotides having sufficient nucleic acid base paring with the oligonucleotide attached to the functionalized colloidal material to form a paring applicable in a detection assay. The linked hybridized nanoprisms have a sharp cooperative melting transition that is applicable in a detection assay. See and .

The foregoing description is given for clearness of understanding only and no unnecessary limitations should be understood therefrom as modifications within the scope of the invention may be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art.

