---

title: Automated mobile intelligent call processing system
abstract: A system and method for providing enhanced information to a mobile telephone regarding a calling device is described. The system and method includes receiving an incoming call request at a mobile telephone including the identifier of the calling device. An information request is then formulated including the identifier of the calling device. The information request is transmitted from the mobile phone to the query processing center via a data communication channel. A response is then obtained from the data processing center and transmitted to the mobile phone via the data communication channel. The response received from the data processing center includes the requested information related to the calling device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08611874&OS=08611874&RS=08611874
owner: Neustar Information Services, Inc.
number: 08611874
owner_city: Sterling
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080826
---
This invention relates to mobile telephone services and to a system and method for providing enhanced information to mobile devices and to providing information regarding a calling party to a mobile telephone.

Since the beginning of civilization there has been an interest in acquiring information of human traffic to and from a territory. This is illustrated by watch towers peep holes in doors and other devices used to gather information on an unannounced caller for example. Over the last 50 years telephone networks have been used as a source of obtaining information about people. For example in the United States PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network has evolved from operators announcing callers to more automated systems like ANI automatic Number Identification Caller ID CNAM National Caller Name and CNAP Calling Name Presentation that provide information about a caller to a called party.

Wireless programmable communication devices such as mobile phones PDAs including Mobile PCs Black Berry s and iPhones are used in conjunction with communication networks to provide caller identification information for example telephone number IP address or e mail address. The caller identification information can be stored on a database for example address books of the wireless programmable communication devices. A network passed id of the caller device can be used to access the database stored on the mobile devices for accessing information on previous or known callers who can now be identified by name picture or other identifiers means that is less cryptic than the telephone number or the network address id of the caller device.

Several milestones in the telecommunications industry for example the breakup of AT T in 1984 further deregulation due to the Telecom Act of 1996 and the recent proliferation of multiple network types have resulted in a failure to provide adequate information about a calling party to a called party. Several new carriers and new service providers have evolved with varying technology and standards such that the information available to the called party about the calling party via their carrier or network provider is currently not always available and varies in quality.

Today from a practical perspective the information available to a called party related to a calling party is a function of both parties devices carriers service providers type of networks as well as the direct or indirect business relationship between the calling party s carrier service provider and the called party s carrier service provider.

Accordingly there is a need for a system method for a smart device with a network connection to identify a calling party that is independent of the information stored on their device and independent of information that that can only be licensed from their carrier and or network service provider.

The present invention includes methods apparatuses and systems as described in the written description and claims. In one embodiment a method for providing enhanced information to a mobile telephone regarding a calling device includes the steps of receiving an incoming call request at a mobile telephone including an identifier of the calling device e.g. telephone number . The method also includes formulating an information request including the telephone number or other identifier of the calling party or the calling device and transmitting the information request from the mobile telephone to a query processing center via a data communication channel. A response including the requested information is then received via a data communication channel at the mobile telephone. The requested information can include customized information related to the calling party or the calling device . In some embodiments the information related to the telephone number of the calling device may be displayed or stored on the mobile telephone.

In another embodiment a method of providing enhanced information to a mobile telephone regarding a calling device wherein the mobile telephone receives the telephone number of a calling device is described. The method includes receiving a request for information from a mobile telephone over a data communication channel where the request includes a telephone number of the calling device. The telephone number of the calling device can be used to access a database and obtain the requested information. The method also includes transmitting the requested information obtained to the mobile telephone via the data communication channel while the mobile telephone is connected to the calling device. In some embodiments the requested information can be associated with the calling party s telephone number via an algorithm that computes the location in memory of the requested information. The method can also include accessing a verification file or table to authenticate the source of the request.

Additionally a method for providing enhanced information to a mobile telephone regarding a calling party or calling device is described. The method includes the step of receiving an incoming call request at a mobile telephone including the telephone number of the calling device. The method also includes formulating an information request including the telephone number of the calling device and transmitting the information request from the mobile telephone to a query processing center via a data communication channel. The request for information is then received from the mobile telephone over the data communication channel. The telephone number of the calling device can be used to access a database and obtain the requested information. The requested information may include the customized information associated with the calling device. In addition the method includes transmitting the requested information obtained to the mobile telephone via the data communication channel while the mobile telephone is connected to the calling device. A response including the requested information is then received via a data communication channel at the mobile telephone.

In yet another embodiment an automated mobile intelligent call processing system is described. The system can include a storage device for storing telecommunications carrier independent records associated with multiple telephone numbers. The system also includes an information gateway module coupled to the storage device and configured to receive a request for information from a mobile telephone over a data communication channel. The request may include a telephone number of a calling device. An information application module may also be coupled to the storage device and to the information gateway module. The information application module may be configured to receive the telephone number from the information gateway module and to access the storage device to obtain the information requested. The requested information obtained from the storage device may include the customized information relating to the calling device. The system can also include a communication module coupled to the information application module and configured to transmit the requested information relating to the calling device via the data communication channel. The information gateway module can be further configured to access a verification table to authenticate the source of the request.

In addition a mobile device for providing enhanced information to a user regarding a calling device is described. The mobile device may include a telephony controller Application Programming Interface API module a data controller and a query module. The telephony controller receives an incoming call request from a calling device. The API module obtains notification of the incoming call request including the telephone number of the calling device. The API module can also forward the notification of the call. The call notification may include the telephone number of the calling device. The data controller establishes and maintains communication via a data communication channel. The query module may be coupled to the data controller and receives the notification from the API module formulates an information request including the telephone number of the calling device establishes a connection with the data controller to transmit the information request via a data communication channel. The query module also receives the obtained requested information via the data communication channel. The obtained requested information may include customized information related to the calling device. In some embodiments the mobile device may further include an information selector to define the type of information request to be sent. In other embodiments the mobile device may include a display selector to generate a user interface which receives user input to select options for displaying the obtained requested information.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become more readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art after reviewing the following detailed description and accompanying drawings.

After reading this description it will become apparent to one skilled in the art how to implement the invention in various alternative embodiments and alternative applications. Although various embodiments of the present invention are described herein it is understood that these embodiments are presented by way of example only and not limitation. As such this detailed description of various alternative embodiments should not be construed to limit the scope or breadth of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

In one aspect a system and method for providing enhanced information to a mobile device is provided. is a high level network diagram illustrating an example communication system according to an embodiment. In general one embodiment of the wireless system includes a mobile or wireless device a calling device a network a query server a wireless base station and storage device . The mobile device communicates with the query server via a wireless base station and a network . The network can be a combination of multiple communication networks.

The mobile device can be any sort of device with the ability to communicate within the wireless communication network . The mobile device may also include a persistent storage area. For example the mobile device may be a cell phone a personal digital assistant PDA a portable computer with wireless connectivity e.g. a laptop computer or any other device configured for wireless communication. Calling device can be any sort of device with the ability to communicate within the communication network and initiate a call with the mobile device . For example the calling device can be a mobile device a wired computer or a plain old telephone.

The mobile device and the wireless base station can communicate by sending packets of information back and forth. Communications between the mobile device and the wireless base station can be governed by one or more protocols or standards such as Personal Communication Services PCS Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wireless Fidelity WiFi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Bluetooth Voice Over Internet Protocol VOIP Wireless VOIP Session Initiation Protocol SIP and other future protocols or standards for example Long Term Evolution LTE . In one embodiment the mobile device has the ability to communicate over a telephony channel or voice communication channel and a data communication channel at the same time. In some embodiments a single network can be utilized to carry voice and data information. Thus the mobile device can communicate both voice and data information over the single network at the same time.

Query server can be implemented as a single computer or as a plurality of servers logically arranged. The multiple servers can be located in different locations and may support multiple protocols such as an ASCII GET data protocol SS7 protocol web services protocol Voice Over Internet Protocol VOIP Wireless VOIP Session Initiation Protocol SIP and other protocols. In the illustrated embodiment query server is coupled with a data storage area or system . The function of the query server is preferably to receive requests or queries from the mobile device and respond to those requests or queries by providing the mobile device with information.

In one embodiment the mobile device receives a call from the calling device . The call is transmitted and processed by the network for example a telecommunications network including a Local Exchange Carrier LEC network and Long Distance Carrier LDC network. When the call is initiated by the calling device the calling device identification information or source identification number for example the caller s telephone number can be determined by the network . The caller s telephone number can be determined through a process called Automatic Number Identification ANI which the network for example a telecommunications network automatically performs when a caller initiates a call.

The mobile device receives a call signal or call initiation signal from base station which includes the calling device identification information or number e.g. telephone number . The mobile device then transmits a query to the query server . The query includes the calling device identification information or identifier. In response the query server processes the query and transmits information to the mobile device . The information received by the mobile device can be displayed on the mobile device . The information transmitted by the query server can be for example the caller s name. In an embodiment the information is received before the call is answered at the mobile device .

In some embodiments the mobile device can be coupled to the network via both a voice communication channel and a data communication channel. In those embodiments the network can include a telephony network and the internet. The voice communication channel can be a channel i.e. a communication link or circuit suitable for the transmission of speech data such as a cellular telephone communication channel. The data communication channel can be a communication channel or circuit provided for the exchange of data. The mobile device can communicate with the query server via the data communication channel. In some embodiments the query server has no connection to the voice communication channels. Thus the incoming call may be received via a telecommunications network and a query or request from the mobile device can be transmitted over a second network link for example the data communication channel including the internet to the query server . In other embodiments the mobile device can use a single network to carry voice and data.

It should be noted that many components that are included in the elements of and the subsequent figures have been omitted to make the descriptions more clear. One will note that these omitted elements such as additional base stations networks processors network ports memories buses transceivers etc. would be included in such elements in a manner that is commonly known to those skilled in the art.

The telephony controller includes a telephony transceiver and a telephony driver . The telephony transceiver in combination with the telephony driver handle typical cellular telephone functions including for example registration call set up and hand off. The data controller includes a data transceiver and a data channel driver . The data transceiver in combination with the data channel driver handle data communication functions. For example the functions associated with establishing and using a WiMAX or WiFi network for internet access. The API module provides an interface for applications such as the ECIM to interact with low level functions such as hardware drivers e.g. telephony driver and the data channel driver . The API module or functionality can be provided by a mobile operating system for example Windows Mobile 5.0 a BREW binary runtime environment for wireless JAVA Linux Microsoft Mobile or other API and may use features and functions available on the mobile device not available through such API s .

The ECIM receives notification from the API module when a request for an incoming call is received by the telephony controller . The ECIM also generates an information request as will be described in more detail below. The ECIM can be a plug in application that is downloaded to the mobile device from a website for example. The website can be provided by the query server or a separate server. The plug in application can be downloaded wirelessly or via a personal computer PC for example.

The display selector module selectably determines whether information received at the ECIM is displayed or stored by the mobile device . The display selector generates a user interface which receives user input to select options for displaying and or storing obtained requested information. For example a user may select to display only portions of the requested information received at the ECIM to display the entire information received or to save the received information in memory.

The information selector module defines the type of information request to be sent. In one embodiment the information selection module generates a user interface which receives user input to select options for the type of information to be requested. In other embodiments the selection is made when the ECIM is downloaded to the mobile device . The user can select to request at least a portion of information relating to the calling device for example or decline such a request as a call is being received. That allows a user to decide for which incoming call to request information.

The storage device stores information relating to caller devices and users of caller devices . For example the storage device can include a list of names indexed by telephone numbers. In one embodiment the information is telecommunications carrier independent records. In one embodiment the calling device identification number includes a telephone number of the calling device . The database or storage device may include a virtual telephone number database including a master list of telephone numbers with thousands of attribute data items. The database or storage device may be updated frequently by querying for example the SS7 network for wireless telephone numbers from wireless carriers.

The information gateway module can be coupled to the storage device and configured to receive a query or request for information from devices such as the mobile device over a data communication channel. The query or request for information can include a calling device identification number or identifier for example telephone number of the calling device an indication of the information requested and an identifier of the requesting party. The information gateway module authenticates the requester of information and can also perform billing functions such as tracking requests by customer or subscriber. In one embodiment the information gateway module authenticates the requester by accessing a verification file or table to validate the requester. The verification table may include a list of telephone numbers and names associated with the requester where the requester is for example a mobile device and or subscriber.

The information application module is coupled to the information gateway module and receives the calling device identification number of the calling device from the information gateway module . The information application module accesses the records in the storage device using the calling device identification number to obtain the requested information pertaining to the calling device or the calling party. In some embodiments the calling device identification number is associated with the requested information via an algorithm that uses the calling device identification number to compute the location in memory of requested information in the storage device.

The communication module is coupled to the information application module and transmits the requested information data pertaining to the calling device via the data communication channel. Alternatively the response to the request can be sent as a short message service SMS communications protocol message that allows the interchange of short text messages between mobile devices or an email. The response to the request can also be sent as a VOIP Wireless VOIP Session Initiation Protocol SIP etc. In some embodiments a single network can be utilized to carry voice and data information. Thus the voice communication can be received over the single network and the request for information and response can also be transmitted and received by the mobile device over the single network.

At step the process starts with receiving an incoming call request at the mobile device including the telephone number or identifier of the calling device. The calling party may initiate the call from the calling device illustrated in above. When the call is received at the mobile device illustrated in the ECIM is notified of the call by the API module . The notification may include forwarding the telephone number of the calling device to the ECIM .

The process then continues to step where an information request is formulated including the telephone number of the calling device. In some embodiments the information selector module can prompt the user to select between several options including whether to request information or to specify the type of information desired by the user in relation to the calling device before the query is completed. Thus a user may select to request the name or email of the calling party and not the address of the calling party for example. The request may include a user identifier or license ID a request ID a service key and a return network address. The return network address can include for example a phone number or an internet protocol address. The service key may be the calling device identification number. The user or license ID may be linked to the calling device identification number or network address of the mobile device that may be obtained during a registration process. The user or license ID may be included as part of a downloadable plug in ECIM application. The number of queries afforded to a user may be limited by the license available to the user. For example the license may be limited based on how many queries a user can make during the license period or may have duration constraints.

In step the request from the mobile telephone is transmitted to a query processing center via the data communication channel. The query processing center includes a query server illustrated in above for processing the request and obtaining a response. At step the request is received at the query processing center. The process then continues to step where the telephone number of the calling device is used to access the database or storage device to verify the user s license and to obtain the requested information. The information obtained being the requested information pertaining or relating to the calling device. In step the requested information obtained from the database is transmitted to the mobile phone via the data communication channel or by SMS or email . In step the requested information is received by the ECIM . In one embodiment the user can accept or reject the call based on the information received in step .

Those of skill will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition the grouping of functions within a module block or step is for ease of description. Specific functions or steps can be moved from one module or block without departing from the invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks and modules described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can reside in an ASIC.

The above description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles described herein can be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is to be understood that the description and drawings presented herein represent a presently preferred embodiment of the invention and are therefore representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by the present invention. It is further understood that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other embodiments that may become obvious to those skilled in the art and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly limited by nothing other than the appended claims.

