---

title: Bias-reduced fiber optic gyroscope with polarizing fibers
abstract: A fiber optic gyroscope includes a light source, a coupler coupled to the light source, a photodetector coupled to the coupler, an integrated optic circuit (IOC) coupled to the coupler by a first element, and a sensing loop coupled to the IOC by second and third elements. At least one of the first, second and third elements includes a polarizing element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07973938&OS=07973938&RS=07973938
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 07973938
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080924
---
This invention was made with United States Government support under Government Contract No. N00030 08 C 0010. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

In a fiber optic gyroscope Sagnac phase for rotation rate sensing is determined by measuring the intensity of interfering lightwaves traveling through an identical optical path of a fiber loop in opposite directions e.g. the clockwise CW and counterclockwise CCW directions . Such an identical optical path involves a reciprocal path from both spatial and polarization mode points of view. The correct Sagnac phase is measured only when the CW and CCW travelling lightwaves travel in the same polarization state while within the same sections of loop fibers. The so called polarization errors occur if such lightwaves travel in different polarization modes while within the same section of loop fibers.

Conventional single mode optical fibers either polarization maintaining PM or non polarization maintaining normally support two polarization modes. Due to cross couplings at fiber splices and birefringence disturbance in the fiber there is always energy exchange between the two polarization modes. Interference of polarization cross coupled lightwaves with the primary lightwaves or with other cross coupled lightwaves introduces error signals that do not carry the correct phase information for rotation sensing and thus must be avoided and reduced.

From the standpoint of reducing polarization error PM fiber sensing coil is preferable due to smaller polarization mode cross couplings in the fiber. However even PM fibers are susceptible to non zero cross couplings due to micro bending and non uniform stress built into the fiber during the manufacturing process. The strength of these cross couplings is typically characterized by an h parameter. PM fiber coil with large value of h parameter may result in larger polarization errors that degrade the gyroscope bias performance.

In a depolarized gyroscope non polarization maintaining single mode SM fiber is used for cost reduction and or improved resistance to radiation. There are ways to design the optical circuit so that the polarization errors are reduced to a relatively low level. Still most of these methods require high polarization extinction ratio PER of the integrated optical circuit IOC or of a polarizer in case an IOC is not used because all of the polarization errors are proportional to either or higher orders of same. However in many cases the PER of an IOC or of a single polarizer is not high enough and the polarization error may not be small enough for certain applications of the gyroscope.

Referring to apparatus is a typical prior art interferometric fiber optic gyroscope that includes a broadband light source a directional coupler a photodetector an integrated optic circuit IOC a sensing loop and fiber sections and that connect the IOC to the coupler and the sensing loop. The sensing loop may include a polarization maintaining PM fiber coil or non PM single mode SM fiber coil. The IOC includes a Y shape waveguide which splits the input lightwaves into substantially equal parts at junction a polarizer and electrodes for phase modulation. In one typical configuration the IOC waveguide may be the polarizing element instead of containing the polarizer . The fiber sections and may be Lyot type depolarizers each including two PM fiber sections with their birefringent axes oriented 45 with respect to each other. In these prior art apparatuses the only polarizing PZ element is often the IOC . They may not have high enough PER to reduce polarizations errors below required level.

In an embodiment a fiber optic gyroscope includes a light source a coupler coupled to the light source a photodetector coupled to the coupler an integrated optic circuit IOC coupled to the coupler by a first element and a sensing loop coupled to the IOC by second and third elements. At least one of the first second and third elements includes a polarizing element.

An embodiment pertains to interferometric fiber optic gyroscopes IFOGs and more particularly the embodiments of the present invention pertain to design approaches for reducing polarization errors by using polarizing elements in gyroscope optical circuits.

With the development and availability of compact polarizing components such as polarizing fibers having small internal polarization cross couplings and high polarization extinction ratios it is advantageous to use these additional polarizing elements in certain sections of the optical circuit or even in the sensing coil of a gyroscope to reduce polarization errors.

Embodiments of the invention present several approaches to reduce polarization error by using polarizing elements in certain sections of the optical circuit of gyroscopes. An embodiment of a fiber optic gyroscope includes a light source an optical directional coupler an integrated optical circuit IOC typically having one input port and two output ports a sensing loop and at least one polarizing element between the optical coupler and the IOC input port and or at least one polarizing element between the loop and the IOC output ports. The polarizing elements are preferably polarizing fibers having a high polarization extinction ratio. In another embodiment the polarizing fiber may also be used as the sensing coil fiber.

Adding additional polarizing elements in concatenation with an IOC is advantageous to increase the rejection of unwanted polarization modes. Alternatively this approach allows significant relaxation of the performance requirements of many optical elements such as IOC PER IOC pigtail misalignment splice polarization misalignments coil birefringence or h parameter coupler polarization dependent loss PDL depolarizer fiber length etc. to meet a specific gyro bias stability requirement.

The directional coupler may be a fused fiber coupler micro optic coupler lapped coupler or optical circulator or equivalent device. Light waves from the broadband light source passing through the directional coupler are subsequently polarized by the polarizing element before being coupled into the IOC . Polarizing element may be a fiber coupled optical polarizer or equivalent device that substantially transmits light of one polarization while strongly suppressing the orthogonal polarization. The IOC has an input port disposed toward light source and two output ports disposed toward loop . Light waves entering the input port of IOC are split into two substantially equal parts at junction one propagates in the clockwise CW direction through the loop and the other propagates in the counter clockwise CCW direction through the loop . Loop may be a non PM single mode SM fiber having leads and coupled to a depolarizer . Depolarizer includes an upper section and a lower section . The upper section includes PM fiber segments and the optical axes of which are aligned substantially close to 45 at splice . The lower section includes PM fiber segments and the optical axes of which are aligned substantially close to 45 at splice . The polarization axes of PM fiber and are aligned substantially close to 0 with respect to the pass axes of IOC waveguides at output port splices and . After propagating through the loop and the depolarizer the CW and CCW lightwaves combine at joint and exit the IOC input port. The exiting lightwaves pass through the polarizing element and the coupler before reaching the photo detector .

The IOC may include a LiNbO3 crystal substrate having polarizing waveguides that guide one polarization mode polarized along a pass axis and substantially rejects the other polarization mode polarized along a reject axis. The pass axis of the polarizing element in the illustrated embodiment is aligned with the IOC pass axis. The added polarization discrimination by element is advantageous to reduce the gyroscope polarization error. This can be clearly seen from the modeling results shown in . In a relative scale 1 represents original bias error without polarizing element the dashed line in indicates that bias error decreases monotonically with the PER of element . In this embodiment the use of a bulk polarizing component may introduce new cross coupling points of and at connection points to pigtail fibers. Since polarization errors are sensitive to these cross couplings in the optical circuit the extra cross couplings of and may offset a certain amount of benefit provided by the polarizing element . This effect is shown by the dashed line in with a larger than 1.0 relative bias error when PER is zero and non zero cross couplings at and are assumed.

An alternative and possibly improved embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in . A depolarized gyroscope incorporates a polarizing fiber instead of a bulk polarizing element between the coupler and the input port of an IOC . Polarizing fibers such as fiber function to transmit light of one polarization while strongly suppressing the orthogonal polarization. The IOC input pigtail may be either a polarizing fiber or a non polarizing PM fiber. However selecting IOC input pigtail to be the same type of polarizing fiber as fiber is preferred because smaller cross coupling at splice can be achievable due to easier splicing of the same type of fibers. In the embodiment illustrated in polarizing fiber has no or very small internal cross coupling points and does not introduce additional polarization errors. The impact of the polarizing fiber PER on the bias performance is shown by the solid line in . Compared to the dashed line for the previously described embodiment using a bulk polarizing element the steeper dependence of bias versus PER and smaller bias error at PER O indicate that polarizing fiber may be advantageous in reducing polarization errors. In addition since no extra bulk component is introduced into the gyro optical circuit this embodiment may be more compact and economic.

However the functional difference of a polarizing fiber and a bulk polarizing element may not be significant particularly if the internal cross couplings of the latter are very small e.g. smaller than 30 dB . For generality of the description of embodiments of the present invention it should be noted that the term polarizing element can refer to either a polarizing fiber such as polarizing fiber or a bulk polarizing element such as element . Polarizing fiber should be considered replaceable by other polarizing elements if not mentioned explicitly.

An alternative embodiment of a depolarized fiber optic gyroscope incorporating polarizing fibers is shown in . This embodiment includes polarizing fibers on at least one of the IOC output port pigtails and or instead of one or more input fibers as described with reference to the embodiment illustrated in . In the embodiment of sections and may be non polarizing PM fibers the optical axes of which are aligned substantially close to 45 at splice and with respect to polarizing fibers and . The effects of polarizing fiber section and or on gyroscope bias performance are plotted in . To distinguish the effects of each polarizing section two curves are plotted. The solid curve with circular symbols represents the case wherein both fiber sections and are polarizing fibers. The dashed curve with square symbols represents the case wherein only fiber section or section is a polarizing fiber. It has been found that the PER of 20 dB of two PZ sections can provide a factor of reduction of polarization error. If only the section or is polarizing the reduction of bias is less significant.

An alternative embodiment gyroscope includes polarizing fiber sections on both the IOC input section and output pigtails sections as shown in . The combined polarizing effect from this configuration can be more significant than is the case with the previously described embodiments.

It is worth noting that the choice of where to position polarizing elements in the gyroscope optical circuit should be made with care. For example placing a polarizing element between the light source and the coupler may cause large polarization errors. is a plot of modeled bias error versus the PER for a gyro with such an incorrectly placed polarizing element. It seems clear that polarizing the light source upstream of the coupler in a depolarized gyroscope can be disadvantageous. Similarly it may be disadvantageous to use a polarizing directional coupler in place of the non polarizing coupler because polarization errors could be significantly increased as a result of incorrect placement of the polarizing element.

Principles of an embodiment of the invention can be applied to PM gyroscopes as well. Simulation shows that it may be advantageous to insert at least one additional polarizing element into a PM fiber optic gyroscope when the IOC PER does not exceed a specific value. Referring to apparatus is an embodiment of a PM gyroscope with a polarizing fiber as the IOC input port pigtail fiber. In this embodiment is a PM fiber coil and are normal PM fibers. The birefringence axes of PM PZ fibers and IOC waveguides at splices and may all be substantially close to 0 with respect to each other to minimize polarization cross coupling. Although the crosscoupling at cannot be avoided the overall reduction of polarization errors can still be significant if the PER of the polarizing fiber is high enough.

Referring to apparatus is an alternative embodiment of the present invention incorporating polarizing fiber to reduce polarization errors. In this embodiment the entire sensing coil and the fiber sections and or are polarizing fibers. IOC input pigtail fiber may also be the same type or other polarizing fiber. In this configuration spurious light of the unwanted polarization mode may be reduced to a significantly lower value. The requirement of IOC PER can thus be significantly relaxed.

While a preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described as noted above many changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is not limited by the disclosure of the preferred embodiment. Instead the invention should be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow.

