---

title: System and method for providing dispute resolution for electronic payment transactions
abstract: A computer-based system and method for resolving disputes between a customer and an electronic payment provider concerning an electronic transaction between the customer and a merchant, including receiving data related to the transaction in a computer; transmitting the data from the computer to a dispute resolution server; comparing the transaction data to predetermined eligibility criteria for dispute resolution in the dispute resolution server, and if the dispute resolution criteria is met, declining future transactions from the merchant for the disputing consumer; and, comparing the transaction data to predetermined eligibility criteria for transaction credit, and if the credit criteria is met, and transmitting a credit instruction for the transaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07941352&OS=07941352&RS=07941352
owner: Verifi, Inc.
number: 07941352
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081223
---
This invention generally relates to a method and system for providing dispute resolution for credit card or other electronic payment transactions including but not limited to debit card ACH eCheck LEC transactions etc. More specifically the invention provides a method and system for allowing card issuers or other electronic payment provider to automatically remove cardholders or other purchasers from recurring payment programs and to issue credits to cardholders for disputed credit card transactions if appropriate transaction parameters are satisfied and to decline such credit requests when the transaction parameters are not satisfied.

Credit cards and other payment instruments such as debit cards and check cards are widely used by holders to purchase goods and services in the marketplace. It is projected that at least 35 of all U.S. cardholder payments in 2007 will be made via plastic i.e. a credit or debit card and it is estimated that this rate will increase to at least 49 by 2010. The current annual value of these transactions exceeds 400 billion dollars. While credit card transactions are convenient for cardholders they present a special set of problems for merchants and credit card issuers. One such problem occurs when a cardholder disputes a credit card transaction necessitating the expenditure of substantial time and resources in investigating and resolving such disputes.

Cardholders and other purchasers using an electronic payment provider are increasingly going directly to their card issuer to resolve billing disputes rather than contacting the merchant directly. This trend toward chargebacks that are initiated with out any prior contact with the merchant by the cardholder results in inefficient resolution of such disputes because when the merchant is not directly involved in the resolution process the card issuer must undertake the resolution activities on behalf of the merchant thus increasing the complexity time and expense of the resolution process.

To understand the problem presented by credit card and other electronic payment provider transaction disputes a brief overview of the electronic payment provider process is required. Credit cards are provided to a cardholder by an issuing bank. When a cardholder enters into a transaction with a merchant using the credit card the issuing bank commits to pay the merchant at the time the transaction is verified.

Each month the credit card user is sent a statement documenting the purchases made with the card and the total balance owed. According to the Fair Credit Billing Act the cardholder can dispute any charges on the statement that he or she thinks are incorrect. The cardholder may or may not have contacted the merchant about remedying the situation before contacting the issuing bank.

The chargeback process varies somewhat from credit card company to credit card company but generally follows the sequence shown in . At step a credit card holder disputes a transaction with their issuing bank. At step the issuing bank investigates to determine whether the chargeback request is valid and if it is not denies the chargeback. At step a provisional credit representing the amount charged is placed back in the user s account. At step the issuing bank initiates a chargeback process and obtains credit representing the chargeback purchase from the merchant s bank. At step the merchant s bank investigates the chargeback request to determine if it is valid and if not the chargeback is returned to the issuing bank. If the merchant s bank determines the chargeback is valid at step the chargeback amount is removed from the merchant s bank account and the merchant s bank provides written notice to the merchant. At step the merchant is given an opportunity to refute the chargeback and if its documentation is satisfactory the chargeback is declined and the cardholder is once again charged for the sale. If the chargeback is not declined the chargeback is successful and the process is completed.

The present invention provides a card issuer or other electronic payment provider with a system and method for obtaining a quick favorable and efficient resolution to the customers disputes with merchants thus reducing operating expenses while providing superior customer service. The present invention may also be used simultaneously with one or more of various types of electronic payments offered by card issuers or other electronic payment providers such as credit card debit card ACH eCheck mobile payments LEC etc. transactions and with one or more payment brands or networks within each type of electronic payment transactions such as within credit card electronic payment transactions providing simultaneous use with Visa MC Amex Discover and JCB card transactions. The present invention thus provides multiple connectivity to a plurality of various types of electronic payment networks such as credit card debit card ACH eCheck mobile payments LEC etc. and with one or more payment brands or networks within each type of electronic payment transactions.

The present invention allows issuers to obtain a quick turnaround in cardholder credit processing with minimal resource expenditure. For recurring payment program merchants cardholders are removed from the recurring payment program which prevents submission of future authorization requests thus eliminating the potential for future disputes. The present invention thereby significantly reduces the time and cost required for the card issuer to resolve cardholder transaction disputes while delivering a favorable resolution to the cardholder.

In one preferred embodiment shown in the system and method of the present invention are illustrated. The payment instrument holder initiates a notice of dispute to the card issuer and submits the necessary transaction information by internet mail fax email in person via SMS mobile text mobile phone or by telephone through the touchtone keypad of the phone or by responding orally wherein the system utilizes voice recognition software IVR to convert voice data into computer readable data.

The card issuer or device associated with the card issuer terminal such as a scanner or IVR system inputs the transaction information into the card issuer terminal for processing by the card issuer processing system.

The card issuer processing system sends a queue of eligible transactions to the dispute resolution system server for processing. This request includes the transaction data that is required for adjudication of the dispute regarding the transaction such as credit card number transaction amount transaction date and merchant identification. The dispute resolution system determines if the transaction qualifies for resolution under the system and if so directs the issuance of the credit to the cardholder for the transaction cancels the transaction and sends reports of the results of the dispute resolution to the card issuer and the originating merchant. The present invention may be used with multiple card types card issuers merchants and payment types such as ACH mobile payments LEC billing etc.

In the following description certain specific details of programming software modules user selections network transactions database queries database structures etc. are provided for a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. However those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc.

In some cases well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail in order to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention. Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

As shown in the system of the present invention preferably includes a dispute resolution server which is linked to a card issuer s computer processing system by an application programming interface on the card issuer s computer system. The interface obtains transaction details necessary to implement the dispute resolution process including credit card number credit card expiration date cardholder name and address transaction amount and merchant identification such as merchant name phone number URL or merchant acquirer bank identification.

The interface is connected to the dispute resolution server by a data transmission link such as the Internet or other electronic file transfer protocols such as FTP SFTP FTPS HTTP HTTPS TELNET SSH XML REST or JSON as examples.

The interface preferably is connected to the dispute resolution server by data transmission link such as the Internet telephone line or network cable. The interface may transfer transaction data to the server in batch files or by single transaction record using electronic file transfer protocols such as FTP SFTP FTPS HTTP HTTPS TELNET SSH XML REST or JSON as examples. Either nighttime batch file transfer or real time transfer by API may be used for these files.

Alternatively the system of the present invention may be operated on the card issuer s computer which is connected via the Internet or other communication network to the dispute resolution program server .

As shown in the cardholder initiating the dispute may submit the relevant information to the card issuer by telephone fax or by e mail SMS on line or other electronic medium using a computer or mobile device such as cellular telephone standard landline PDA or pager. The cardholder may alternatively submit the dispute information by mail or in person communication.

The cardholder is equipped with a processing device such as a PC or laptop which is programmed to receive and process data related to disputed transactions. The dispute data may be input into appropriate electronic format manually by the card issuer s employee using an input device such as a keyboard or mouse or it may be converted directly from the cardholder s input by IVR in the case of a telephone notice by OCR in the case of a mail or fax notice or directly from electronic input in the case of on line submissions.

The card issuer processing device preferably transmits a batch file containing one or more dispute items to the dispute resolution system server via one of the previously described data transmission links and electronic file transfer protocols. The dispute resolution system will process the file and return a response back to the card issuer processing device via the same link and format to confirm receipt of the file.

The dispute resolution system will also generate a response concerning the disputed transaction to the originating merchant s processing device via previously described data transmission links and electronic file transfer protocols. The dispute resolution system server also serves as the payment processing system for the merchant. Thus in the capacity of payment processing system for the merchant the dispute resolution system server receives transactions from the merchant forwards received transactions to acquirers and stores transaction data. As is known in the art acquirer is a merchant s acquiring bank which is a banking or financial institution which provides the merchant with a merchant processing account for the processing of electronic transactions originating from the merchant s customers. The acquirer sends transaction information to the payment networks such as Visa MC Amex Discover and JCB which connect the Issuer and the Acquirer and provide a clearing and settlement service to transfer payment information between the Issuer and the Acquirer. Because the dispute resolution system server also serves as the payment processing system for the merchant the present invention offers the advantage of immediately declining future transactions from the merchant for the disputing consumer including terminating ongoing recurring transactions. This prevents the recurrence of such disputed transactions while the dispute relating to the current disputed transaction is resolved.

As shown in the process begins at step with the cardholder initiating the dispute by providing notice of the dispute to the card issuer. The cardholder may submit the dispute to the issuer by telephone mail fax e mail or on line. On line submissions may be facilitated by the card issuer in the provision of a link in an on line statement provided to the cardholder of a pop up form. This link may connect the cardholder to the card issuer s processing system or alternatively directly to the merchant with whom the transaction was initiated. This latter alternative allows the cardholder to mediate the dispute directly with the merchant.

Once the chargeback dispute template is completed by the cardholder they can select the submit button and the system will use the template to generate a standard charge dispute form which includes all the necessary information to dispute a charge.

At step the card issuer inputs the data relating to the notice of dispute received from the card issuer. The dispute data includes such information regarding the transaction such as 

At step upon receipt of the dispute notification the Issuer processor determines whether the dispute is eligible for processing by the Dispute Resolution System by matching the disputed transaction details extracted by the Issuer from interchange data against a table of identifiers for participating merchants provided by the Dispute Resolution System. The table may be periodically updated by a data transmission preferably by secure batch file transmission such as FTPS FTP over SSL although other types of file transmission may be used such as e mail of Excel spreadsheet files or physical transfer of electronic storage media including DVD or CD ROM.

Preferably at steps and the card issuer system also screens disputes for ineligible transactions based on the predetermined transaction level eligibility requirements such as whether the transaction was previously refunded or refunded by the merchant and or the dispute resolution system provider at step whether the transaction has a Central Processing Date CPD greater than a predetermined interval such as 120 days from the date of the dispute resolution system dispute request at step and whether the transaction originated with a merchant who receives chargeback protection as chargeback rights do not exist for the card Issuer against the merchant in such case in step . As may be appreciated by one skilled in the art the eligibility criteria which are tested at steps and may vary for different card issuers depending upon their specific preferences. For example eligibility criteria may also be determined according to the identity of the originating merchant depending upon the Card Issuer s preference. Further whether the transaction has a Central Processing Date CPD greater than a predetermined maximum interval such as 120 days from the date of the dispute resolution system dispute request may also be used to determine eligibility. As may be understood by persons of ordinary skill in the art the 120 day maximum interval from the date of the transaction to the date of the dispute resolution system dispute request is offered only as an example and this interval may be adjusted as desired by the Card Issuer.

At step disputes which return a match when referencing the merchant eligibility table and which do not violate the transaction level criteria are flagged as Dispute Resolution System eligible and sorted into a separate queue within the Issuer s system prior to processing by the Dispute Resolution System. The Dispute Resolution System request file is generated and supplied by the Issuer as specified below and transmitted via internet for Dispute Resolution System processing.

The request file contains a Dispute Reason Code which specifies the basis for the transaction dispute. The following exemplar predefined Dispute Reason Codes have been recognized by two major card networks 

Alternatively at step those disputes which return no match with the qualifying merchant identification descriptors in the table or which violate the transaction level criteria are flagged to be processed via the Issuer s conventional dispute resolution procedures.

Once a predetermined number of eligible dispute records or on a predetermined interval the card issuer system transmits a batch file containing one or more dispute items to a file transfer system such as FTPS. At step the dispute resolution system will then pick up the file remove the file from the FTPS system and load the file into the dispute resolution system. In the subsequent steps the dispute resolution system will process the file and return a response back to a location on the FTPS system.

At step the dispute resolution system processor confirms whether the dispute is eligible for processing by the Dispute Resolution System transactions by matching the merchant identification descriptor from the disputed transaction against the table of identifiers for participating merchants.

At step the dispute resolution system processor determines whether the transaction is eligible for the dispute resolution system processing. This eligibility is determined by attempting to match the dispute request transaction details against the records in the sales transaction database. This sales transaction database represents transactions initiated with the participating merchants so that if appropriate a refund may be issued to the cardholder from the merchant. As illustrated at step in the sales transaction database may be populated with data relating to transactions from participating merchants which transactions were originally processed through the dispute resolution system processor . Thus only those transactions which were processed through the dispute resolution system processor transaction gateway are eligible for the dispute resolution system processing and are selected in step . Optionally the sales transaction database can be populated with bulk file transfers of data representing transactions initiated with the participating merchants. This data may be provided by the merchants themselves or from acquirers card associations or other entities. Thus by attempting to match the dispute request transaction details against the eligible sales transaction database eligibility for dispute resolution system processing can be determined so that only those transactions for which there is the ability to issue a refund to the cardholder from the merchant are processed in the Dispute Resolution System.

At step dispute requests for transactions which return a match when referencing the merchant eligibility table and which match against the records in the sales transaction database as originally processed through the dispute resolution system are tagged as Unresolved and queued for further processing by the Dispute Resolution System. The dispute requests are identified according to the following table 

Alternatively at step those disputes which return no match with the qualifying merchant identification descriptors in the table or which were not originally processed through the dispute resolution system are tagged as unmatched and at step are forwarded for manual review to determine the reason for the failed credit transaction invalid account number account closed previously charged back etc. .

At step the card accounts that are subject to the credit determination are flagged for cancellation of future authorizations and subscriptions so that future authorizations from the merchant for the disputing cardholder are blocked at the gateway level and the cardholder s subscription is cancelled. This prevents further use of the card for goods or services provided by the selling merchant until the dispute has been satisfactorily resolved.

At steps and the card issuer System confirms that the transaction is eligible for dispute resolution system based on the predetermined transaction level eligibility requirements such as whether the transaction was previously refunded or refunded by the merchant and or the dispute resolution system provider at step whether the transaction has a Central Processing Date CPD greater than 120 days from the date of the dispute resolution system dispute request at step and whether the transaction originated with a merchant who receives chargeback protection as chargeback rights do not exist for the card Issuer against the merchant in such case in step .

At step eligible credit transactions are processed through credit card payment gateways such that if the dispute is determined to be valid the original sales transaction is rescinded and the cardholder s account is credited in the amount of the disputed purchase.

Alternatively at step those disputes which are determined to be ineligible for dispute resolution system based on the predetermined transaction level eligibility requirements are flagged to undergo a manual review at step to determine the reason for the failure to meet eligibility requirements such invalid account number account closed previously charged back etc. .

At step a determination as to whether the original sales transaction is credited by a response from the interchange system that the credit was processed and at step successful credit disputes result in the Dispute Resolution System request status being updated to Resolved w Credit. 

At step unsuccessful credit disputes are identified to undergo a manual review at step to determine the reason for the failed credit transaction invalid account number account closed previously charged back etc. .

At step the Dispute Resolution System record status for the transaction is updated to Resolved w Out Credit and the description for the credit request failure is included in response file.

Alternatively at step for successful credit transactions the status in the Dispute Resolution System record is updated to Resolved with Credit. 

At step for both the successful credit transactions and unsuccessful credits transactions the response file containing updated information for all Dispute Resolution System request records is compiled and transmitted to the card issuer and the merchant with the appropriate disposition for each transaction Resolved w credit Resolved w o credit Unmatched etc. The response file may be made available to the card issuer and the merchant by an on demand web portal for downloading at the convenience of the card issuer and the merchant.

The Dispute Resolution System response file is transmitted to the Issuer as specified below upon processing the transaction level matching against the Dispute Resolution System request file.

The Response code in the above table of the Dispute Resolution System Issuer Response File corresponds to the values in the following table.

At step the dispute is confirmed to have been resolved and an acknowledgement of receipt of files by the card issuer may be transmitted to the dispute resolution system to confirm the resolution by the card issuer.

Thus the present invention provides a system for resolving disputes between a customer and an electronic payment provider concerning an electronic transaction between the customer and a merchant including a computer programmed to receive data related to the transaction and to transmit the data to a dispute resolution server and a dispute resolution server programmed to compare the transaction data to predetermined eligibility criteria for dispute resolution and if the dispute resolution criteria is met to decline future transactions from the merchant for the disputing consumer the server further programmed to compare the transaction data to predetermined eligibility criteria for transaction credit and if the credit criteria is met transmitting a credit instruction for the transaction.

The present invention also provides a computer based method for resolving disputes between a customer and an electronic payment provider concerning an electronic transaction between the customer and a merchant including receiving data related to the transaction in a computer transmitting the data from the computer to a dispute resolution server comparing the transaction data to predetermined eligibility criteria for dispute resolution in the dispute resolution server and if the dispute resolution criteria is met declining future transactions from the merchant for the disputing consumer and comparing the transaction data to predetermined eligibility criteria for transaction credit and if the credit criteria is met and transmitting a credit instruction for the transaction.

The following claims are thus to be understood to include what is specifically illustrated and described above what is conceptually equivalent what can be obviously substituted and also what essentially incorporates the essential idea of the invention. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described preferred embodiment can be configured without departing from the scope of the invention. The illustrated embodiment has been set forth only for the purposes of example and that should not be taken as limiting the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

