---

title: Efficient temporal search range control for video encoding processes
abstract: Gain Saturation (GS) for MRFME is where searching in more previous frames offers very limited or even no performance gain. Similarly, gain aggregation (GA) is where significant gain can be obtained by searching more frames. By dynamically determining, while encoding, if either condition applies, and changing the search range accordingly, complexity is reduced and speed can be increased.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08731048&OS=08731048&RS=08731048
owner: Tsai Sheng Group LLC
number: 08731048
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080815
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 956 438 filed on Aug. 17 2007 entitled EFFICIENT TEMPORAL SEARCH RANGE CONTROL FOR VIDEO COMPRESSION PROCESSES the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to temporal search range control optimizations for video encoding processes that efficiently process video data according to an adaptive processing model.

H.264 is a commonly used and widely adopted international video coding or compression standard also known as Advanced Video Coding AVC or Moving Pictures Experts Group MPEG 4 Part 10. H.264 AVC significantly improves compression efficiency compared to previous standards such as H.263 and MPEG 4. To achieve such a high coding efficiency H.264 is equipped with a set of tools that enhance prediction of content at the cost of additional computational complexity. In H.264 macro blocks are used where macro block MB is a term used in video compression which represents a block of 16 by 16 pixels though it is noted that different sized N N blocks could be used as macro blocks. In the YUV color space model each macroblock contains 4 8 8 luminance sub blocks or Y blocks 1 U block and 1 V block 4 2 0 wherein the U and V provide color information . In addition to representation as YUV values color data can be represented by 4 2 2 or 4 4 4 YCbCr format Cb and Cr are the blue and red Chrominance components .

Most video systems such as H.261 3 4 and MPEG 1 2 4 exploit spatial temporal and statistical redundancies in the source video. Some macro blocks belong to more advanced macro block types such as skipped and non skipped macro blocks. In non skipped macro blocks the encoder determines whether each of 8 8 luminance sub blocks and 4 4 chrominance sub blocks of a macro block is to be encoded giving the different number of encoded sub blocks at each macro block encoding time. It has been found that the correlation of bits between consecutive frames is high. Since the level of redundancy changes from frame to frame the number of bits per frame is variable even if the same quantization parameters are used for all frames.

A buffer has been employed to smooth out the variable video output rate and provide a constant video output rate. Rate control has been used to prevent the buffer from over flowing resulting in frame skipping and or under flowing resulting in low channel utilization in order to achieve acceptable video quality. Motion estimation motion compensation ME MC plays an important role in most of the video compression standards by efficiently reducing temporal redundancy. One important factor leading to enhancement of coding efficiency in H.264 MPEG4 AVC is the adoption of multiple reference frame motion estimation MRFME . With MRFME the encoder is allowed to extend the temporal search range to several previous frames stored in the buffer hence a better prediction results. However the coding gain is achieved at the expense of high complexity which linearly increases with the number of the reference frames. This restricts its applicability especially for real time applications.

Conventional systems for performing MRFME are mainly focused on reducing the complexity for a fixed temporal search range. One conventional way is to decrease the searching points by refining the search pattern or reference frame selection. An algorithm has been proposed to find a precise initial search point from the neighboring and temporal collocated blocks. A scheme to select a portion of the whole reference frames based on sub sample location and center biased property has also been suggested. However any increase in speed with such algorithms has been insignificant. Another algorithm has been proposed based on motion vector concatenation that makes use of motion vector correlation among different reference frames.

Another conventional way for performing MRFME focuses on early termination decision. For example statistical models have been built to decide whether it is necessary to perform a search on additional frames for each macro block. The performance gain for MRFME depends highly on the video characteristics in the sense that for some video sequences with certain characteristics the performance gain can be significant while for other video sequences with other characteristics the performance gain can be negligible. Therefore since computational power for searching is sometimes wasted without any significant benefit applying a fixed temporal search range is inefficient.

The above described deficiencies of current designs for H.264 AVC assisted encoding or compression are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of today s designs and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with the state of the art and corresponding benefits of the innovation may become further apparent upon review of the following description of various non limiting embodiments of the innovation.

A simplified summary is provided herein to help enable a basic or general understanding of various aspects of exemplary non limiting embodiments that follow in the more detailed description and the accompanying drawings. This summary is not intended however as an extensive or exhaustive overview. The sole purpose of this summary is to present some concepts related to various exemplary non limiting embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that follows.

Video data processing optimizations are provided for video encoding or compression processes that efficiently encode data. The optimizations take into account a relationship between reference frame buffer utilization and an optimal search range. The optimizations for encoding video data include receiving reference frame s of a sequence of image frames and adaptively changing a search range for searching reference frame s . In various non limiting embodiments a host system including frames of video data to be encoded performs some encoding for the plurality of frames and then transmits a reference frame and P frames including macro blocks to a graphics subsystem for further encoding. The host system performs the encoding process for the macro blocks while adaptively varying a search range used to encode the macro blocks.

As discussed in the background a fixed temporal search range is inefficient since sometimes computational power for searching is wasted without any corresponding benefit. Heretofore there has been no attempt to adaptively set the temporal search range.

Accordingly to address the wasted searching of conventional techniques a content adaptive algorithm is presented to control the temporal search range on the fly real time by monitoring the reference frame buffer utilization RFBU . Regardless of the accuracy of the underlying ME method applied various embodiments described below the RFBU is a measure of how many pixels in the reference frames are actively involved in generating the prediction thus a reflection of the overall efficiency of MRFME.

Gain Saturation GS for MRFME is where searching in previous frames offers very limited insignificant or even no performance gain. Similarly gain aggregation GA can achieve a significant gain by searching more frames. By dynamically determining if either condition applies while encoding and changing the search range accordingly in various embodiments described herein complexity is reduced with a concomitant increase in speed. By controlling the temporal search range significant computational power is saved. As a result in one non limiting embodiment simpler and less expensive circuitry can be realized.

In a generalized non limiting embodiment a method for encoding video data including a sequence of image frames in a computing system can be provided. The method includes receiving at least one reference frame of the sequence of image frames and adaptively changing a search range for searching reference frame s . In another non limiting embodiment a video compression system for compressing video in a computing system includes at least one data store for storing a plurality of frames of video data and a host system that processes at least part of an encoding process for the plurality of frames and transmits to a graphics subsystem a reference frame of the plurality of frames and a plurality of P frames that include a plurality of macro blocks wherein the host system performs the encoding process for the macro blocks while adaptively varying a search range used to encode the macro blocks.

The temporal search range can be adaptively set for each frame or can be adaptively set every N frames where N is an integer greater than 1. For example the temporal search range can be adaptively set every three frames. As shown in at a high level video encoding includes receiving video data encoding the video data according to a set of encoding rules implemented by a set of encoding processes that enable a corresponding decoder not shown in to decode the encoded data that results from encoding processes . Encoding processes typically compress video data such that representation is more compact than representation . Encodings can introduce loss of resolution of the data while others are lossless allowing video data to be restored to an identical copy of video data . An optimizer component can adaptively optimize the setting of the temporal search range. For example in one embodiment the optimizer component adaptively changes the N based at least partially on a sensed event a determined condition and or a prediction.

As mentioned an example of an encoding format is H.264 AVC. To encode data in H.264 AVC format as illustrated in video data is processed by encoding processes that implement H.264 AVC encoding processes which results in encoded data encoded according to the H.264 AVC format. A corresponding example of a decoding format is also H.264 AVC. To decode data in H.264 AVC format as shown by encoded video data is processed by decoding processes that implement H.264 AVC decoding processes which results in video data that is displayed to a user or users stored or otherwise further processed. The video data may have sustained some loss due to the compression.

As mentioned above optimized encoding parameters are desirable. Accordingly to address these deficiencies as generally illustrated in the block diagram of at least one generalized non limiting embodiment performs efficient real time temporal search range control for advanced video standards such as H.264 AVC. As a result of using the optimal encoding processes the complexity of an H.264 AVC encoding environment is reduced.

As a roadmap for what follows a brief overview of encoding follows next. MRFME gains are discussed and the gains are related to the RFBU index. Details of an embodiment of a non limiting general algorithm are then presented. Scene change and temporal search range control for occurrences of scene change are also described. Next some performance results of the adaptive search range techniques described herein are shown. Finally some exemplary non limiting computing environments in which one or more aspects of the embodiments described herein may be implemented are discussed.

In H.264 frames are divided into N macro blocks of 16 16 luminance samples each with two corresponding 8 8 chrominance samples. In Quarter Common Intermediate Format QCIF picture format there are 99 macro blocks for each frame. As the name including quarter implies QCIF is a format used mainly in desk top and videophone applications and has one fourth a quarter of the area of the Common Intermediate Format CIF . The CIF is used to standardize horizontal and vertical resolutions in pixels of YCbCr sequences in video signals. CIF was designed to be easy to convert to phase alternation line PAL or National Television System Committee NTSC standards. CIF was first proposed in the H.261 standard. CIF defines a video sequence with a resolution of 352 288 a frame rate of 30000 1001 roughly 29.97 fps with color encoded using YCbCr 4 2 0. A number of consecutive macro blocks in raster scan order can be grouped into slices representing independent coding units to be decoded without referencing other slices of the same frame.

Given that the whole frame is adopted as a unit slice the frame header is encoded and N macro blocks are processed one by one. The resulting macro block syntax is macro block header followed by macro block residue data. In a P frame the macroblock header includes run length macro block mode motion vector data coded block pattern CBP and a change of quantization parameter. When the macro block header starts to be encoded the run length indicates the number of skipped macro blocks that are made by copying the co located picture information from the last decoded frame. In other words the first frame is intra coded I frame with and subsequent frames are encoded as P frames. This means that they are predicted from the corresponding previous decoded frames using motion compensation and the residue is obtained.

As mentioned the adoption of MRFME can enhance the coding efficiency of H.264 MPEG4 AVC. In various non limiting embodiments described herein the encoder is allowed to extend the temporal search range to several previous frames stored in the buffer hence resulting in a better prediction.

MRFME is believed to achieve better coding results because a better reference macro block is expected to be obtained by extending the search to more reference frames sometimes termed repetition . Repetition in general includes meaningful repetitions such as repetitive motions and meaningless repetitions due to lighting changes camera noise or sampling. In this regard a major advantage of the herein described methods apparatus algorithms etc. arises from meaningless repetitions. Statistical models can be built to decide whether it is necessary to perform search on additional frames for each macro block.

The performance gain for MRFME highly depends on the video characteristics in the sense that for some sequences the performance gain is significant while for others the performance gain is negligible. Therefore a fixed temporal search range is inefficient since sometimes computational power for searching is wasted without any or few attendant benefits.

While distinguishing where the exact coding gain comes from for every sequence the trend that the more frequently these repetitions occur the more gain that can be realized by MRFME can be exploited. In other words the performance gain of MRFME can depend on how efficiently the reference frame buffer can generate the prediction signal.

The optimal motion vector MV in the rate distortion sense is found by minimizing the following Lagrange cost function over all motion vector candidates as represented by Eqn. 1 . 1 

where right arrow over mv and right arrow over mp are the MV and predicted MV Qp and are the quantization parameter and the Lagrange multiplier s and right arrow over cmv represent the original video signal and the reconstructed video signal. Nis the number of references such as for example in one embodiment Nis the number of reference frames.

In the rate distortion sense searching more reference frames decreases prediction distortion at the same time however searching more reference frames increases the rate term in at least two ways. Firstly the more candidate reference frames the more bits are needed for indexing and consequently the more bits are sent as side information. Secondly as motion vectors are less correlated in different reference frames the motion vector prediction may not be as accurate as the case with a single reference frame. This trade off is verified by the simulation results listed in Table I. It shows the additional coding gain for the first 50 frames of the CIF test sequences by performing ME on two to five reference frames compared with search range with one reference frame .

It can be seen from Table I that a single reference frame search range provides the best performance for Akiyo. Searching in two reference frames performs as well as searching in five reference frames for coastguard. However the results for tempete and mobile are significantly different demonstrating that a larger search range yields better coding performance. In order to discriminate the different scenarios one can define a gain saturation GS effect for MRFME when searching in more previous frames offers very limited or even no performance gain. Similarly one can define a gain aggregate GA effect when significant gains can be obtained by searching more frames. These two effects can be observed in GA and GS .

A more formal definition of GS GA state is given in table II where and are two threshold values. In the following for simplicity of statement a particular temporal search range L for a sequence S in gain saturation state is denoted by LS GS . The GA state can be defined similarly as set forth in table II below.

When the temporal search range increases from unity to infinity a gradual transition from GS to GA is observed. And the extra computational power due to the extension of search range is worthy in the GA state while merely wasteful in GS state.

When the effect of MRFME is saturated GS searching in more frames does not affect the optimal results in the Rate Distortion sense which means that most of the macro blocks reference to the recent frames. The worst case for l t 5 would be RFBUI 20 when all the macro blocks refer to the most recent frame. Therefore when the MRFME is in GS state the index would be low. Conversely when MRFME is useful in the GA status many of the macro blocks may reference to the other frames. The RFBUI value would be large. Thus the index is approximates the percent of the useful pixels stored in the reference frame buffer which are used by later frames to generate prediction signals.

In order to quantitatively distinguish the cases of GA and GS the concept of reference frame buffer utilization index RFBUI is introduced in this subsection. A video sequence is denoted as F F . . . F where Fis the ith frame with Nmacro blocks. R 0 1denotes the group of macro blocks in Fthat are referenced by F. Macro blocks MB are indexed by their scanning order in the frame. The element Requals one if MBis in right arrow over R and zero otherwise. R represents the total number of ones in right arrow over R . Finally right arrow over R right arrow over R is defined as RR k 1 N where is the bitwise OR operation. The RFBUI at time t is defined by Eqn. 2 

A macro block or a pixel is deemed useful when it is referenced by later frames. The nominator of the index is actually the total number of useful macro blocks in the reference frame buffer. The denominator is the size of the buffer in MBs. Thus the index approximates the percent of the useful pixels stored in the reference frame buffer that are used by later frames to generate a prediction signal.

Since the video sequence characteristics change over time a fixed temporal search range to the entire sequence is likely to be inefficient. The optimal value of temporal search range is thus one selected that does not result in the system in either the GA state or the GS state. As discussed above the GS and GA states can be differentiated or approximated by the RFBUI. One exemplary algorithm to adjust the search range adaptively can be by monitoring the RFBUI using pseudo code as follows 

This exemplary non limiting pseudo code is an effective algorithm to control the temporal search range CurRange . Rangeand Rangerepresent the maximum and minimum search range allowed. The value of l t is the search range for F. The THand THare thresholds tables indexed by N Q and l t .

The threshold values can be set based on training data obtained from testing standard sequences. For frame size N for instance a table obtained was generated from 100 training sequences. Each sequence were selected to contain 40 consecutive frames taken from various standard testing sequences such as the first 40 frames of foreman. The sequences were encoded with quality factor QPand fixed search range R. Then the frames were classified into three classes GA GS and according to TABLE II by setting 0.02 and D L S being the peak signal to noise ratio PSNR . PSNR is an engineering term for the ratio between the maximum possible power of a signal and the power of corrupting noise that affects the fidelity of its representation. Because many signals have a very wide dynamic range PSNR is usually expressed in terms of the logarithmic decibel. Typical values for the PSNR in image compression are between 30 and 40 dB for a given PSNR measure. In this regard the average RFBUI for each sequence can be calculated respectively. In non limiting fashion the threshold entry TH N QP R was set equal to the value such that 80 of the sequences in GS have RFBUI value smaller than . Similarly TH N QP R was set equal to a value such that 80 of the sequences in GA have RFBUI value larger than .

Additionally instead of a frame by frame analysis one can employ a macro block by macro block analysis. More particularly each individual macro block can be examined at to determine if the macro block is in the GA or GS state. At it is determined if the gain saturation condition is satisfied and if so then at the search range is decreased unless the range is already at the minimum value. The minimum value can be unity or any other desired value. If the gain saturation condition is not satisfied then at it is determined if the gain aggregation condition is satisfied and if so then at the search range is increased unless the range is already at the maximum value. The maximum value can be 5 or any other desired value. If the frame or macro block is not in either the gain saturation condition or the gain aggregation condition then the frame or macro block is encoded without changing the search range.

In one non limiting embodiment an artificial intelligence AI component is employed. The AI component can be employed to facilitate inferring and or determining when where how to dynamically vary the search range. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event s and data source s .

The AI component can also employ any of a variety of suitable AI based schemes in connection with facilitating various aspects of the herein described embodiments and for assisting in determining characteristics of video for use in efficient encoding. Classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. For example a support vector machine SVM classifier can be employed. Other classification approaches include Bayesian networks decision trees and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

At the search range is dynamically varied based at least partially on the utilization of the reference frame buffer from the re determination at . Although not explicitly shown in the utilization of the reference frame buffer is re determined repeatedly and in one exemplary general embodiment the utilization of reference frame buffer is checked every time a frame is received.

For example it is believed that when a scene change occurs as described below there is little or no benefit to having a high search range and it would be desirable to detect scene changes and set the range to unity when a scene change occurs.

Scene changes are likely to occur when the residue energy of the P frame is relatively high. This usually occurs in relatively fast motion video and any video with a sudden change in static background. In a Laplacian distribution x with probability function p x the residue energy Eof the i th macro block in the continuous case can be given by Eqn. 3 

where K and Qare model parameter standard deviation and quantization step size of the i th macro block respectively.

For simplicity one can use Eqn. 6 for determination of scene change since K is a constant term and can be ignored if desired 6 

When the i th macro block is processed to be encoded the accumulated residue energy E in the current frame is given by Eqn. 7 

Scene change is determined when the following condition given by Eqn. 8 is held 8 where Bis the target total bits of the current frame is the average QP of the previous frame N is the total number of macro blocks in the current frame and L is threshold factor for determination of scene change. In an empirical example as a non limiting detail L was chosen to be 1.3. When the scene change happens a high bit correlation coefficient may not remain and the remaining macro blocks of the current frame can be encoded with a search range of unity.

Exemplary non limiting algorithms such as set forth in the pseudo code above were tested on three CIF 352 288 sequences with different degrees of object and camera motion Paris 300 frames Foreman 300 frames and Football 260 frames . The original method comparison method was to use a fixed temporal range of five in every sequence. Table III above summarizes the results of PSNR bitrates and complexity of adaptively changing the search range versus employing a static value. Compared with the fixed search range scheme the herein described embodiments can efficiently reduce the complexity by about 40 while having negligible performance penalty about 0.01 dB and 0.2 bitrate .

The simulation results also reveals that the degree of motion activity in the scene is closely related to the possible additional coding gain achieved by extending the search range. The additional gain is peaked at certain medium degree of motion while the low motion scenes and the high motion scenes do not benefit much. This is because searching in 1 or 2 recent frames already produces an accurate prediction signal for the low degree case while a good match is unlikely to be found in any of the reference frames for the high motion case. Thus controlling the temporal search range adaptively to video characteristics can be advantageous. shows the number of reference frames searched for each frame for foreman. The result indicates that the herein described algorithm adapts to the video characteristics quite well.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the innovation can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment connected to any kind of data store. In this regard the present innovation pertains to any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units or volumes which may be used in connection with optimization algorithms and processes performed in accordance with the present innovation. The present innovation may apply to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage. The present innovation may also be applied to standalone computing devices having programming language functionality interpretation and execution capabilities for generating receiving and transmitting information in connection with remote or local services and processes.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by exchange between computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for objects such as files. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may implicate the optimization algorithms and processes of at least one generalized non limiting embodiment.

It can also be appreciated that an object such as may be hosted on another computing device etc. or etc. Thus although the physical environment depicted may show the connected devices as computers such illustration is merely exemplary and the physical environment may alternatively be depicted or described comprising various digital devices such as PDAs televisions MP3 players etc. any of which may employ a variety of wired and wireless services software objects such as interfaces COM objects and the like.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems may be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many of the networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks. Any of the infrastructures may be used for exemplary communications made incident to optimization algorithms and processes according to the present innovation.

In home networking environments there are at least four disparate network transport media that may each support a unique protocol such as Power line data both wireless and wired voice e.g. telephone and entertainment media. Most home control devices such as light switches and appliances may use power lines for connectivity. Data Services may enter the home as broadband e.g. either DSL or Cable modem and are accessible within the home using either wireless e.g. HomeRF or 802.11A B G or wired e.g. Home PNA Cat 5 Ethernet even power line connectivity. Voice traffic may enter the home either as wired e.g. Cat 3 or wireless e.g. cell phones and may be distributed within the home using Cat 3 wiring. Entertainment media or other graphical data may enter the home either through satellite or cable and is typically distributed in the home using coaxial cable. IEEE 1394 and DVI are also digital interconnects for clusters of media devices. All of these network environments and others that may emerge or already have emerged as protocol standards may be interconnected to form a network such as an intranet that may be connected to the outside world by way of a wide area network such as the Internet. In short a variety of disparate sources exist for the storage and transmission of data and consequently any of the computing devices of the present innovation may share and communicate data in any existing manner and no one way described in the embodiments herein is intended to be limiting.

The Internet commonly refers to the collection of networks and gateways that utilize the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols which are well known in the art of computer networking. The Internet can be described as a system of geographically distributed remote computer networks interconnected by computers executing networking protocols that allow users to interact and share information over network s . Because of such wide spread information sharing remote networks such as the Internet have thus far generally evolved into an open system with which developers can design software applications for performing specialized operations or services essentially without restriction.

Thus the network infrastructure enables a host of network topologies such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. Thus in computing a client is a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as an example computers etc. can be thought of as clients and computers etc. can be thought of as servers where servers etc. maintain the data that is then replicated to client computers etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices may be processing data or requesting services or tasks that may implicate the optimization algorithms and processes in accordance with at least one generalized non limiting embodiment.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the optimization algorithms and processes of at least one generalized non limiting embodiment may be distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

Client s and server s communicate with one another utilizing the functionality provided by protocol layer s . For example HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP is a common protocol that is used in conjunction with the World Wide Web WWW or the Web. Typically a computer network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or other reference such as a Universal Resource Locator URL can be used to identify the server or client computers to each other. The network address can be referred to as a URL address. Communication can be provided over a communications medium e.g. client s and server s may be coupled to one another via TCP IP connection s for high capacity communication.

Thus illustrates an exemplary networked or distributed environment with server s in communication with client computer s via a network bus in which the present innovation may be employed. In more detail a number of servers etc. are interconnected via a communications network bus which may be a LAN WAN intranet GSM network the Internet etc. with a number of client or remote computing devices etc. such as a portable computer handheld computer thin client networked appliance or other device such as a VCR TV oven light heater and the like in accordance with the present innovation. It is thus contemplated that the present innovation may apply to any computing device in connection with which it is desirable to communicate data over a network.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus is the Internet for example the servers etc. can be Web servers with which the clients etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as HTTP. Servers etc. may also serve as clients etc. as may be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned communications may be wired or wireless or a combination where appropriate. Client devices etc. may or may not communicate via communications network bus and may have independent communications associated therewith. For example in the case of a TV or VCR there may or may not be a networked aspect to the control thereof. Each client computer etc. and server computer etc. may be equipped with various application program modules or objects etc. and with connections or access to various types of storage elements or objects across which files or data streams may be stored or to which portion s of files or data streams may be downloaded transmitted or migrated. Any one or more of computers etc. may be responsible for the maintenance and updating of a database or other storage element such as a database or memory for storing data processed or saved according to at least one generalized non limiting embodiment. Thus the present innovation can be utilized in a computer network environment having client computers etc. that can access and interact with a computer network bus and server computers etc. that may interact with client computers etc. and other like devices and databases .

As mentioned the innovation applies to any device wherein it may be desirable to communicate data e.g. to a mobile device. It should be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the present innovation i.e. anywhere that a device may communicate data or otherwise receive process or store data. Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example and the present innovation may be implemented with any client having network bus interoperability and interaction. Thus the present innovation may be implemented in an environment of networked hosted services in which very little or minimal client resources are implicated e.g. a networked environment in which the client device serves merely as an interface to the network bus such as an object placed in an appliance.

Although not required at least one generalized non limiting embodiment can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates in connection with the component s of at least one generalized non limiting embodiment. Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the innovation may be practiced with other computer system configurations and protocols.

With reference to an exemplary remote device for implementing at least one generalized non limiting embodiment includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media.

The system memory may include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up may be stored in memory . Memory typically also contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation memory may also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. For example computer could include a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and or an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. A hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as an interface and a magnetic disk drive or optical disk drive is typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as an interface.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through user input and associated interface s that are coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A graphics subsystem may also be connected to the system bus . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface which may in turn communicate with video memory. In addition to a monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which may be connected through output interface

The computer may operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer which may in turn have media capabilities different from device . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and may include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter. When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a communications component such as a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. A communications component such as a modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface of input or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown and described are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

While the present innovation has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various Figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present innovation without deviating therefrom. For example one skilled in the art will recognize that the present innovation as described in the present application may apply to any environment whether wired or wireless and may be applied to any number of such devices connected via a communications network and interacting across the network. Therefore the present innovation should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

Various implementations of the innovation described herein may have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software. As used herein the terms component system and the like are likewise intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Thus the methods and apparatus of the present innovation or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the innovation. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device.

Furthermore the disclosed subject matter may be implemented as a system method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer or processor based device to implement aspects detailed herein. The terms article of manufacture computer program product or similar terms where used herein are intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick . Additionally it is known that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN .

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components e.g. according to a hierarchical arrangement. Additionally it should be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the various flow diagrams. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks may be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

Furthermore as will be appreciated various portions of the disclosed systems above and methods below may include or consist of artificial intelligence or knowledge or rule based components sub components processes means methodologies or mechanisms e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines classifiers . . . . Such components inter alia can automate certain mechanisms or processes performed thereby to make portions of the systems and methods more adaptive as well as efficient and intelligent.

A content adaptive temporal search range control algorithm is herein described. One embodiment of an algorithm is based on the observation that the search range should be set to the minimum value such that the degradation in Rate Distortion performance is negligible. Simulation results show that effective reduction of complexity and adaptability to the content characteristics can be achieved with negligible Rate Distortion performance degradation. Furthermore substantial gain can be obtained by combining the herein described algorithm with other block based fast MRFME algorithms.

While the present innovation has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present innovation without deviating therefrom.

While exemplary embodiments refer to utilizing the present innovation in the context of particular programming language constructs specifications or standards the innovation is not so limited but rather may be implemented in any language to perform the optimization algorithms and processes. Still further the present innovation may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Therefore the present innovation should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

