---

title: System and method for cleaning noisy genetic data and determining chromosome copy number
abstract: Disclosed herein is a system and method for increasing the fidelity of measured genetic data, for making allele calls, and for determining the state of aneuploidy, in one or a small set of cells, or from fragmentary DNA, where a limited quantity of genetic data is available. Genetic material from the target individual is acquired, amplified and the genetic data is measured using known methods. Poorly or incorrectly measured base pairs, missing alleles and missing regions are reconstructed using expected similarities between the target genome and the genome of genetically related individuals. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention, incomplete genetic data from an embryonic cell are reconstructed at a plurality of loci using the more complete genetic data from a larger sample of diploid cells from one or both parents, with or without haploid genetic data from one or both parents. In another embodiment of the invention, the chromosome copy number can be determined from the measured genetic data of a single or small number of cells, with or without genetic information from one or both parents. In another embodiment of the invention, these determinations are made for the purpose of embryo selection in the context of in-vitro fertilization. In another embodiment of the invention, the genetic data can be reconstructed for the purposes of making phenotypic predictions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08515679&OS=08515679&RS=08515679
owner: Natera, Inc.
number: 08515679
owner_city: San Carlos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080317
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 496 982 filed Jul. 31 2006 a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 603 406 filed Nov. 22 2006 and a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 634 550 filed Dec. 6 2006 which claims the benefit of U.S. 60 846 610 filed Sep. 22 2006 U.S. 60 817 741 filed Jun. 30 2006 U.S. 60 789 506 filed Apr. 4 2006 U.S. 60 774 976 filed Feb. 21 2006 U.S. 60 754 396 filed Dec. 29 2005 U.S. 60 742 305 filed Dec. 6 2005 U.S. 60 739 882 filed Nov. 26 2005 and U.S. 60 703 415 filed Jul. 29 2005 the disclosures thereof are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. This application also claims the benefit of priority to U.S. 60 918 292 filed Mar. 16 2007 U.S. 60 926 198 filed Apr. 25 2007 U.S. 60 932 456 filed May 31 2007 U.S. 60 934 441 filed Jun. 11 2007 U.S. 61 003 101 filed Nov. 12 2007 and U.S. 61 008 637 filed Dec. 21 2007 the disclosures thereof are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. R44HD054958 02A2 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates generally to the field of acquiring manipulating and using genetic data for medically predictive purposes and specifically to a system in which imperfectly measured genetic data of a target individual are made more accurate by using known genetic data of genetically related individuals thereby allowing more effective identification of genetic variations specifically aneuploidy and disease linked genes that could result in various phenotypic outcomes.

In 2006 across the globe roughly 800 000 in vitro fertilization IVF cycles were run. Of the roughly 150 000 cycles run in the US about 10 000 involved pre implantation genetic diagnosis PGD . Current PGD techniques are unregulated expensive and highly unreliable error rates for screening disease linked loci or aneuploidy are on the order of 10 each screening test costs roughly 5 000 and a couple is forced to choose between testing aneuploidy which afflicts roughly 50 of IVF embryos or screening for disease linked loci on the single cell. There is a great need for an affordable technology that can reliably determine genetic data from a single cell in order to screen in parallel for aneuploidy monogenic diseases such as Cystic Fibrosis and susceptibility to complex disease phenotypes for which the multiple genetic markers are known through whole genome association studies.

Most PGD today focuses on high level chromosomal abnormalities such as aneuploidy and balanced translocations with the primary outcomes being successful implantation and a take home baby. The other main focus of PGD is for genetic disease screening with the primary outcome being a healthy baby not afflicted with a genetically heritable disease for which one or both parents are carriers. In both cases the likelihood of the desired outcome is enhanced by excluding genetically suboptimal embryos from transfer and implantation in the mother.

The process of PGD during IVF currently involves extracting a single cell from the roughly eight cells of an early stage embryo for analysis. Isolation of single cells from human embryos while highly technical is now routine in IVF clinics. Both polar bodies and blastomeres have been isolated with success. The most common technique is to remove single blastomeres from day 3 embryos 6 or 8 cell stage . Embryos are transferred to a special cell culture medium standard culture medium lacking calcium and magnesium and a hole is introduced into the zona pellucida using an acidic solution laser or mechanical techniques. The technician then uses a biopsy pipette to remove a single blastomere with a visible nucleus. Features of the DNA of the single or occasionally multiple blastomere are measured using a variety of techniques. Since only a single copy of the DNA is available from one cell direct measurements of the DNA are highly error prone or noisy. There is a great need for a technique that can correct or make more accurate these noisy genetic measurements.

Normal humans have two sets of 23 chromosomes in every diploid cell with one copy coming from each parent. Aneuploidy the state of a cell with extra or missing chromosome s and uniparental disomy the state of a cell with two of a given chromosome both of which originate from one parent are believed to be responsible for a large percentage of failed implantations and miscarriages and some genetic diseases. When only certain cells in an individual are aneuploid the individual is said to exhibit mosaicism. Detection of chromosomal abnormalities can identify individuals or embryos with conditions such as Down syndrome Klinefelter s syndrome and Turner syndrome among others in addition to increasing the chances of a successful pregnancy. Testing for chromosomal abnormalities is especially important as the age of a potential mother increases between the ages of 35 and 40 it is estimated that between 40 and 50 of the embryos are abnormal and above the age of 40 more than half of the embryos are like to be abnormal. The main cause of aneuploidy is nondisjunction during meiosis. Maternal nondisjunction constitutes 88 of all nondisjunction of which 65 occurs in meiosis 1 and 23 in meiosis II. Common types of human aneuploidy include trisomy from meiosis I nondisjunction monosomy and uniparental disomy. In a particular type of trisomy that arises in meiosis II nondisjunction or M2 trisomy an extra chromosome is identical to one of the two normal chromosomes. M2 trisomy is particularly difficult to detect. There is a great need for a better method that can detect for many or all types of aneuploidy at most or all of the chromosomes efficiently and with high accuracy.

Karyotyping the traditional method used for the prediction of aneuploidy and mosaicism is giving way to other more high throughput more cost effective methods such as Flow Cytometry FC and fluorescent in situ hybridization FISH . Currently the vast majority of prenatal diagnoses use FISH which can determine large chromosomal aberrations and PCR electrophoresis and which can determine a handful of SNPs or other allele calls. One advantage of FISH is that it is less expensive than karyotyping but the technique is complex and expensive enough that generally a small selection of chromosomes are tested usually chromosomes 13 18 21 X Y also sometimes 8 9 15 16 17 22 in addition FISH has a low level of specificity. Roughly seventy five percent of PGD today measures high level chromosomal abnormalities such as aneuploidy using FISH with error rates on the order of 10 15 . There is a great demand for an aneuploidy screening method that has a higher throughput lower cost and greater accuracy.

The number of known disease associated genetic alleles is currently at 389 according to OMIM and steadily climbing. Consequently it is becoming increasingly relevant to analyze multiple positions on the embryonic DNA or loci that are associated with particular phenotypes. A clear advantage of pre implantation genetic diagnosis over prenatal diagnosis is that it avoids some of the ethical issues regarding possible choices of action once undesirable phenotypes have been detected. A need exists for a method for more extensive genotyping of embryos at the pre implantation stage.

There are a number of advanced technologies that enable the diagnosis of genetic aberrations at one or a few loci at the single cell level. These include interphase chromosome conversion comparative genomic hybridization fluorescent PCR mini sequencing and whole genome amplification. The reliability of the data generated by all of these techniques relies on the quality of the DNA preparation. Better methods for the preparation of single cell DNA for amplification and PGD are therefore needed and are under study. All genotyping techniques when used on single cells small numbers of cells or fragments of DNA suffer from integrity issues most notably allele drop out ADO . This is exacerbated in the context of in vitro fertilization since the efficiency of the hybridization reaction is low and the technique must operate quickly in order to genotype the embryo within the time period of maximal embryo viability. There exists a great need for a method that alleviates the problem of a high ADO rate when measuring genetic data from one or a small number of cells especially when time constraints exist.

Listed here is a set of prior art which is related to the field of the current invention. None of this prior art contains or in any way refers to the novel elements of the current invention. In U.S. Pat. No. 6 489 135 Parrott et al. provide methods for determining various biological characteristics of in vitro fertilized embryos including overall embryo health implantability and increased likelihood of developing successfully to term by analyzing media specimens of in vitro fertilization cultures for levels of bioactive lipids in order to determine these characteristics. In US Patent Application 20040033596 Threadgill et al. describe a method for preparing homozygous cellular libraries useful for in vitro phenotyping and gene mapping involving site specific mitotic recombination in a plurality of isolated parent cells. In U.S. Pat. No. 5 635 366 Cooke et al. provide a method for predicting the outcome of IVF by determining the level of 11 hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 11 HSD in a biological sample from a female patient. In U.S. Pat. No. 7 058 517 Denton et al. describe a method wherein an individual s haplotypes are compared to a known database of haplotypes in the general population to predict clinical response to a treatment. In U.S. Pat. No. 7 035 739 Schadt at al. describe a method is described wherein a genetic marker map is constructed and the individual genes and traits are analyzed to give a gene trait locus data which are then clustered as a way to identify genetically interacting pathways which are validated using multivariate analysis. In US Patent Application US 2004 0137470 A1 Dhallan et al. describe using primers especially selected so as to improve the amplification rate and detection of a large number of pertinent disease related loci and a method of more efficiently quantitating the absence presence and or amount of each of those genes. In World Patent Application WO 03 031646 Findlay et al. describe a method to use an improved selection of genetic markers such that amplification of the limited amount of genetic material will give more uniformly amplified material and it can be genotyped with higher fidelity.

The system disclosed enables the cleaning of incomplete or noisy genetic data using secondary genetic data as a source of information and also the determination of chromosome copy number using said genetic data. While the disclosure focuses on genetic data from human subjects and more specifically on as yet not implanted embryos or developing fetuses as well as related individuals it should be noted that the methods disclosed apply to the genetic data of a range of organisms in a range of contexts. The techniques described for cleaning genetic data are most relevant in the context of pre implantation diagnosis during in vitro fertilization prenatal diagnosis in conjunction with amniocentesis chorion villus biopsy fetal tissue sampling and non invasive prenatal diagnosis where a small quantity of fetal genetic material is isolated from maternal blood. The use of this method may facilitate diagnoses focusing on inheritable diseases chromosome copy number predictions increased likelihoods of defects or abnormalities as well as making predictions of susceptibility to various disease and non disease phenotypes for individuals to enhance clinical and lifestyle decisions. The invention addresses the shortcomings of prior art that are discussed above.

In one aspect of the invention methods make use of knowledge of the genetic data of the mother and the father such as diploid tissue samples sperm from the father haploid samples from the mother or other embryos derived from the mother s and father s gametes together with the knowledge of the mechanism of meiosis and the imperfect measurement of the embryonic DNA in order to reconstruct in silico the embryonic DNA at the location of key loci with a high degree of confidence. In one aspect of the invention genetic data derived from other related individuals such as other embryos brothers and sisters grandparents or other relatives can also be used to increase the fidelity of the reconstructed embryonic DNA. It is important to note that the parental and other secondary genetic data allows the reconstruction not only of SNPs that were measured poorly but also of insertions deletions and of SNPs or whole regions of DNA that were not measured at all.

In one aspect of the invention the fetal or embryonic genomic data which has been reconstructed with or without the use of genetic data from related individuals can be used to detect if the cell is aneuploid that is where fewer or more than two of a particular chromosome is present in a cell. The reconstructed data can also be used to detect for uniparental disomy a condition in which two of a given chromosome are present both of which originate from one parent. This is done by creating a set of hypotheses about the potential states of the DNA and testing to see which hypothesis has the highest probability of being true given the measured data. Note that the use of high throughput genotyping data for screening for aneuploidy enables a single blastomere from each embryo to be used both to measure multiple disease linked loci as well as to screen for aneuploidy.

In another aspect of the invention the direct measurements of the amount of genetic material amplified or unamplified present at a plurality of loci can be used to detect for monosomy uniparental disomy trisomy and other aneuploidy states. The idea behind this method is that measuring the amount of genetic material at multiple loci will give a statistically significant result.

In another aspect of the invention the measurements direct or indirect of a particular subset of SNPs namely those loci where the parents are both homozygous but with different allele values can be used to detect for chromosomal abnormalities by looking at the ratios of maternally versus paternally miscalled homozygous loci on the embryo. The idea behind this method is that those loci where each parent is homozygous but have different alleles by definition result in a heterozygous loci on the embryo. Allele drop outs at those loci are random and a shift in the ratio of loci miscalled as homozygous can only be due to incorrect chromosome number.

It will be recognized by a person of ordinary skill in the art given the benefit of this disclosure that various aspects and embodiments of this disclosure may implemented in combination or separately.

The goal of the disclosed system is to provide highly accurate genomic data for the purpose of genetic diagnoses. In cases where the genetic data of an individual contains a significant amount of noise or errors the disclosed system makes use of the expected similarities between the genetic data of the target individual and the genetic data of related individuals to clean the noise in the target genome. This is done by determining which segments of chromosomes of related individuals were involved in gamete formation and when necessary where crossovers may have occurred during meiosis and therefore which segments of the genomes of related individuals are expected to be nearly identical to sections of the target genome. In certain situations this method can be used to clean noisy base pair measurements on the target individual but it also can be used to infer the identity of individual base pairs or whole regions of DNA that were not measured. It can also be used to determine the number of copies of a given chromosome segment in the target individual. In addition a confidence may be computed for each call made. A highly simplified explanation is presented first making unrealistic assumptions in order to illustrate the concept of the invention. A detailed statistical approach that can be applied to the technology of today is presented afterward.

In one aspect of the invention the target individual is an embryo and the purpose of applying the disclosed method to the genetic data of the embryo is to allow a doctor or other agent to make an informed choice of which embryo s should be implanted during IVF. In another aspect of the invention the target individual is a fetus and the purpose of applying the disclosed method to genetic data of the fetus is to allow a doctor or other agent to make an informed choice about possible clinical decisions or other actions to be taken with respect to the fetus.

Assume here the goal is to estimate the genetic data of an embryo as accurately as possible and where the estimate is derived from measurements taken from the embryo father and mother across the same set of n SNPs. Note that where this description refers to SNPs it may also refer to a locus where any genetic variation such as a point mutation insertion or deletion may be present. This allele calling method is part of the Parental Support PS system. One way to increase the fidelity of allele calls in the genetic data of a target individual for the purposes of making clinically actionable predictions is described here. It should be obvious to one skilled in the art how to modify the method for use in contexts where the target individual is not an embryo where genetic data from only one parent is available where neither one or both of the parental haplotypes are known or where genetic data from other related individuals is known and can be incorporated.

For the purposes of this discussion only consider SNPs that admit two allele values without loss of generality it is possible to assume that the allele values on all SNPs belong to the alphabet A A C. It is also assumed that the errors on the measurements of each of the SNPs are independent. This assumption is reasonable when the SNPs being measured are from sufficiently distant genic regions. Note that one could incorporate information about haplotype blocks or other techniques to model correlation between measurement errors on SNPs without changing the fundamental concepts of this invention.

Let e e e be the true unknown ordered SNP information on the embryo e e A. Define eto be the genetic haploid information inherited from the father and eto be the genetic haploid information inherited from the mother. Also use e e e to denote the ordered pair of alleles at the i th position of e. In similar fashion let f f f and m m m be the true unknown ordered SNP information on the father and mother respectively. In addition let gbe the true unknown haploid information on a single sperm from the father. One can think of the letter g as standing for gamete. There is no g. The subscript is used to remind the reader that the information is haploid in the same way that fand fare haploid. It is also convenient to define r f m so that there is a symbol to represent the complete set of diploid parent information from which e inherits and also write r m m m to denote the complete set of ordered information on father and mother at the i th SNP. Finally let be the estimate of e that is sought A.

By a crossover map it is meant an n tuple 1 2that specifies how a haploid pair such as f f recombines to form a gamete such as e. Treating as a function whose output is a haploid sequence define f f f f. To make this idea more concrete let f ACAAACCC let f CAACCACA and let 11111222. Then f f ACAAAACA. In this example the crossover map implicitly indicates that a crossover occurred between SNPs i 5 and i 6.

Formally let be the true unknown crossover map that determines efrom f let be the true unknown crossover map that determines efrom m and let be the true unknown crossover map that determines gfrom f. That is e f e m g f . It is also convenient to define X so that there is a symbol to represent the complete set of crossover information associated with the problem. For simplicity sake write e X r as shorthand for e f m also write e X r as shorthand for e X r 

In reality when chromosomes combine at most a few crossovers occur making most of the 2theoretically possible crossover maps distinctly improbable. In practice these very low probability crossover maps will be treated as though they had probability zero considering only crossover maps belonging to a comparatively small set . For example if is defined to be the set of crossover maps that derive from at most one crossover then 2n.

It is convenient to have an alphabet that can be used to describe unordered diploid measurements. To that end let B A B C X. Here A and C represent their respective homozygous locus states and B represents a heterozygous but unordered locus state. Note this section is the only section of the document that uses the symbol B to stand for a heterozygous but unordered locus state. Most other sections of the document use the symbols A and B to stand for the two different allele values that can occur at a locus. X represents an unmeasured locus i.e. a locus drop out. To make this idea more concrete let f ACAAACCC and let f CAACCACA. Then a noiseless unordered diploid measurement of f would yield tilde over f BBABBBCB.

In the problem at hand it is only possible to take unordered diploid measurements of e f and m although there may be ordered haploid measurements on g. This results in noisy measured sequences that are denoted tilde over e B tilde over f B tilde over m B and tilde over g Arespectively. It will be convenient to define tilde over r tilde over f tilde over m so that there is a symbol that represents the noisy measurements on the parent data. It will also be convenient to define tilde over D tilde over r tilde over e tilde over g so that there is a symbol to represent the complete set of noisy measurements associated with the problem and to write tilde over D tilde over r tilde over e tilde over g tilde over tilde over m tilde over e tilde over g to denote the complete set of measurements on the i th SNP. Please note that while is an ordered pair such as A C tilde over is a single letter such as B. 

Because the diploid measurements are unordered nothing in the data can distinguish the state f f from f f or the state m m from m m . These indistinguishable symmetric states give rise to multiple optimal solutions of the estimation problem. To eliminate the symmetries and without loss of generality assign 1.

In summary then the problem is defined by a true but unknown underlying set of information r e g X with e X r . Only noisy measurements tilde over D tilde over r tilde over e tilde over g are available. The goal is to come up with an estimate of e based on tilde over D .

Note that this method implicitly assumes euploidy on the embryo. It should be obvious to one skilled in the art how this method could be used in conjunction with the aneuploidy calling methods described elsewhere in this patent. For example the aneuploidy calling method could be first employed to ensure that the embryo is indeed euploid and only then would the allele calling method be employed or the aneuploidy calling method could be used to determine how many chromosome copies were derived from each parent and only then would the allele calling method be employed. It should also be obvious to one skilled in the art how this method could be modified in the case of a sex chromosome where there is only one copy of a chromosome present.

In one embodiment of the invention it is possible for each of the n SNP positions to use a maximum a posteriori MAP estimation to determine the most probable ordered allele pair at that position. The derivation that follows uses a common shorthand notation for probability expressions. For example P e tilde over D X is written to denote the probability that random variable etakes on value e and the random variable tilde over D takes on its observed value conditional on the event that the random variable X takes on the value X . Using MAP estimation then the i th component of denoted is given by

The final expression above contains three probability expressions P X P r and P tilde over D X r . The computation of each of these quantities is discussed in the following three sections.

Recent research has enabled the modeling of the probability of recombination between any two SNP loci. Observations from sperm studies and patterns of genetic variation show that recombination rates vary extensively on kilobase scales and that much recombination occurs in recombination hotspots. The NCBI data about recombination rates on the Human Genome is publicly available through the UCSC Genome Annotation Database.

One may use the data set from the Hapmap Project or the Perlegen Human Haplotype Project. The latter is higher density the former is higher quality. These rates can be estimated using various techniques known to those skilled in the art such as the reversible jump Markov Chain Monte Carlo MCMC method that is available in the package LDHat.

In one embodiment of the invention it is possible to calculate the probability of any crossover map given the probability of crossover between any two SNPs. For example P 11111222 is one half the probability that a crossover occurred between SNPs five and six. The reason it is only half the probability is that a particular crossover pattern has two crossover maps associated with it one for each gamete. In this case the other crossover map is 22222111.

Recall that X where e f e m g f . Obviously and result from independent physical events so P X P P P . Further assume that P P P where the actual distribution P is determined in the obvious way from the Hapmap data.

It is possible to determine P r P P m P P P m P m using population frequency information from databases such as dbSNP. Also as mentioned previously choose SNPs for which the assumption of intra haploid independence is a reasonable one. That is assume that

Conditional on whether a locus is heterozygous or homozygous measurement errors may be modeled as independent and identically distributed across all similarly typed loci. Thus 

Note that the conditional probability distributions mentioned above P tilde over P tilde over m m P tilde over e e can vary widely from experiment to experiment depending on various factors in the lab such as variations in the quality of genetic samples or variations in the efficiency of whole genome amplification or small variations in protocols used. Therefore in a preferred embodiment these conditional probability distributions are estimated on a per experiment basis. We focus in later sections of this disclosure on estimating P tilde over e e but it will be clear to one skilled in the art after reading this disclosure how similar techniques can be applied to estimating P tilde over and P tilde over m m . The distributions can each be modeled as belonging to a parametric family of distributions whose particular parameter values vary from experiment to experiment. As one example among many it is possible to implicitly model the conditional probability distribution P tilde over e e as being parameterized by an allele dropout parameter pand an allele dropin parameter p. The values of these parameters might vary widely from experiment to experiment and it is possible to use standard techniques such as maximum likelihood estimation MAP estimation or Bayesian inference whose application is illustrated at various places in this document to estimate the values that these parameters take on in any individual experiment. Regardless of the precise method one uses the key is to find the set of parameter values that maximizes the joint probability of the parameters and the data by considering all possible tuples of parameter values within a region of interest in the parameter space. As described elsewhere in the document this approach can be implemented when one knows the chromosome copy number of the target genome or when one doesn t know the copy number call but is exploring different hypotheses. In the latter case one searches for the combination of parameters and hypotheses that best match the data are found as is described elsewhere in this disclosure.

Note that one can also determine the conditional probability distributions as a function of particular parameters derived from the measurements such as the magnitude of quantitative genotyping measurements in order to increase accuracy of the method. This would not change the fundamental concept of the invention.

It is also possible to use non parameteric methods to estimate the above conditional probability distributions on a per experiment basis. Nearest neighbor methods smoothing kernels and similar non parameteric methods familiar to those skilled in the art are some possibilities. Although this disclosure focuses parametric estimation methods use of non parameteric methods to estimate these conditional probability distributions would not change the fundamental concept of the invention. The usual caveats apply parametric methods may suffer from model bias but have lower variance. Non parametric methods tend to be unbiased but will have higher variance.

Note that it should be obvious to one skilled in the art after reading this disclosure how one could use quantitative information instead of explicit allele calls in order to apply the PS method to making reliable allele calls and this would not change the essential concepts of the disclosure.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the algorithm for allele calling can be structured so that it can be executed in a more computationally efficient fashion. In this section the equations are re derived for allele calling via the MAP method this time reformulating the equations so that they reflect such a computationally efficient method of calculating the result.

D x y z B H is the set of unordered measurement data on father mother embryo b blastomeres and h sperm samples. D x y z H B is the data set restricted to the i th SNP.

r A Crepresents a candidate 4 tuple of ordered values on both the mother and father at a particular locus.

Q 2 2b h is the effective number of haploid chromosomes being measured excluding the parents. Any hypothesis about the parental origin of all measured data excluding the parents themselves requires that Q crossover maps be specified.

 1 2is a crossover map matrix representing a hypothesis about the parental origin of all measured data excluding the parents. Note that there are 2different crossover matrices. is the matrix restricted to the i th row. Note that there are 2vector values that the i th row can take on from the set 1 2.

 x y z is a function of x y z that is being treated as a function of just x. The values behind the semi colon are constants in the context in which the function is being evaluated.

In one embodiment of the invention aneuploidy can be detected using the quantitative data output from the PS method discussed in this patent. Disclosed herein are multiple methods that make use of the same concept these methods are termed Copy Number Calling CNC . The statement of the problem is to determine the copy number of each of 23 chromosome types in a single cell. The cell is first pre amplified using a technique such as whole genome amplification using the MDA method. Then the resulting genetic material is selectively amplified with a technique such as PCR at a set of n chosen SNPs at each of m 23 chromosome types.

This yields a data set t i 1 . . . n j 1 . . . m of regularized ct ct or CT is the point during the cycle time of the amplification at which dye measurement exceeds a given threshold values obtained at SNP i chromosome j. A regularized ct value implies that for a given i j the pair of raw ct values on channels FAM and VIC these are arbitrary channel names denoting different dyes obtained at that locus are combined to yield a ct value that accurately reflects the ct value that would have been obtained had the locus been homozygous. Thus rather than having two ct values per locus there is just one regularized ct value per locus.

The goal is to determine the set n of copy numbers on each chromosome. If the cell is euploid then n 2 for all j one exception is the case of the male X chromosome. If n 2 for at least one j then the cell is aneuploid excepting the case of male X.

The relationship between ct values and chromosomal copy number is modeled as follows nQ2 QIn this expression nis the copy number of chromosome j. Q is an abstract quantity representing a baseline amount of pre amplified genetic material from which the actual amount of pre amplified genetic material at SNP i chromosome j can be calculated as nQ. is a preferential amplification factor that specifies how much more SNP i on chromosome j will be pre amplified via MDA than SNP 1 on chromosome 1. By definition the preferential amplification factors are relative to

 is the doubling rate for SNP i chromosome j under PCR. tis the ct value. Qis the amount of genetic material at which the ct value is determined. T is a symbol not an index and merely stands for threshold.

It is important to realize that and Qare constants of the model that do not change from experiment to experiment. By contrast nand Q are variables that change from experiment to experiment. Q is the amount of material there would be at SNP 1 of chromosome 1 if chromosome 1 were monosomic.

The original equation above does not contain a noise term. This can be included by rewriting it as follows 

In one embodiment of the method the maximum likelihood estimation is used with respect to the model described above to determine n. The parameter Q makes this difficult unless another constraint is added 

To avoid unnecessarily complicating the exposition set 1. This assumption will remain unless explicitly stated otherwise. In the general case in which each is different the solutions will be weighted averages instead of simple averages or weighted least squares solutions instead of simple least squares solutions. In that case the above linear system has the solution 

The above equations also reveal the solution under simpler modeling assumptions for example when making the assumption 1 for all i and j and or when making the assumption that for all i and j. In the simplest case when both 1 and the solution reduces to

In one embodiment of the invention it is possible to detect monosomy using double differencing. It should be obvious to one skilled in the art how to modify this method for detecting other aneuploidy states. Let t be the regularized ct values obtained from MDA pre amplification followed by PCR on the genetic sample. As always tis the ct value on the i th SNP of the j th chromosome. Denote by tthe vector of ct values associated with the j th chromosome. Make the following definitions 

The matched filter f is constructed as a double difference of values obtained from two controlled experiments. Begin with known quantities of euploid male genetic data and euploid female genetic material. Assume there are large quantities of this material and pre amplification can be omitted. On both the male and female material use PCR to sequence n SNPs on both the X chromosome chromosome 23 and chromosome 7. Let t i 1 . . . n j 7 23 denote the measurements on the female and let t similarly denote the measurements on the male. Given this it is possible to construct the matched filter f from the resulting data as follows 

The next step is to take noise into account and to see what remnants of noise survive in the construction of the matched filter f as well as in the construction of tilde over t . In this section consider the simplest possible modeling assumption that for all i and j and that 1 for all i and j. Under these assumptions from above log log log Which can be rewritten as 

Given that all the noise terms are zero mean the ideal matched filter is 1 1. Further since scaling the filter vector doesn t really change things the vector 1 can be used as the matched filter. This is equivalent to simply taking the average of the components of tilde over t . In other words the matched filter paradigm is not necessary if the underlying biochemistry follows the simple model. In addition one may omit the noise terms above which can only serve to lower the accuracy of the method. Accordingly this gives 

Again note that given the observation that each element of tilde over t is an independent measurement of

Now repeat the preceding analysis with respect to a biochemical model in which each and is different. Again take noise into account and to see what remnants of noise survive in the construction of the matched filter f as well as in the construction of tilde over t . Under the complicated model from above 

In another embodiment of the method one can average the CT values rather than transforming to exponential scale and then taking logs as this distorts the noise so that it is no longer zero mean. First start with known Q and solve for betas. Then do multiple experiments with known n j to solve for alphas. Since aneuploidy is a whole set of hypotheses it is convenient to use ML to determine the most likely n j and Q values and then use this as a basis for calculating the most likely aneuploid state e.g. by taking the n j value that is most off from 1 and pushing it to its nearest aneuploid neighbor.

In one embodiment of the invention it is possible to determine the conditional probabilities of particular embryonic measurements given specific underlying true states in embryonic DNA. In certain contexts the given data consists of i the data about the parental SNP states measured with a high degree of accuracy and ii measurements on all of the SNPs in a specific blastomere measured poorly.

Use the following notation U is any specific homozygote is the other homozygote at that SNP H is the heterozygote. The goal is to determine the probabilities p shown in Table 2. For instance pis the probability of the embryonic DNA being U and the readout being U as well. There are three conditions that these probabilities have to satisfy 1 1 1 2 3 The first two are obvious and the third is the statement of symmetry of heterozygote dropouts H should give the same dropout rate on average to either U or .

There are 4 possible types of matings U U U U H H H. Split all of the SNPs into these 4 categories depending on the specific mating type. Table 3 shows the matings expected embryonic states and then probabilities of specific readings p . Note that the first two rows of this table are the same as the two rows of the Table 2 and the notation p remains the same as in Table 2.

Probabilities pand pcan be written out in terms of pand p. 4 5 6 7 2 8 9 2 10 11 These can be thought of as a set of 8 linear constraints to add to the constraints 1 2 and 3 listed above. If a vector P p p p p p. . . p 16 1 dimension is defined then the matrix A 11 16 and a vector C can be defined such that the constraints can be represented as 12 C 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 . Specifically A is shown in Table 4 where empty cells have zeroes.

The problem can now be framed as that of finding P that would maximize the likelihood of the observations and that is subject to a set of linear constraints AP C . The observations come in the same 16 types as p. These are shown in Table 5. The likelihood of making a set of these 16 nobservations is defined by a multinomial distribution with the probabilities pand is proportional to 

In one embodiment of the invention the PS method can be applied to determine the number of copies of a given chromosome segment in a target without using parental genetic information. In this section a maximum a posteriori MAP method is described that enables the classification of genetic allele information as aneuploid or euploid. The method does not require parental data though when parental data are available the classification power is enhanced. The method does not require regularization of channel values. One way to determine the number of copies of a chromosome segment in the genome of a target individual by incorporating the genetic data of the target individual and related individual s into a hypothesis and calculating the most likely hypothesis is described here. In this description the method will be applied to ct values from TAQMAN measurements it should be obvious to one skilled in the art how to apply this method to any kind of measurement from any platform. The description will focus on the case in which there are measurements on just chromosomes X and 7 again it should be obvious to one skilled in the art how to apply the method to any number of chromosomes and sections of chromosomes.

The given measurements are from triploid blastomeres on chromosomes X and 7 and the goal is to successfully make aneuploidy calls on these. The only truth known about these blastomeres is that there must be three copies of chromosome 7. The number of copies of chromosome X is not known.

The strategy here is to use MAP estimation to classify the copy number Nof chromosome 7 from among the choices 1 2 3 given the measurements D. Formally that looks like this 

Unfortunately it is not possible to calculate this probability because the probability depends on the unknown quantity Q. If the distribution on Q were known then it would be possible to solve the following 

The goal is to classify the copy number of a designated chromosome. In this case the description will focus on chromosome 7. The MAP solution is given by 

Equation depends on being able to calculate values for P n n n i and P n n n i . These values may be calculated by assuming that the allele pattern n n is drawn i.i.d independent and identically distributed according to the allele frequencies for its letters at locus i. An example should suffice to illustrate this. Calculate P 2 1 n 3 under the assumption that the allele frequency for A is 60 and the minor allele frequency for C is 40 . As an aside note that P 2 1 n 2 0 since in this case the pair must sum to 2. This probability is given by

Equation depends on being able to calculate values for P t Q n and P t Q n . For this an error model is needed. One may use the following error model 

Each of the four cases mentioned above is described here. In the first case no signal is received even though there was A material on the locus. That is a dropout and its probability is therefore p. In the second case a signal is received as expected since there was A material on the locus. The probability of this is the probability that a dropout does not occur multiplied by the pdf for the distribution on the ct value when there is no dropout. Note that to be rigorous one should divide through by that portion of the probability mass on the Gaussian curve that lies below but this is practically one and will be ignored here. In the third case no signal was received and there was no signal to receive. This is the probability that no drop in occurred 1 p. In the final case a signal is received even through there was no A material on the locus. This is the probability of a drop in multiplied by the pdf for the distribution on the ct value when there is a drop in. Note that the 2 at the beginning of the equation occurs because the Gaussian distribution in the case of a drop in is modeled as being centered at . Thus only half of the probability mass lies below in the case of a drop in and when the equation is normalized by dividing through by one half it is equivalent to multiplying by 2. The error model for P t Q n by symmetry is the same as for P t Q n above. It should be obvious to one skilled in the art how different error models can be applied to a range of different genotyping platforms for example the ILLUMINA INFINIUM genotyping platform.

In one embodiment of the invention the MAP estimation mathematics can be carried out by brute force as specified in the final MAP equation except for the integration over Q. Since doubling Q only results in a difference in ct value of 1 the equations are sensitive to Q only on the log scale. Therefore to do the integration it should be sufficient to try a handful of Q values at different powers of two and to assume a uniform distribution on these values. For example one could start at Q Q2 which is the quantity of material that would result in a ct value of 20 and then halve it in succession twenty times yielding a final Q value that would result in a ct value of 40.

What follows is a re derivation of a derivation described elsewhere in this disclosure with slightly difference emphasis for elucidating the programming of the math. Note that the variable D below is not really a variable. It is always a constant set to the value of the data set actually in question so it does not introduce another array dimension when representing in MATLAB. However the variables Ddo introduce an array dimension due to the presence of the index j.

In one embodiment of the invention the disclosed method enables one to make aneuploidy calls on each chromosome of each blastomere given multiple blastomeres with measurements at some loci on all chromosomes where it is not known how many copies of each chromosome there are. In this embodiment the a MAP estimation is used to classify the copy number Nof chromosome where j 1 2 . . . 22 X Y from among the choices 0 1 2 3 given the measurements D which includes both genotyping information of the blastomeres and the parents. To be general let j 1 2 . . . m where m is the number of chromosomes of interest m 24 implies that all chromosomes are of interest. Formally this looks like 

Unfortunately it is not possible to calculate this probability because the probability depends on an unknown random variable Q that describes the amplification factor of MDA. If the distribution on Q were known then it would be possible to solve the following 

In practice a continuous distribution on Q is not known. However identifying Q to within a power of two is sufficient and in practice a probability mass function pmf on Q that is uniform on say 2 2. . . 2 can be used. In the development that follows the integral sign will be used as though a probability distribution function pdf on Q were known even though in practice a uniform pmf on a handful of exponential values of Q will be substituted.

N is the copy number of autosomal chromosome where 1 2 . . . 22. It is a random variable. n denotes a potential value for N.

Nis the copy number of chromosome j where for the purposes here j 1 2 . . . m. ndenotes a potential value for N.

H is the set of aneuploidy states. h H. For the purposes of this derivation let H paternal monosomy maternal monosomy disomy t1 paternal trisomy t2 paternal trisomy t1 maternal trisomy t2 maternal trisomy. Paternal monosomy means the only existing chromosome came from the father paternal trisomy means there is one additional chromosome coming from father. Type 1 t1 paternal trisomy is such that the two paternal chromosomes are sister chromosomes exact copy of each other except in case of crossover when a section of the two chromosomes are the exact copies. Type 2 t2 paternal trisomy is such that the two paternal chromosomes are complementary chromosomes independent chromosomes coming from two grandparents . The same definitions apply to the maternal monosomy and maternal trisomies.

D is the set of all measurements including measurements on embryo Dand on parents D D. In the case where these are TAQMAN measurements on all chromosomes one can say D D D. . . D D D D. . . D where D D D D D t t is the set of TAQMAN measurements on chromosome j.

tis the ct value on channel A of locus i of chromosome j. Similarly tis the ct value on channel C of locus i of chromosome j. A is just a logical name and denotes the major allele value at the locus while C denotes the minor allele value at the locus. 

Q represents a unit amount of genetic material after MDA of single cell s genomic DNA such that if the copy number of chromosome j is n then the total amount of genetic material at any locus of chromosome j is nQ. For example under trisomy if a locus were AAC then the amount of A material at this locus is 2Q the amount of C material at this locus is Q and the total combined amount of genetic material at this locus is 3Q.

 n n denotes an unordered allele patterns at a locus when the copy number for the associated chromosome is n. nis the number of times allele A appears on the locus and nis the number of times allele C appears on the locus. Each can take on values in 0 . . . n and it must be the case that n n n. For example under trisomy the set of allele patterns is 0 3 1 2 2 1 3 0 . The allele pattern 2 1 for example corresponds to a locus value of AC i.e. that two chromosomes have allele value A and the third has an allele value of C at the locus. Under disomy the set of allele patterns is 0 2 1 1 2 0 . Under monosomy the set of allele patterns is 0 1 1 0 .

The goal is to classify the copy number of a designated chromosome. For instance the MAP solution for chromosome a is given by

Equation depends on being able to calculate values for P n and P n the distribution of prior probabilities of chromosome copy number which is different depending on whether it is an autosomal chromosome or chromosome X. If these numbers are readily available for each chromosome they may be used as is. If they are not available for all chromosomes or are not reliable some distributions may be assumed. Let the prior probability

Equation depends on being able to calculate values for P h n and these are shown in Table 6. The symbols used in the Table 6 are explained below

Equation depends on being able to calculate values for p n n n i and P n n n i . These values may be calculated by assuming that the allele pattern n n is drawn i.i.d according to the allele frequencies for its letters at locus i. An illustrative example is given here. Calculate P 2 1 n 3 under the assumption that the allele frequency for A is 60 and the minor allele frequency for C is 40 . As an aside note that P 2 1 n 2 0 since in this case the pair must sum to 2. This probability is given by

Equation depends on being able to calculate values for p n n n h TT which are listed in Table 7. In a real situation LDO will be known in either one of the parents and the table would need to be augmented. If LDO are known in both parents one can use the model described in the Allele Distribution Model without Parents section.

Equation depends on being able to calculate p TT . The probabilities of the combinations of parental genotypes can be calculated based on the population frequencies. For example P AA AA P A and P AC AC Pwhere P 2P A P C is the probability of a diploid sample to be heterozygous at one locus i.

Equation depends on being able to calculate values for P t Q n and P t Q n . For this an error model is needed. One may use the following error model 

This error model is used elsewhere in this disclosure and the four cases mentioned above are described there. The computational considerations of carrying out the MAP estimation mathematics can be carried out by brute force are also described in the same section.

Once these building blocks are computed the overall integral may be calculated which takes time on the order of 2 t 2 t 9N m q. In the end it takes 2 m comparisons to determine the best estimate for n. Therefore overall the computational complexity is O N m q .

What follows is a re derivation of the original derivation with a slight difference in emphasis in order to elucidate the programming of the math. Note that the variable D below is not really a variable. It is always a constant set to the value of the data set actually in question so it does not introduce another array dimension when representing in MATLAB. However the variables Ddo introduce an array dimension due to the presence of the index j.

One way to determine the number of copies of a chromosome segment in the genome of a target individual by incorporating the genetic data of the target individual and related individual s into a hypothesis and calculating the most likely hypothesis is described here. In one embodiment of the invention the aneuploidy calling method may be modified to use purely qualitative data. There are many approaches to solving this problem and several of them are presented here. It should be obvious to one skilled in the art how to use other methods to accomplish the same end and these will not change the essence of the disclosure.

9. D c G x y c is the set of genotype calls on the chromosome. Note that the genotype calls depend on the no call cutoff threshold c.

10. is the genotype call on the k th SNP as opposed to the true value one of AA AB BB or NC no call .

11. Given a genotype call at SNP k the variables are indicator variables 1 or 0 indicating whether the genotype implies that channel X or Y has lit up . Formally 1 just in case contains the allele A and 1 just in case contains the allele B. 12. M g is the known true sequence of genotype calls on the mother. grefers to the genotype value at some particular locus. 13. F g is the known true sequence of genotype calls on the father. grefers to the genotype value at some particular locus. 14. n nare the true number of copies of A and B on the embryo implicitly at locus k respectively. Values must be in 0 1 2 3 4. 15. c care the number of A alleles and B alleles respectively supplied by the mother to the embryo implicitly at locus k . The values must be in 0 1 2 and must not sum to more than 2. Similarly c care the number of A alleles and B alleles respectively supplied by the father to the embryo implicitly at locus k . Altogether these four values exactly determine the true genotype of the embryo. For example if the values were 1 0 and 1 1 then the embryo would have type AAB. Solution 1 Integrate Over Dropout and Dropin Rates.

In the embodiment of the invention described here the solution applies to just a single chromosome. In reality there is loose coupling among all chromosomes to help decide on dropout rate p but the math is presented here for just a single chromosome. It should be obvious to one skilled in the art how one could perform this integral over fewer more or different parameters that vary from one experiment to another. It should also be obvious to one skilled in the art how to apply this method to handle multiple chromosomes at a time while integrating over ADO and ADI. Further details are given in Solution 3B below.

In this embodiment one first uses the ML estimation to get the best estimate of the cutoff threshold based on the data and then use this c to do the standard Bayesian inference as in solution 1. Note that as written the estimate of would still involve integrating over all dropout and dropin rates. However since it is known that the dropout and dropin parameters tend to peak sharply in probability when they are tuned to their proper values with respect to c one may save computation time by doing the following instead 

In this embodiment it is not necessary to integrate a second time over the dropout and dropin parameters. The equation goes over all possible triples in the first line. In the second line it just uses the optimal triple to perform the inference calculation.

The data across different chromosomes is conditionally independent given the cutoff and dropout dropin parameters so one reason to process them together is to get better resolution on the cutoff and dropout dropin parameters assuming that these are actually constant across all chromosomes and there is good scientific reason to believe that they are roughly constant . In one embodiment of the invention given this observation it is possible to use a simple modification of the methods in solution 3 above. Rather than independently estimating the cutoff and dropout dropin parameters on each chromosome it is possible to estimate them once using all the chromosomes.

Since data from all chromosomes is being combined use the subscript j to denote the j th chromosome. For example D c is the genotype data on chromosome j using c as the no call threshold. Similarly M Fare the genotype data on the parents on chromosome j.

For the sake of thoroughness a brief discussion of dropout and dropin rates is given here. Since dropout and dropin rates are so important for the algorithm it may be beneficial to analyze data with a known truth model to find out what the true dropout dropin rates are. Note that there is no single tree dropout rate it is a function of the cutoff threshold. That said if highly reliable genomic data exists that can be used as a truth model then it is possible to plot the dropout dropin rates of MDA experiments as a function of the cutoff threshold. Here a maximum likelihood estimation is used.

Another way to determine the number of copies of a chromosome segment in the genome of a target individual is described here. In one embodiment of the invention the genetic data of a sperm from the father and crossover maps can be used to enhance the methods described herein. Throughout this description it is assumed that there is a chromosome of interest and all notation is with respect to that chromosome. It is also assumed that there is a fixed cutoff threshold for genotyping. Previous comments about the impact of cutoff threshold choice apply but will not be made explicit here. In order to best phase the embryonic information one should combine data from all blastomeres on multiple embryos simultaneously. Here for ease of explication it is assumed that there is just one embryo with no additional blastomeres. However the techniques mentioned in various other sections regarding the use of multiple blastomeres for allele calling translate in a straightforward manner here.

Note that in this method the measurements on the mother and father are treated as known truth while in other places in this disclosure they are treated simply as measurements. Since the measurements on the parents are very precise treating them as though they are known truth is a reasonable approximation to reality. They are treated as known truth here in order to demonstrate how such an assumption is handled although it should be clear to one skilled in the art how the more precise method used elsewhere in the patent could equally well be used.

How to calculate each of the probabilities appearing in the last equation above has been described elsewhere in this disclosure. A method to calculate each of the probabilities appearing in the last equation above has also been described elsewhere in this disclosure. Although multiple sperm can be added in order to increase reliability of the copy number call in practice one sperm is typically sufficient. This solution is computationally tractable for a small number of sperm.

In another embodiment of the invention a similar method to determine the number of copies of a chromosome can be implemented using a limited subset of SNPs in a simplified approach. The method is purely qualitative uses parental data and focuses exclusively on a subset of SNPs the so called polar homozygotes described below . Polar homozygotic denotes the situation in which the mother and father are both homozygous at a SNP but the homozygotes are opposite or different allele values. Thus the mother could be AA and the father BB or vice versa. Since the actual allele values are not important only their relationship to each other i.e. opposites the mother s alleles will be referred to as MM and the father s as FF. In such a situation if the embryo is euploid it must be heterozygous at that allele. However due to allele dropouts a heterozygous SNP in the embryo may not be called as heterozygous. In fact given the high rate of dropout associated with single cell amplification it is far more likely to be called as either MM or FF each with equal probability.

In this method the focus is solely on those loci on a particular chromosome that are polar homozygotes and for which the embryo which is therefore known to be heterozygous but is nonetheless called homozygous. It is possible to form the statistic MM MM FF where MM is the number of these SNPs that are called MM in the embryo and FF is the number of these SNPs that are called FF in the embryo.

Under the hypothesis of euploidy MM MM FF is Gaussian in nature with mean and variance N where N MM FF . Therefore the statistic is completely independent of the dropout rate or indeed of any other factors. Due to the symmetry of the construction the distribution of this statistic under the hypothesis of euploidy is known.

Under the hypothesis of trisomy the statistic will not have a mean of . If for example the embryo has MMF trisomy then the homozygous calls in the embryo will lean toward MM and away from FF and vice versa. Note that because only loci where the parents are homozygous are under consideration there is no need to distinguish M1 and M2 copy errors. In all cases if the mother contributes 2 chromosomes instead of 1 they will be MM regardless of the underlying cause and similarly for the father. The exact mean under trisomy will depend upon the dropout rate p but in no case will the mean be greater than which is the limit of the mean as p goes to 1. Under monosomy the mean would be precisely 0 except for noise induced by allele dropins.

In this embodiment it is not necessary to model the distribution under aneuploidy but only to reject the null hypothesis of euploidy whose distribution is completely known. Any embryo for which the null hypothesis cannot be rejected at a predetermined significance level would be deemed normal.

In another embodiment of the invention of the homozygotic loci those that result in no call NC on the embryo contain information and can be included in the calculations yielding more loci for consideration. In another embodiment those loci that are not homozygotic but rather follow the pattern AA AB can also be included in the calculations yielding more loci for consideration. It should be obvious to one skilled in the art how to modify the method to include these additional loci into the calculation.

In order to demonstrate a reduction to practice of the PS method as applied to cleaning the genetic data of a target individual and its associated allele call confidences extensive Monte Carlo simulations were run. The PS method s confidence numbers match the observed rate of correct calls in simulation. The details of these simulations are given in separate documents whose benefits are claimed by this disclosure. In addition this aspect of the PS method has been reduced to practice on real triad data a mother a father and a born child . Results are shown below in Table 8. The TAQMAN assay was used to measure single cell genotype data consisting of diploid measurements of a large buccal sample from the father columns p p diploid measurements of a buccal sample from the mother m m haploid measurements on three isolated sperm from the father h h h and diploid measurements of four single cells from a buccal sample from the born child of the triad. Note that all diploid data are unordered. All SNPs are from chromosome 7 and within 2 megabases of the CFTR gene in which a defect causes cystic fibrosis.

The goal was to estimate in E1 E2 the alleles of the child by running PS on the measured data from a single child buccal cell e1 e2 which served as a proxy for a cell from the embryo of interest. Since no maternal haplotype sequence was available the three additional single cells of the child sample b11 b12 b21 b22 b22 b23 were used in the same way that additional blastomeres from other embryos are used to infer maternal haplotype once the paternal haplotype is determined from sperm. The true allele values T1 T2 on the child are determined by taking three buccal samples of several thousand cells genotyping them independently and only choosing SNPs on which the results were concordant across all three samples. This process yielded 94 concordant SNPs. Those loci that had a valid genotype call according to the ABI 7900 reader on the child cell that represented the embryo were then selected. For each of these 69 SNPs the disclosed method determined de noised allele calls on the embryo E E as well as the confidence associated with each genotype call.

Twenty 29 of the 69 raw allele calls in uncleaned genetic data from the child cell were incorrect shaded in column e1 and e2 Table 8 . Columns E E show that PS corrected 18 of these shaded in column E1 and E1 but not in column conf Table 8 while two remained miscalled 2.9 error rate shaded in column conf Table 8 . Note that the two SNPs that were miscalled had low confidences of 53.8 and 74.4 . These low confidences indicate that the calls might be incorrect due either to a lack of data or to inconsistent measurements on multiple sperm or blastomeres. The confidence in the genotype calls produced is an integral part of the PS report. Note that this demonstration which sought to call the genotype of 69 SNPs on a chromosome was more difficult than that encountered in practice where the genotype at only one or two loci will typically be of interest based on initial screening of parents data. In some embodiments the disclosed method may achieve a higher level of accuracy at loci of interest by i continuing to measure single sperm until multiple haploid allele calls have been made at the locus of interest ii including additional blastomere measurements iii incorporating maternal haploid data from extruded polar bodies which are commonly biopsied in pre implantation genetic diagnosis today. It should be obvious to one skilled in the art that there exist other modifications to the method that can also increase the level of accuracy as well as how to implement these without changing the essential concept of the disclosure.

To demonstrate the reduction to practice of certain aspects of the invention disclosed herein the method was used to call aneuploidy on several sets of single cells. In this case only selected data from the genotyping platform was used the genotype information from parents and embryo. A simple genotyping algorithm called pie slice was used and it showed itself to be about 99.9 accurate on genomic data. It is less accurate on MDA data due to the noise inherent in MDA. It is more accurate when there is a fairly high dropout rate in MDA. It also depends crucially on being able to model the probabilities of various genotyping errors in terms of parameters known as dropout rate and dropin rate.

The unknown chromosome copy numbers are inferred because different copy numbers interact differently with the dropout rate dropin rate and the genotyping algorithm. By creating a statistical model that specifies how the dropout rate dropin rate chromosome copy numbers and genotype cutoff threshold all interact it is possible to use standard statistical inference methods to tease out the unknown chromosome copy numbers.

The method of aneuploidy detection described here is termed qualitative CNC or qCNC for short and employs the basic statistical inferencing methods of maximum likelihood estimation maximum a posteriori estimation and Bayesian inference. The methods are very similar with slight differences. The methods described here are similar to those described previously and are summarized here for the sake of convenience.

Let X . . . X x . Here the Xare independent identically distributed random variables drawn according to a probability distribution that belongs to a family of distributions parameterized by the vector . For example the family of distributions might be the family of all Gaussian distributions in which case would be the mean and variance that determine the specific distribution in question. The problem is as follows is unknown and the goal is to get a good estimate of it based solely on the observations of the data X . . . X. The maximum likelihood solution is given by

Posit a prior distribution that determines the prior probability of actually seeing as the parameter allowing us to write X . . . X f x . The MAP solution is given by

Bayesian inference comes into play when . . . is multidimensional but it is only necessary to estimate a subset typically one of the parameters . In this case if there is a prior on the parameters it is possible to integrate out the other parameters that are not of interest. Without loss of generality suppose that is the parameter for which an estimate is desired. Then the Bayesian solution is given by 

Any one or some combination of the above methods may be used to determine the copy number count as well as when making allele calls such as in the cleaning of embryonic genetic data. In one embodiment the data may come from INFINIUM platform measurements x y where xis the platform response on channel X to SNP k of chromosome j and yis the platform response on channel Y to SNP k of chromosome j. The key to the usefulness of this method lies in choosing the family of distributions from which it is postulated that these data are drawn. In one embodiment that distribution is parameterized by many parameters. These parameters are responsible for describing things such as probe efficiency platform noise. MDA characteristics such as dropout dropin and overall amplification mean and finally the genetic parameters the genotypes of the parents the true but unknown genotype of the embryo and of course the parameters of interest the chromosome copy numbers supplied by the mother and father to the embryo.

In one embodiment a good deal of information is discarded before data processing. The advantage of doing this is that it is possible to model the data that remains in a more robust manner. Instead of using the raw platform data x y it is possible to pre process the data by running the genotyping algorithm on the data. This results in a set of genotype calls y where y NC AA AB BB. NC stands for no call . Putting these together into the Bayesian inference paradigm above yields 

circumflex over n circumflex over n are the estimated number of chromosome copies supplied to the embryo by the mother and father respectively. These should sum to 2 for the autosomes in the case of euploidy i.e. each parent should supply exactly 1 chromosome.

pand pare the dropout and dropin rates for genotyping respectively. These reflect some of the modeling assumptions. It is known that in single cell amplification some SNPs drop out which is to say that they are not amplified and as a consequence do not show up when the SNP genotyping is attempted on the INFINIUM platform. This phenomenon is modeled by saying that each allele at each SNP drops out independently with probability pduring the MDA phase. Similarly the platform is not a perfect measurement instrument. Due to measurement noise the platform sometimes picks up a ghost signal which can be modeled as a probability of dropin that acts independently at each SNP with probability p.

M Fare the true genotypes on the mother and father respectively. The true genotypes are not known perfectly but because large samples from the parents are genotyped one may make the assumption that the truth on the parents is essentially known.

In one embodiment of the invention platform response models or error models that vary from one probe to another can be used without changing the essential nature of the invention. The amplification efficiency and error rates caused by allele dropouts allele dropins or other factors may vary between different probes. In one embodiment an error transition matrix can be made that is particular to a given probe. Platform response models or error models can be relevant to a particular probe or can be parameterized according to the quantitative measurements that are performed so that the response model or error model is therefore specific to that particular probe and measurement.

Genotyping also requires an algorithm with some built in assumptions. Going from a platform response x y to a genotype g requires significant calculation. It is essentially requires that the positive quadrant of the x y plane be divided into those regions where AA AB BB and NC will be called. Furthermore in the most general case it may be useful to have regions where AAA AAB etc. could be called for trisomies.

In one embodiment use is made of a particular genotyping algorithm called the pie slice algorithm because it divides the positive quadrant of the x y plane into three triangles or pie slices . Those x y points that fall in the pie slice that hugs the X axis are called AA those that fall in the slice that hugs the Y axis are called BB and those in the middle slice are called AB. In addition a small square is superimposed whose lower left corner touches the origin. x y points falling in this square are designated NC because both x and y components have small values and hence are unreliable.

The width of that small square is called the no call threshold and it is a parameter of the genotyping algorithm. In order for the dropin dropout model to correctly model the error transition matrix associated with the genotyping algorithm the cutoff threshold must be tuned properly. The error transition matrix indicates for each true genotype called genotype pair the probability of seeing the called genotype given the true genotype. This matrix depends on the dropout rate of the MDA and upon the no call threshold set for the genotyping algorithm.

Note that a wide variety of different allele calling or genotyping algorithms may be used without changing the fundamental concept of the invention. For example the no call region could be defined by a many different shapes besides a square such as for example a quarter circle and the no call thresholds may vary greatly for different genotyping algorithms.

Presented here are experiments that demonstrate the reduction to practice of the method disclosed herein to correctly call ploidy of single cells. The goal of this demonstration was twofold first to show that the disclosed method correctly calls the cell s ploidy state with high confidence using samples with known chromosome copy numbers both euploid and aneuploid as controls and second to show that the method disclosed herein calls the cell s ploidy state with high confidence using blastomeres with unknown chromosome copy numbers.

In order to increase confidences the ILLUMINA INFINIUM II platform which allows measurement of hundreds of thousands of SNPs was used. In order to run this experiment in the context of PGD the standard INFINIUM II protocol was reduced from three days to 20 hours. Single cell measurements were compared between the full and accelerated INFINIUM II protocols and showed 85 concordance. The accelerated protocol showed an increase in locus drop out LDO rate from 

The entire aneuploidy calling method was performed on eight known euploid buccal cells isolated from two healthy children from different families ten known trisomic cells isolated from a human immortalized trisomic cell line and six blastomeres with an unknown number of chromosomes isolated from three embryos donated to research. Half of each set of cells was analyzed by the accelerated 20 hour protocol and the other half by the standard protocol. Note that for the immortalized trisomic cells no parent data was available. Consequently for these cells a pair of pseudo parental genomes was generated by drawing their genotypes from the conditional distribution induced by observation of a large tissue sample of the trisomic genotype at each locus.

Where truth was known the method correctly called the ploidy state of each chromosome in each cell with high confidence. The data are summarized below in three tables. Each table shows the chromosome number in the first column and each pair of color matched columns represents the analysis of one cell with the copy number call on the left and the confidence with which the call is made on the right. Each row corresponds to one particular chromosome. Note that these tables contain the ploidy information of the chromosomes in a format that could be used for the report that is provided to the doctor to help in the determination of which embryos are to be selected for transfer to the prospective mother. Note 1 may result from both monosomy and uniparental disomy. Table 9 shows the results for eight known euploid buccal cells all were correctly found to be euploid with high confidences 0.99 . Table 10 shows the results for ten known trisomic cells trisomic at chromosome 21 all were correctly found to be trisomic at chromosome 21 and disomic at all other chromosomes with high confidences 0.92 . Table 11 shows the results for six blastomeres isolated from three different embryos. While no truth models exist for donated blastomeres it is possible to look for concordance between blastomeres originating from a single embryo however the frequency and characteristics of mosaicism in human embryos are not currently known and thus the presence or lack of concordance between blastomeres from a common embryo is not necessarily indicative of correct ploidy determination. The first three blastomeres are from one embryo e1 and of those the first two e1b1 and e1b3 have the same ploidy state at all chromosomes except one. The third cell e1b6 is complex aneuploid. Both blastomeres from the second embryo were found to be monosomic at all chromosomes. The blastomere from the third embryo was found to be complex aneuploid. Note that some confidences are below 90 however if the confidences of all aneuploid hypotheses are combined all chromosomes are called either euploid or aneuploid with confidence exceeding 92.8 .

There are many techniques available allowing the isolation of cells and DNA fragments for genotyping as well as for the subsequent genotyping of the DNA. The system and method described here can be applied to any of these techniques specifically those involving the isolation of fetal cells or DNA fragments from maternal blood or blastomeres from embryos in the context of IVF. It can be equally applied to genomic data in silico i.e. not directly measured from genetic material. In one embodiment of the system this data can be acquired as described below. This description of techniques is not meant to be exhaustive and it should be clear to one skilled in the arts that there are other laboratory techniques that can achieve the same ends.

Adult diploid cells can be obtained from bulk tissue or blood samples. Adult diploid single cells can be obtained from whole blood samples using FACS or fluorescence activated cell sorting. Adult haploid single sperm cells can also be isolated from a sperm sample using FACS. Adult haploid single egg cells can be isolated in the context of egg harvesting during IVF procedures.

Isolation of the target single cell blastomeres from human embryos can be done using techniques common in in vitro fertilization clinics such as embryo biopsy. Isolation of target fetal cells in maternal blood can be accomplished using monoclonal antibodies or other techniques such as FACS or density gradient centrifugation.

DNA extraction also might entail non standard methods for this application. Literature reports comparing various methods for DNA extraction have found that in some cases novel protocols such as the using the addition of N lauroylsarcosine were found to be more efficient and produce the fewest false positives.

Amplification of the genome can be accomplished by multiple methods including ligation mediated PCR LM PCR degenerate oligonucleotide primer PCR DOP PCR and multiple displacement amplification MDA . Of the three methods DOP PCR reliably produces large quantities of DNA from small quantities of DNA including single copies of chromosomes this method may be most appropriate for genotyping the parental diploid data where data fidelity is critical. MDA is the fastest method producing hundred fold amplification of DNA in a few hours this method may be most appropriate for genotyping embryonic cells or in other situations where time is of the essence.

Background amplification is a problem for each of these methods since each method would potentially amplify contaminating DNA. Very tiny quantities of contamination can irreversibly poison the assay and give false data. Therefore it is critical to use clean laboratory conditions wherein pre and post amplification workflows are completely physically separated. Clean contamination free workflows for DNA amplification are now routine in industrial molecular biology and simply require careful attention to detail.

The genotyping of the amplified DNA can be done by many methods including MOLECULAR INVERSION PROBES MIPs such as AFFYMETRIX s GENFLEX TAG array microarrays such as AFFYMETRIX s 500K array or the ILLUMINA BEAD ARRAYS or SNP genotyping assays such as APPLIEDBIOSCIENCE s TAQMAN assay. The AFFYMETRIX 500K array MIPs GENFLEX TAQMAN and ILLUMINA assay all require microgram quantities of DNA so genotyping a single cell with either workflow would require some kind of amplification. Each of these techniques has various tradeoffs in terms of cost quality of data quantitative vs. qualitative data customizability time to complete the assay and the number of measurable SNPs among others. An advantage of the 500K and ILLUMINA arrays are the large number of SNPs on which it can gather data roughly 250 000 as opposed to MIPs which can detect on the order of 10 000 SNPs and the TAQMAN assay which can detect even fewer. An advantage of the MIPs TAQMAN and ILLUMINA assay over the 500K arrays is that they are inherently customizable allowing the user to choose SNPs whereas the 500K arrays do not permit such customization.

In the context of pre implantation diagnosis during IVF the inherent time limitations are significant in this case it may be advantageous to sacrifice data quality for turn around time. Although it has other clear advantages the standard MIPs assay protocol is a relatively time intensive process that typically takes 2.5 to three days to complete. In MIPs annealing of probes to target DNA and post amplification hybridization are particularly time intensive and any deviation from these times results in degradation in data quality. Probes anneal overnight 12 16 hours to DNA sample. Post amplification hybridization anneals to the arrays overnight 12 16 hours . A number of other steps before and after both annealing and amplification bring the total standard timeline of the protocol to 2.5 days. Optimization of the MIPs assay for speed could potentially reduce the process to fewer than 36 hours. Both the 500K arrays and the ILLUMINA assays have a faster turnaround approximately 1.5 to two days to generate highly reliable data in the standard protocol. Both of these methods are optimizable and it is estimated that the turn around time for the genotyping assay for the 500 k array and or the ILLUMINA assay could be reduced to less than 24 hours. Even faster is the TAQMAN assay which can be run in three hours. For all of these methods the reduction in assay time will result in a reduction in data quality however that is exactly what the disclosed invention is designed to address.

Naturally in situations where the timing is critical such as genotyping a blastomere during IVF the faster assays have a clear advantage over the slower assays whereas in cases that do not have such time pressure such as when genotyping the parental DNA before IVF has been initiated other factors will predominate in choosing the appropriate method. For example another tradeoff that exists from one technique to another is one of price versus data quality. It may make sense to use more expensive techniques that give high quality data for measurements that are more important and less expensive techniques that give lower quality data for measurements where the fidelity is not as critical. Any techniques which are developed to the point of allowing sufficiently rapid high throughput genotyping could be used to genotype genetic material for use with this method.

During whole genome amplification of small quantities of genetic material whether through ligation mediated PCR LM PCR multiple displacement amplification MDA or other methods dropouts of loci occur randomly and unavoidably. It is often desirable to amplify the whole genome nonspecifically but to ensure that a particular locus is amplified with greater certainty. It is possible to perform simultaneous locus targeting and whole genome amplification.

In a preferred embodiment the basis for this method is to combine standard targeted polymerase chain reaction PCR to amplify particular loci of interest with any generalized whole genome amplification method. This may include but is not limited to preamplification of particular loci before generalized amplification by MDA or LM PCR the addition of targeted PCR primers to universal primers in the generalized PCR step of LM PCR and the addition of targeted PCR primers to degenerate primers in MDA.

As noted previously given the benefit of this disclosure there are more embodiments that may implement one or more of the systems methods and features disclosed herein.

In all cases concerning the determination of the probability of a particular qualitative measurement on a target individual based on parent data it should be obvious to one skilled in the art after reading this disclosure how to apply a similar method to determine the probability of a quantitative measurement of the target individual rather than qualitative. Wherever genetic data of the target or related individuals is treated qualitatively it will be clear to one skilled in the art after reading this disclosure how to apply the techniques disclosed to quantitative data.

It should be obvious to one skilled in the art that a plurality of parameters may be changed without changing the essence of the invention. For example the genetic data may be obtained using any high throughput genotyping platform or it may be obtained from any genotyping method or it may be simulated inferred or otherwise known. A variety of computational languages could be used to encode the algorithms described in this disclosure and a variety of computational platforms could be used to execute the calculations. For example the calculations could be executed using personal computers supercomputers a massively parallel computing platform or even non silicon based computational platforms such as a sufficiently large number of people armed with abacuses.

Some of the math in this disclosure makes hypotheses concerning a limited number of states of aneuploidy. In some cases for example only monosomy disomy and trisomy are explicitly treated by the math. It should be obvious to one skilled in the art how these mathematical derivations can be expanded to take into account other forms of aneuploidy such as nullsomy no chromosomes present quadrosomy etc. without changing the fundamental concepts of the invention.

When this disclosure discusses a chromosome this may refer to a segment of a chromosome and when a segment of a chromosome is discussed this may refer to a full chromosome. It is important to note that the math to handle a segment of a chromosome is the same as that needed to handle a full chromosome. It should be obvious to one skilled in the art how to modify the method accordingly

It should be obvious to one skilled in the art that a related individual may refer to any individual who is genetically related and thus shares haplotype blocks with the target individual. Some examples of related individuals include biological father biological mother son daughter brother sister half brother half sister grandfather grandmother uncle aunt nephew niece grandson granddaughter cousin clone the target individual himself herself itself and other individuals with known genetic relationship to the target. The term related individual also encompasses any embryo fetus sperm egg blastomere blastocyst or polar body derived from a related individual.

It is important to note that the target individual may refer to an adult a juvenile a fetus an embryo a blastocyst a blastomere a cell or set of cells from an individual or from a cell line or any set of genetic material. The target individual may be alive dead frozen or in stasis.

It is also important to note that where the target individual refers to a blastomere that is used to diagnose an embryo there may be cases caused by mosaicism where the genome of the blastomere analyzed does not correspond exactly to the genomes of all other cells in the embryo.

It is important to note that it is possible to use the method disclosed herein in the context of cancer genotyping and or karyotyping where one or more cancer cells is considered the target individual and the non cancerous tissue of the individual afflicted with cancer is considered to be the related individual. The non cancerous tissue of the individual afflicted with the target could provide the set of genotype calls of the related individual that would allow chromosome copy number determination of the cancerous cell or cells using the methods disclosed herein.

It is important to note that the method described herein concerns the cleaning of genetic data and as all living or once living creatures contain genetic data the methods are equally applicable to any live or dead human animal or plant that inherits or inherited chromosomes from other individuals.

It is important to note that in many cases the algorithms described herein make use of prior probabilities and or initial values. In some cases the choice of these prior probabilities may have an impact on the efficiency and or effectiveness of the algorithm. There are many ways that one skilled in the art after reading this disclosure could assign or estimate appropriate prior probabilities without changing the essential concept of the patent.

It is also important to note that the embryonic genetic data that can be generated by measuring the amplified DNA from one blastomere can be used for multiple purposes. For example it can be used for detecting aneuploidy uniparental disomy sexing the individual as well as for making a plurality of phenotypic predictions based on phenotype associated alleles. Currently in IVF laboratories due to the techniques used it is often the case that one blastomere can only provide enough genetic material to test for one disorder such as aneuploidy or a particular monogenic disease. Since the method disclosed herein has the common first step of measuring a large set of SNPs from a blastomere regardless of the type of prediction to be made a physician parent or other agent is not forced to choose a limited number of disorders for which to screen. Instead the option exists to screen for as many genes and or phenotypes as the state of medical knowledge will allow. With the disclosed method one advantage to identifying particular conditions to screen for prior to genotyping the blastomere is that if it is decided that certain loci are especially relevant then a more appropriate set of SNPs which are more likely to cosegregate with the locus of interest can be selected thus increasing the confidence of the allele calls of interest.

It is also important to note that it is possible to perform haplotype phasing by molecular haplotyping methods. Because separation of the genetic material into haplotypes is challenging most genotyping methods are only capable of measuring both haplotypes simultaneously yielding diploid data. As a result the sequence of each haploid genome cannot be deciphered. In the context of using the disclosed method to determine allele calls and or chromosome copy number on a target genome it is often helpful to know the maternal haplotype however it is not always simple to measure the maternal haplotype. One way to solve this problem is to measure haplotypes by sequencing single DNA molecules or clonal populations of DNA molecules. The basis for this method is to use any sequencing method to directly determine haplotype phase by direct sequencing of a single DNA molecule or clonal population of DNA molecules. This may include but not be limited to cloning amplified DNA fragments from a genome into a recombinant DNA constructs and sequencing by traditional dye end terminator methods isolation and sequencing of single molecules in colonies and direct single DNA molecule or clonal DNA population sequencing using next generation sequencing methods.

The systems methods and techniques of the present invention may be used to in conjunction with embyro screening or prenatal testing procedures. The systems methods and techniques of the present invention may be employed in methods of increasing the probability that the embryos and fetuses obtain by in vitro fertilization are successfully implanted and carried through the full gestation period. Further the systems methods and techniques of the present invention may be employed in methods of decreasing the probability that the embryos and fetuses obtain by in vitro fertilization that are implanted and gestated are not specifically at risk for a congenital disorder.

Thus according to some embodiments the present invention extends to the use of the systems methods and techniques of the invention in conjunction with pre implantation diagnosis procedures.

According to some embodiments the present invention extends to the use of the systems methods and techniques of the invention in conjunction with prenatal testing procedures.

According to some embodiments the systems methods and techniques of the invention are used in methods to decrease the probability for the implantation of an embryo specifically at risk for a congenital disorder by testing at least one cell removed from early embryos conceived by in vitro fertilization and transferring to the mother s uterus only those embryos determined not to have inherited the congenital disorder.

According to some embodiments the systems methods and techniques of the invention are used in methods to decrease the probability for the implantation of an embryo specifically at risk for a chromosome abnormality by testing at least one cell removed from early embryos conceived by in vitro fertilization and transferring to the mother s uterus only those embryos determined not to have chromosome abnormalities.

According to some embodiments the systems methods and techniques of the invention are used in methods to increase the probability of implanting an embryo obtained by in vitro fertilization that is at a reduced risk of carrying a congenital disorder.

According to some embodiments the systems methods and techniques of the invention are used in methods to increase the probability of gestating a fetus.

According to preferred embodiments the congenital disorder is a malformation neural tube defect chromosome abnormality Down s syndrome or trisomy 21 Trisomy 18 spina bifida cleft palate Tay Sachs disease sickle cell anemia thalassemia cystic fibrosis Huntington s disease and or fragile x syndrome. Chromosome abnormalities include but are not limited to Down syndrome extra chromosome 21 Turner Syndrome 45X0 and Klinefelter s syndrome a male with 2 X chromosomes .

According to preferred embodiments the malformation is a limb malformation. Limb malformations include but are not limited to amelia ectrodactyly phocomelia polymelia polydactyly syndactyly polysyndactyly oligodactyly brachydactyly achondroplasia congenital aplasia or hypoplasia amniotic band syndrome and cleidocranial dysostosis.

According to preferred embodiments the malformation is a congenital malformation of the heart. Congenital malformations of the heart include but are not limited to patent ductus arteriosus atrial septal defect ventricular septal defect and tetralogy of fallot.

According to preferred embodiments the malformation is a congenital malformation of the nervous system. Congenital malformations of the nervous system include but are not limited to neural tube defects e.g. spina bifida meningocele meningomyelocele encephalocele and anencephaly Arnold Chiari malformation the Dandy Walker malformation hydrocephalus microencephaly megencephaly lissencephaly polymicrogyria holoprosencephaly and agenesis of the corpus callosum.

According to preferred embodiments the malformation is a congenital malformation of the gastrointestinal system. Congenital malformations of the gastrointestinal system include but are not limited to stenosis atresia and imperforate anus.

According to some embodiments the systems methods and techniques of the invention are used in methods to increase the probability of implanting an embryo obtained by in vitro fertilization that is at a reduced risk of carrying a predisposition for a genetic disease.

According to preferred embodiments the genetic disease is either monogenic or multigenic. Genetic diseases include but are not limited to Bloom Syndrome Canavan Disease Cystic fibrosis Familial Dysautonomia Riley Day syndrome Fanconi Anemia Group C Gaucher Disease Glycogen storage disease 1a Maple syrup urine disease Mucolipidosis IV Niemann Pick Disease Tay Sachs disease Beta thalessemia Sickle cell anemia Alpha thalessemia Beta thalessemia Factor XI Deficiency Friedreich s Ataxia MCAD Parkinson disease juvenile Connexin26 SMA Rett syndrome Phenylketonuria Becker Muscular Dystrophy Duchennes Muscular Dystrophy Fragile X syndrome Hemophilia A Alzheimer dementia early onset Breast Ovarian cancer Colon cancer Diabetes MODY Huntington disease Myotonic Muscular Dystrophy Parkinson Disease early onset Peutz Jeghers syndrome Polycystic Kidney Disease Torsion Dystonia

As noted previously given the benefit of this disclosure there are more aspects and embodiments that may implement one or more of the systems methods and features disclosed herein. Below is a short list of examples illustrating situations in which the various aspects of the disclosed invention can be combined in a plurality of ways. It is important to note that this list is not meant to be comprehensive many other combinations of the aspects methods features and embodiments of this invention are possible.

In one embodiment of the invention it is possible to combine several of the aspect of the invention such that one could perform both allele calling as well as aneuploidy calling in one step and to use quantitative values instead of qualitative for both parts. It should be obvious to one skilled in the art how to combine the relevant mathematics without changing the essence of the invention.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the disclosed method is employed to determine the genetic state of one or more embryos for the purpose of embryo selection in the context of IVF. This may include the harvesting of eggs from the prospective mother and fertilizing those eggs with sperm from the prospective father to create one or more embryos. It may involve performing embryo biopsy to isolate a blastomere from each of the embryos. It may involve amplifying and genotyping the genetic data from each of the blastomeres. It may include obtaining amplifying and genotyping a sample of diploid genetic material from each of the parents as well as one or more individual sperm from the father. It may involve incorporating the measured diploid and haploid data of both the mother and the father along with the measured genetic data of the embryo of interest into a dataset. It may involve using one or more of the statistical methods disclosed in this patent to determine the most likely state of the genetic material in the embryo given the measured or determined genetic data. It may involve the determination of the ploidy state of the embryo of interest. It may involve the determination of the presence of a plurality of known disease linked alleles in the genome of the embryo. It may involve making phenotypic predictions about the embryo. It may involve generating a report that is sent to the physician of the couple so that they may make an informed decision about which embryo s to transfer to the prospective mother.

Another example could be a situation where a 44 year old woman undergoing IVF is having trouble conceiving. The couple arranges to have her eggs harvested and fertilized with sperm from the man producing nine viable embryos. A blastomere is harvested from each embryo and the genetic data from the blastomeres are measured using an ILLUMINA INFINIUM BEAD ARRAY. Meanwhile the diploid data are measured from tissue taken from both parents also using the ILLUMINA INFINIUM BEAD ARRAY. Haploid data from the father s sperm is measured using the same method. The method disclosed herein is applied to the genetic data of the blastomere and the diploid maternal genetic data to phase the maternal genetic data to provide the maternal haplotype. Those data are then incorporated along with the father s diploid and haploid data to allow a highly accurate determination of the copy number count for each of the chromosomes in each of the embryos. Eight of the nine embryos are found to be aneuploid and the one embryo is found to be euploid. A report is generated that discloses these diagnoses and is sent to the doctor. The report has data similar to the data found in Tables 9 10 and 11. The doctor along with the prospective parents decides to transfer the euploid embryo which implants in the mother s uterus.

Another example may involve a pregnant woman who has been artificially inseminated by a sperm donor and is pregnant. She is wants to minimize the risk that the fetus she is carrying has a genetic disease. She undergoes amniocentesis and fetal cells are isolated from the withdrawn sample and a tissue sample is also collected from the mother. Since there are no other embryos her data are phased using molecular haplotyping methods. The genetic material from the fetus and from the mother are amplified as appropriate and genotyped using the ILLUMINA INFINIUM BEAD ARRAY and the methods described herein reconstruct the embryonic genotype as accurately as possible. Phenotypic susceptibilities are predicted from the reconstructed fetal genetic data and a report is generated and sent to the mother s physician so that they can decide what actions may be best.

Another example could be a situation where a racehorse breeder wants to increase the likelihood that the foals sired by his champion racehorse become champions themselves. He arranges for the desired mare to be impregnated by IVF and uses genetic data from the stallion and the mare to clean the genetic data measured from the viable embryos. The cleaned embryonic genetic data allows the breeder to select the embryos for implantation that are most likely to produce a desirable racehorse.

