---

title: System, method, and computer program for distributing payment to digital content owners
abstract: A system, method, and computer program are provided for distributing payment to digital content owners. In use, usage of digital content is identified, utilizing a source of the usage of the digital content. Further, a record of the usage of the digital content is transmitted to a central collection system, for use in distributing payment to an owner of the digital content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09311455&OS=09311455&RS=09311455
owner: Amdocs Software Systems Limited
number: 09311455
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20081007
---
The present invention relates to digital content usage and more particularly to payment for digital content.

Traditionally access to digital content has been provided in exchange for payment. For example digital content owners have generally required compensation from end users in exchange for allowing the end users to access the digital content. However traditional techniques for providing payment for access to digital content to the owners of the digital content have customarily exhibited various limitations.

A system method and computer program are provided for distributing payment to digital content owners. In use usage of digital content is identified utilizing a source of the usage of the digital content. Further a record of the usage of the digital content is transmitted to a central collection system for use in distributing payment to an owner of the digital content.

Coupled to the network is a plurality of devices. For example a server computer and an end user computer may be coupled to the network for communication purposes. Such end user computer may include a desktop computer lap top computer and or any other type of logic. Still yet various other devices may be coupled to the network including a personal digital assistant PDA device a mobile phone device a television etc.

As shown a system is provided including at least one central processor which is connected to a communication bus . The system also includes main memory e.g. random access memory RAM etc. . The system also includes a graphics processor and a display .

The system may also include a secondary storage . The secondary storage includes for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disk drive etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner.

Computer programs or computer control logic algorithms may be stored in the main memory and or the secondary storage . Such computer programs when executed enable the system to perform various functions to be set forth below for example . Memory storage and or any other storage are possible examples of computer readable media.

As shown in operation usage of digital content is identified utilizing a source of the usage of the digital content. With respect to the present description the digital content may include any content of digital form that is capable of being used. For example the digital content may include digital audio e.g. music etc. digital video digital text digital images etc. As an option the digital content may include licensed digital content.

In one embodiment the usage of the digital content may include playback of the digital content. Just by way of example the digital content may be used by playing the digital content e.g. to a user etc. . The digital content may optionally be played utilizing a playback device e.g. a digital media player application etc. . Of course it should be noted that the usage of the digital content may include any visual and or audio presentation of the digital content.

Accordingly the source of the usage of the digital content may include a device utilized to present the digital content e.g. to a user etc. . Such device may include any of the devices described above with respect to for example. As another option the source of the usage of the digital content may include an application utilized to present the digital content. The device and or application may include the digital media player application described above for example.

In another embodiment the usage of the digital content may be identified by monitoring the usage of the digital content. For example the source of the usage of the digital content may be monitored for identifying the usage of the digital content. Thus a device and or application capable of being utilized to perform the digital content usage may be monitored.

As another option the source of the usage of the digital content may be monitored for identifying initiation of the usage of the digital content. As yet another option the source of the usage of the digital content may be monitored for identifying completion of the usage of the digital content. To this end identifying the usage of the digital content may include identifying the initiation and or completion of the usage of the digital content. It should be noted however that the usage of the digital content may be identified in any manner that utilizes the source of the usage of the digital content.

As also shown a record of the usage of the digital content is transmitted to a central collection system for use in distributing payment to an owner of the digital content. Note operation . With respect to the present description the record of the usage of the digital content may include any information indicating the usage of the digital content.

In one embodiment the record of the usage of the digital content may identify the digital content such as a name of the digital content and or any unique identifier of the digital content. In another embodiment the record of the usage of the digital content may identify a time date etc. of the usage of the digital content. For example the record of the usage of the digital content may identify a time of initiation and or completion of the usage of the digital content. Of course however such record may include any data associated with the usage of the digital content.

Furthermore the record of the usage of the digital content may be transmitted to the central collection system in any desired manner. As an option the central collection system may be remotely located with respect to the source of the usage of the digital content. Thus the record of the digital content may optionally be transmitted from the source of the usage of the digital content to the central collection system over a network e.g. such as any of the networks described above with respect to .

In one embodiment the record of the usage of the digital content may include an Internet protocol detail record IPDR . In addition the IPDR may be transmitted utilizing an IPDR streaming protocol IPDR SP . For example the IPDR may include that described at www.ipdr.org which is hereby incorporated by reference.

In another embodiment the record of the usage of the digital content may be transmitted utilizing a Java specification request e.g. JSR 190 application programming interface API . In yet another embodiment the record of the usage of the digital content may be transmitted utilizing an open cable application platform. As an option the open cable application platform may include that described at www.opencable.com which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Moreover the central collection system to which the record of the usage of the digital content is transmitted may include any system capable of receiving the record of the usage of the digital content for use in distributing payment to an owner of the digital content. Just by way of example the central collection system may include a server a database etc. As another example the central collection system may be integrated with a digital content provider allowing e.g. facilitating etc. the usage of the digital content. Thus the digital content provider may optionally store the digital content for usage thereof.

Still yet the owner of the digital content may include a licensor of the digital content. For example the owner of the digital content may own an intellectual property right e.g. copyright etc. with respect to the digital content. In one embodiment the owner of the digital content may license the digital content to the digital content provider 

To this end a record of the usage of the digital content may be transmitted to the central collection system such that the central collection system may distribute payment to the owner of the digital content for the usage of the digital content. As an option transmitting the record of the usage of the digital content may allow precise accounting associated with digital content based on actual usage of such digital content. Further such precise accounting may be utilized to distribute payment to the owner of digital content in proportion to the actual usage of the digital content.

In another optional embodiment the record of the usage of the digital content may be transmitted to the central collection system for use in distributing a report of the usage of the digital content to the owner of the digital content. Just by way of example the report may be transmitted to the owner even if the payment is not transmitted to the owner. Of course however the report may also be transmitted to the owner with the transmission of the payment.

The report may include information regarding the usage of the digital content as noted above in addition to any other information desired. In one embodiment the report may indicate the user of the digital content e.g. the user to which the digital content is presented etc. . In another embodiment the report may maintain an anonymity of the user.

More illustrative information will now be set forth regarding various optional architectures and uses in which the foregoing method may or may not be implemented per the desires of the user. It should be strongly noted that the following information is set forth for illustrative purposes and should not be construed as limiting in any manner. Any of the following features may be optionally incorporated with or without the exclusion of other features described.

As shown an end user device is in communication with a digital content provider . The end user device may include any device capable of using digital content. For example the end user device may include a mobile device a workstation and or any of the other devices described above with respect to .

In addition the digital content provider may include any device capable of providing access to therefore usage of digital content. In one embodiment the digital content provider may include a server. Thus while only one end user device is shown it should be noted that a plurality of end user devices may also be in communication with the digital content provider for using content provided by the digital content provider in another embodiment.

As an option the digital content provider may store any number of different digital contents e.g. digital song digital video etc. . For example the digital content provider may store digital content in a database not shown . Further the digital content may be owned by a plurality of different digital content owners A C. The digital content owners A C may optionally license the digital content to the digital content provider e.g. in exchange for payment from the digital content provider .

To this end the end user device may use digital content stored by the digital content provider . As an option a user of the end user device may subscribe to a digital content providing service of the digital content provider such that the end user device may use the digital content via e.g. in accordance with the subscription. For example the user of the end user device may pay a subscription

As another option the end user device may use the digital content based on an advertisement sponsor of the digital content. Just by way of example an advertiser may sponsor any of the digital content stored by the digital content provider such that the digital content provider may provide advertising for the advertiser via the digital content providing service in exchange for the advertiser providing payment for such digital content. In this way the advertiser may sponsor usage of the digital content by the end user device . As another option the end user device may use the digital content in exchange for payment a fee particular to the digital content. Thus the payment may be made for each usage of the digital content. Thus a subscription fee a fee particular to the digital content an advertisement sponsored fee etc. may be paid for the usage of the digital content.

In one embodiment the end user device may access e.g. download etc. the digital content stored by the digital content provider . In another embodiment the end user device may use the digital content via a digital content playback device installed on the end user device . The digital content playback device may include any device and or application such as a media player capable of being utilized to present the digital content to a user via the end user device for example.

As an option digital rights management DRM associated with the digital content may control usage of the digital content. The digital content playback device may optionally read the DRM associated with the digital content e.g. embedded in the digital content etc. for example. In this way the digital content playback device may optionally control usage of the digital content based on the DRM.

In one embodiment the DRM may only allow usage of the digital content if it is determined that the end user device is at least periodically e.g. based on predetermined time limits etc. connected to the digital content provider . For example complete playback of the digital content may be prevented via the DRM if it is determined that the end user device has not connected to the digital content provider within a predetermined time period. As another example a quality of the playback of the digital content may be reduced if it is determined that the end user device has not connected to the digital content provider within a predetermined time period.

Moreover the end user device also includes a digital content usage monitor installed thereon as shown. The digital content usage monitor may include any application capable of monitoring usage of digital content by the end user device . For example the digital content usage monitor may monitor initiation and or completion of execution of the digital content playback device for identifying usage of digital content by the end user device .

In one embodiment the digital content usage monitor may be separate from the digital content playback device . In this way the digital content usage monitor may optionally monitor usage of digital content by any number of different digital content playback devices associated with the end user device . Of course in another embodiment the digital content usage monitor may be integrated in the digital content playback device such that each digital content playback device on the end user device may include a separate digital content usage monitor .

In response to identification of usage of digital content by the digital content usage monitor the digital content usage monitor transmits a record of such usage to the digital content provider . In one embodiment the record may be transmitted to the digital content provider over a network. In another embodiment the record may be transmitted utilizing any desired network protocol.

A collection system of the digital content provider receives the record of the usage of the digital content. The collection system may optionally include a database for storing the record. As an option the collection system may also be capable of identifying an owner of the digital content A C e.g. utilizing information included in the record etc. .

Furthermore a payment distributor of the digital content provider distributes payment to the owner of the digital content A C based on the record. For example the payment distributor may distribute payment for the identified usage of the digital content to the owner of the digital content A C. The payment may optionally be predetermined based on a contract between the digital content owner A C and the digital content provider . For example the contract may indicate whether the payment is to be made after each usage of the digital content after a predetermined period of time e.g. a month etc. during which the digital content is used etc.

Thus in one embodiment the digital content provider may distribute the payment after each usage of the digital content. In another embodiment the digital content provider may distribute the payment on a monthly basis for all content usage during the associated month. Accordingly the digital content provider may maintain accurate records of the usage of the digital content for distributing payment for such usage to the digital content owner A C. To this end a payment may be distributed by the digital content provider to a digital content owner A C based on actual usage of digital content owned by the A C.

As shown in operation usage of a digital content is monitored. In one embodiment the usage of digital content may be monitored by monitoring initiation and or completion of execution of a device utilized to perform the digital content usage e.g. utilized to play back digital content . For example the usage of the digital content may be monitored utilizing the digital content usage monitor of .

In addition it is determined whether usage of the digital content is identified as shown in decision . As an option the usage of the digital content may be identified based on the monitoring of the usage of the digital content. In one embodiment usage of the digital content may be identified in response to a determination that execution of a device utilized for presenting the digital content e.g. audibly and or visually has been initiated and or completed.

If it is determined that usage of the digital content is not identified the method continues to monitor usage of the digital content operation . If however it is determined that usage of the digital content is identified the usage of the digital content is recorded. Note operation . With respect to the present embodiment the usage of the digital content may be recorded in a record. Thus the record may indicate the usage of the digital content.

Further the record of the usage of the digital content is transmitted to a central collection system as shown in operation . In one embodiment the record may be transmitted over a network to the central collection system. In addition the record may be transmitted utilizing any desired protocol e.g. IPDR SP etc. .

Moreover with respect to the present embodiment the record may be transmitted for use in distributing payment to an owner of the digital content. Just by way of example as described in more detail with respect to the central collection system may distribute payment to the owner of the digital content in response to receipt of the record indicating usage of the digital content.

As shown in decision it is determined whether a record of usage of digital content has been received. The record may indicate any usage of digital content e.g. by an end user device etc. for example. Thus the record may be received from any one of a plurality of sources of usage of digital content.

If it is determined that a record of usage of digital content has not been received the method continues to wait for such a record to be received. If however it is determined that a record of usage of digital content has been received an owner of the digital content is identified. Note operation . The owner may include an owner of an intellectual property right to the digital content for example.

In one embodiment the owner of the digital content may be identified utilizing the record. As an option the record may indicate the owner of the digital content. As another option a unique identifier of the digital content included in the record may be utilized to identify the owner of the digital content e.g. via lookup table that maps unique identifiers of digital content to an owners of the digital content etc. . Of course however the owner of the digital content may be identified in any desired manner.

Further payment for the usage of the digital content is identified as shown in operation . Identifying the payment may include identifying a payment amount associated with usage of the digital content. Thus an amount to be paid to the owner of the digital content may optionally be identified.

In one embodiment the payment may be identified based on a contract with the owner of the digital content. For example each different digital content may be associated with a different payment. As another example each different owner of digital content may be associated with a different payment. Of course however the payment may be identified utilizing any predetermined pricing scheme.

In another embodiment the payment may be identified utilizing a lookup table. As an option the lookup table may map the unique identifier of the digital content e.g. identified via the record to the payment. As another option the lookup table may map an identifier of the owner of the digital content to the payment.

Moreover as shown in operation the payment is distributed to the owner of the digital content. The payment may be distributed to the owner of the digital content in any desired manner. In one embodiment the payment may be distributed to the owner of the digital content via a billing system. To this end payment may be made to the owner of the digital content response to actual usage of digital content indicated by a record received from a source of the usage of the digital content.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

