---

title: Systems and methods for application programming interfaces for shipping services
abstract: Systems and methods provide shipping services information. In one implementation, a method is provided in which an e-commerce server receives a request for shipping information from an end-user. The e-commerce server generates an extensible markup language (XML) request based on the requested shipping information and sends the XML request to an application programming interface (API) server. The API server determines, based on the XML request, one of a plurality of API modules stored in the API server to process the XML request and generates an XML response based on data included in the XML request. The API server sends the XML response to the e-commerce server, which sends the XML response to the end-user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08676671&OS=08676671&RS=08676671
owner: United States Postal Service
number: 08676671
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081204
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 344 992 filed Dec. 9 2003 now abandoned which is a national stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT International Application No. PCT US01 26656 filed Aug. 27 2001 and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 227 903 filed Aug. 25 2000 by Stuart Willoughby and entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACES FOR SHIPPING SERVICES the entire disclosure of which is all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates to providing an internet customer with information relative to shipping services using application programming interfaces API s or Web Tools API supplied by the United States Postal Service USPS . The API s are designed to allow electronic commerce e commerce entities to generate requests and to send them over the network to servers for access to USPS shipping information. E commerce entities may include multi carriers electronic retailers e tailers electronic shopping malls auction houses or third party vendors that buy in broker services over a network. The network is preferably the Internet however any type of network known to those skilled in the art may be used.

Currently a person desiring to send a package to a recipient may take the package to a mailing point where she is provided information about the various shipping options and costs of shipping. The person selects a shipping option pays the mailer for the cost of shipping receives a label that is applied to the package and the package is then placed into a mail stream. One such example of a mail stream is the mail stream provided by the USPS. Alternatively a person may contact a mailing company. The mailing company provides to the person information about the various shipping options and costs of shipping. The person selects a shipping option pays the mailing company for the cost of shipping and gives the package to a mailer associated with the mailing company. The mailer then generates a label and applies it to the package. Thereafter the mailer places the package into the mail stream. Either way the person must wait to be informed of the cost of mailing the package and or wait to pay for the mailing label before the package may be sent.

With the advent of e commerce electronic shoppers e shoppers may make purchases from e commerce entities over the network. It is advantageous to the e commerce entities to have e shoppers to stay on their web sites and buy more items instead of having to make separate arrangements for receiving information for shipping or returning a purchased item. It is advantageous to the e shoppers to have the ability to receive shipping labels electronically for application to a packaged item or to request that an e commerce entity package and ship a purchased item.

It is accordingly an object of an embodiment of the invention to provide e commerce entities with access to USPS shipping services information. The e commerce entities may in turn provide such information to e shoppers thereby allowing e shoppers to request and receive information about the various shipping options and the cost of mailing an item. In addition the e shoppers may purchase mailing labels delivery confirmation labels or request merchandise return labels. The shipping options may include services such as Express Mail Priority Mail and Parcel Posts etc. The shipping services information may include domestic and international postal rates service standards addressing information mailing labels merchandise return labels delivery confirmation labels etc.

This is achieved by providing to e commerce entities a collection of API s which provide access to servers having USPS shipping information. The servers may include for example one or more USPS servers. These API s may be coded in a language which is independent of operating system and hardware implementation. Preferably the API s are implemented in Extensible Markup Language XML however they are not limited to language and could be written in any programming language known to those skilled in the art.

An e commerce entity may utilize the API s to make a request to a USPS server over the network for shipping information. For convenience the USPS server will be referred to herein as the Web Tools API Server. The Web Tools API server receives the request generates a response to the request and sends the response over the network to the e commerce entity. The response may include the requested shipping information.

In accordance with the invention systems and methods are disclosed for providing shipping services information over a network by providing instructions to a first server from a second server which permits the first server to access the shipping services information residing on the second server over the network. The first server receives a request from a client for the shipping services information residing on the second server. Thereafter the second server provides the requested shipping services information from the second server to the client through the first server.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification illustrate embodiments of the invention and together with the description serve to explain the principles of the invention.

Reference will now be made in detail to an exemplary embodiment of the invention an example of which is illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. For convenience an e shopper will be described herein as an end user. 

Operation of end user client system is generally controlled and coordinated by operating system software . Operating system controls allocation of system resources and performs tasks such as memory management process scheduling networking and services among other things.

Mass storage may include a computer readable medium such as a disk drive and a compact disc CD drive or a read write CD drive. From the CD drive or the read write CD drive software and data may be loaded onto the disk drive which may then be copied into memory . Similarly software and data in memory may be copied onto the disk drive which may then be loaded onto a read write CD drive.

Network interface module may include hardware and software for sending and receiving data over network . End user client system may communicate with an e commerce server system over network through network interface module .

E commerce server system may include a processor CPU which connects over a bus to a memory a mass storage and a network interface module . Memory may include one or more API modules in the Web Tools API suite integrated with an e commerce entity s application software and operating system each of which will be described below in detail.

Operation of e commerce server system is generally controlled and coordinated by operating system software . Operating system controls allocation of system resources and performs tasks such as memory management process scheduling networking and services among other things.

Mass storage may include a computer readable medium such as a disk drive and a CD drive or a read write CD drive. From the CD drive or the read write CD drive software and data may be loaded onto the disk drive which may then be copied into memory . Similarly software and data in memory may be copied onto the disk drive which may then be loaded onto a read write CD drive.

Network interface module may include hardware and software for sending and receiving data over network . E commerce server system may communicate with a plurality of end user client systems and or one or more Web Tools API server systems over network through network interface module . Alternatively e commerce server system may communicate with one or more Web Tools API server systems over network through a firewall via network interface module .

Web Tools API server system may include a processor CPU which connects over a bus to a memory a mass storage a network interface module and one or more shipping information databases . Memory may include API server module standard API modules and operating system each of which will be described below in detail.

Operation of Web Tools API server system is generally controlled and coordinated by operating system software . Operating system controls allocation of system resources and performs tasks such as memory management process scheduling networking and services among other things.

Mass storage may include a computer readable medium such as a disk drive and a CD drive or a read write CD drive. From the CD drive or the read write CD drive software and data may be loaded onto the disk drive which may then be copied into memory . Similarly software and data in memory may be copied onto the disk drive which may then be loaded onto a read write CD drive.

Network interface module may include hardware and software for sending and receiving data over network . Web Tools API server system may communicate with a plurality of e commerce server systems over network through network interface module . Alternatively Web Tools API server system may communicate with a plurality of e commerce server systems over network through a firewall via network interface module . In addition the Web Tools API server system may send and or receive shipping information to from one or more shipping information databases . Optionally the Web Tools API server system may communicate with one or more tracking servers over network through network interface module to request and receive information from one or more tracking databases .

In one example an e commerce entity may make a request to an API provider for one or more API modules in the Web Tools API suite. The API provider may include for example the USPS. The e commerce entity registers with the API provider and receives a username and password for connecting to a Web Tools API Server . The API provider may send the requested API modules to the e commerce entity by any known delivery method. For example the API provider may send the requested API modules by an email or by placing the API modules on a CD or floppy disk and mailing them to the e commerce entity. In another example the API provider may access an API server module on a Web Tools API server to send the requested API modules over a network to an e commerce server specified by the e commerce entity. Thereafter the e commerce entity may integrate the API modules with its application software on one or more e commerce servers to generate Extensible Markup Language XML requests to the Web Tools API server for shipping information. The API modules may provide for processing multiple requests within a single transaction.

Once the API modules are integrated with application software of an e commerce server an end user may access the e commerce server over a network through a client system and make a request for information for example a request for a merchandise return label. E commerce server generates an XML request based on the request from the end user. Thereafter ecommerce server sends the request to the Web Tools API server . Web Tools API server receives the request and calls an appropriate standard API module to processes the request. Once the request is processed Web Tools API server sends an XML response back to e commerce server . E commerce server may send the XML response back to the end user at client system through network . If e commerce server detects an error condition in the XML response it may notify the end user of the error condition. Otherwise e commerce server retrieves the requested information from the XML response and sends it to the end user in this example the merchandise return label is sent to the end user.

Next e commerce server may make a network connection to a Web Tools API server stage . The USPS may provide to an e commerce entity example integration source code that may be used by an e commerce server to connect to a Web Tools API server .

Thereafter e commerce server sends the XML request to a Web Tools API server through network stage . The Web Tools API server receives the XML request and determines based on the XML request which API within the standard API modules to call to process the request. Next API server module calls the applicable API in the standard API modules to process the request and sends an XML response to the e commerce server through network . E commerce server receives the XML response from the Web Tools API server through network stage . The XML response may include one or more tags that specify a type for the response and one or more tags that include the requested information. The format of an XML response for each API is described below in detail.

E commerce server determines based on the XML response whether an error occurred during the processing of the XML request by the Web Tools API server stage . If an error occurred Yes e commerce server generates an error status based on the XML response and sends it to client system through network stage . Client system may display the error status to the end user through browser software module . Otherwise No e commerce server may generate a reply response based on the XML response and send it to client system through network stage . Client system may display the reply response to the end user through browser software module or user interface module . Alternatively e commerce server sends the XML response received from Web Tools API server to client system through network .

As shown in an end user accesses an e commerce server over a network through a client system and makes a request to return a purchased item to a retailer. E commerce server may provide to the end user based on information supplied by the end user a list of items that were purchased. The end user may select from the list one or more items to return. For purposes of this example the end user selects a single item. Thereafter e commerce server may determine whether the end user has permission to return the selected item and if so whether the item requires insurance for shipping. If the end user has permission to return the selected item to the retailer e commerce server generates an XML request based on the information supplied by the end user and the selected item.

The request includes for example the name and address of the customer who purchased the item name and address of the retailer who sold the item service type permit information Postage Due Unit PDU information label image type insurance value package weight return materials authorization RMA and mailing acknowledgement. The mailing acknowledgement is an optional service that provides a customer with an acknowledgement when an item is returned delivered to a retailer. The e commerce entity may be required to register with the USPS to receive a user ID and password to allow e commerce server to provide a valid user ID and password in each XML request.

Thereafter e commerce server sends the XML request to a Web Tools API server through network stage . Web Tools API server receives the XML request and may call a merchandise return API module to generate a merchandise return label based on the XML request. The merchandise return label may for example be in Portable Document Format PDF or Tagged Image File TIF format which is determined by the value supplied in the Label Image Type tag in the XML request. Next merchandise return API module generates an XML response which includes the merchandise return label. The merchandise return label may include forwarding information such as address of the sender address of a recipient barcode RMA and an indication of pre paid postage.

However if Web Tools API server detects an error condition in processing a request from an e commerce entity the XML response includes information about the error. Thus if Web Tools API server detects an error condition it may generate an XML response with tags that may have the following format 

The number tag includes an error number generated by Web Tools API server . The source tag includes information about the source code component and API that generated the error condition on Web Tools API server . The description tag includes a description of the error.

After merchandise return API module generates the XML response Web Tools API server sends the XML response to the e commerce server through network . E commerce server receives the XML response and extracts the merchandise return label. E commerce server may send the merchandise return label to client system through network . Client system may display the merchandise return label to the end user. The end user may then print the merchandise return label and attach it to the packaged item. Alternatively e commerce server may fax the merchandise return label to the end user email the merchandise return label to the end user or mail it to the end user.

Thereafter e commerce server sends the XML request to a Web Tools API server through network stage . Web Tools API server receives the XML request stage . Next Web Tools API server may call a merchandise return API module to generate an XML response which includes the merchandise return label stage . Web Tools API server sends the XML response to e commerce server through network stage . E commerce server receives the XML response and extracts the merchandise return label stage . E commerce server sends the merchandise return label to the end user at client system through network stage . Client system displays the merchandise return label to the end user. The end user may then print the merchandise return label and attach it to the packaged item. Alternatively e commerce server may fax the merchandise return label to the end user email the merchandise return label to the end user or mail it to the end user.

In an alternate example the e commerce entity may request and receive a courtesy reply label instead of a merchandise return label. However unlike the merchandise return labels postage is not pre paid. The courtesy reply label will be described below in detail.

As shown in an end user accesses an e commerce server over a network through a client system and makes a request for rate information for shipping a package. In addition the end user supplies information about the package to be shipped the point of destination and in the case of domestic mailing the point of origin. E commerce server generates an XML request for the rate information based on the information supplied by the end user.

Thereafter e commerce server sends the XML request to a Web Tools API server through network . Web Tools API server receives the XML request and calls a rate calculation API module to process the request. Rate calculation API module queries a shipping information database for the requested rate information based on the XML request. Next rate calculation API module generates an XML response based on results of information returned from the query. For example if the request is for domestic rate information the XML response includes the following tags 

For example if the request is for international rate information the XML response includes the following tags 

After rate calculation API module generates the XML response Web Tools API server sends the XML response to e commerce server through network . E commerce server receives the XML response and extracts the rate information. E commerce server sends the rate information to the end user at client system through network . Client system may display the rate information to the end user.

Web Tools API server receives the XML request stage . Thereafter Web Tools API server calls a rate calculation API module to process the request stage . Rate calculation API module queries a shipping information database for the requested rate information based on the XML request. Next rate calculation API module generates an XML response based on results of information returned from the query. The XML response includes the requested rate information. Web Tools API server sends the XML response to e commerce server through network stage . E commerce server receives the XML response and extracts the rate information. E commerce server sends the rate information to the end user at client system through network stage . Client system may display the rate information to the end user.

As shown in an end user accesses an e commerce server over a network through a client system and makes a request for tracking information for a package and supplies information about the package such as a unique identification code or tracking ID. A tracking ID may also be referred to herein as a package identification code. E commerce server generates an XML request for the tracking confirmation information based on the information supplied by the end user.

Thereafter E commerce server sends the XML request to a Web Tools API server through network . Web Tools API server receives the XML request and calls a tracking confirmation API module to process the request. Tracking confirmation API module sends the XML request to a tracking server through network thereby forwarding the tracking data to tracking server . Tracking server queries one or more tracking databases for the requested tracking information based on the XML request. Next tracking server retrieves the tracking information from tracking database and sends it tracking confirmation API module through network . Tracking confirmation API module generates an XML response based on the tracking information received from tracking server .

After tracking information API module generates the XML response Web Tools API server sends the XML response to e commerce server through network . E commerce server receives the XML response and extracts the tracking information. E commerce server sends the tracking information to the end user at client system through network . Client system may display the tracking information to the end user.

Web Tools API server receives the XML request and calls a tracking confirmation API module stage . Tracking confirmation API module sends the XML request to a tracking server stage . Tracking server searches one or more tracking databases and retrieves the requested tracking confirmation information. Thereafter tracking server sends the tracking confirmation information to tracking confirmation API module through network stage . Next tracking confirmation API module generates an XML response based on the tracking confirmation information received from tracking server stage . Web Tools API server sends the XML response to e commerce server through network stage .

E commerce server receives the XML response and extracts the tracking confirmation information. E commerce server sends the tracking confirmation information to the end user at client system through network stage . Client system may display the tracking confirmation information to the end user. Alternatively Web Tools API server sends the tracking confirmation information instead of the XML response to e commerce server through network stage . Thereafter e commerce server sends the tracking confirmation information to the end user at client system through network stage .

As shown in an end user accesses an e commerce server over a network through a client system and makes a request for service commitment information for shipping a package from point A to point B and supplies information about the package to be shipped. The information supplied by the end user may include the point of origin A destination B and type of mail service for example Priority Mail. E commerce server generates an XML request for the service commitment information based on the information supplied by the end user.

For example the XML request for Parcel Post service standards which is a component of standard mail services includes the following tags 

Thereafter e commerce server sends the XML request to a Web Tools API server through network . Web Tools API server receives the XML request and calls a service commitment API module to process the request. Service commitment API module searches a shipping information database for the requested service commitment information based on the XML request. Next service commitment API module generates an XML response based on retrieved service commitment information.

After service commitment API module generates the XML response Web Tools API server sends the XML response to e commerce server through network . E commerce server receives the XML response and extracts the service commitment information. E commerce server sends the service commitment information to the end user at client system through network . Client system may display the service commitment information to the end user. Alternatively Web Tools API server sends the service commitment information instead of the XML response to e commerce server through network . Thereafter e commerce server sends the service commitment information to the end user at client system through network .

Web Tools API server receives the XML request and calls a service commitment API module to process the request stage . Service commitment API module searches a shipping information database for the requested service commitment information based on the XML request and retrieves the requested service commitment information. Next service commitment API module generates an XML response based on retrieved service commitment information stage . Web Tools API server sends the XML response to e commerce server through network stage . E commerce server receives the XML response and extracts the service commitment information. E commerce server sends the service commitment information to the end user at client system through network stage . Client system may display the service commitment information to the end user. Alternatively Web Tools API server sends the service commitment information instead of the XML response to e commerce server through network stage . Thereafter e commerce server sends the service commitment information to the end user at client system through network stage .

This API provides for an end user to request and receive a delivery confirmation barcode label for placement on either a Priority Mail or a Standard B mail item. An end user may obtain at no charge a delivery confirmation barcode label and a package identification code PIC . The PIC is a unique identifier associated with a delivery confirmation barcode. The delivery confirmation barcode allows a sender and a recipient of a Priority Mail or a Standard B mail item such as a package to obtain delivery confirmation information about the package s delivery based on the PIC. As the package travels through a mail stream such as that provided by the USPS the delivery confirmation barcode is scanned and the scanned information is stored in one or more tracking databases. Upon delivery of the package the delivery confirmation barcode is scanned again and the scanned information is stored in one of the tracking databases.

As shown in an end user accesses an e commerce server over a network through a client system and makes a request for a delivery confirmation barcode label and supplies information about the package on which the delivery confirmation barcode label will be placed. The information supplied by the end user may include information about the sender receiver package weight mail service type label image type etc. The mail service type specifies for example either Priority Mail or Standard B mail. The label image type specifies the format of the graphic image of the delivery confirmation barcode label. The label option indicates the type of information that is to be included in the label. E commerce server generates an XML request for the delivery confirmation barcode label based on the information supplied by the end user.

Thereafter e commerce server sends the XML request to a Web Tools API server through network . Web Tools API server receives the XML request and calls a delivery confirmation service API module to generate the requested delivery confirmation barcode label and to associate a PIC with the delivery confirmation barcode. Delivery confirmation service API module sends the PIC and other information such as the zip codes and package weight to a tracking server where the PIC and other information is stored in a tracking database . In addition delivery confirmation service API module generates an XML response based on the delivery confirmation barcode label and the PIC.

After delivery confirmation service API module generates the XML response Web Tools API server sends the XML response to e commerce server through network . E commerce server receives the XML response and extracts the delivery confirmation barcode label and the PIC. Alternatively Web Tools API server may directly send the delivery confirmation barcode label and the PIC to e commerce server instead of generating and sending an XML response. E commerce server sends the delivery confirmation barcode label and the PIC to the end user at client system through network . Client system may display the delivery confirmation barcode label and or the PIC to the end user.

Web Tools API server receives the XML request and calls a delivery confirmation service API module to process the request. Delivery confirmation service API module generates the requested delivery confirmation barcode label and associates a PIC with the delivery confirmation barcode stage . Delivery confirmation service API module sends the PIC and other information such as the zip codes and package weight to a tracking server where the PIC and other information is stored in a tracking database stage . In addition delivery confirmation service API module generates an XML response based on the delivery confirmation barcode label and the PIC stage . Next Web Tools API server sends the XML response to e commerce server through network stage .

E commerce server receives the XML response and extracts the delivery confirmation barcode label and the PIC stage . E commerce server sends delivery confirmation barcode label and the PIC to the end user at client system through network stage . Client system may display the delivery confirmation barcode label and or the PIC to the end user. Alternatively Web Tools API server sends the delivery confirmation barcode label and the PIC instead of the XML response to e commerce server through network stage . Thereafter e commerce server sends the delivery confirmation barcode label and the PIC to the end user at client system through network stage .

As shown in an end user accesses an e commerce server over a network through a client system and makes a request to return a purchased item to a retailer. E commerce server may provide to the end user based on information supplied by the end user a list of items that were purchased. The end user may select from the list one or more items to return. For purposes of this example the end user selects a single item. Thereafter e commerce server determines whether the end user has permission to return the selected item and if so whether the item requires insurance for shipping. If the end user has permission to return the selected item to the retailer e commerce server generates an XML request based on the information supplied by the end user and the selected item.

The request includes for example the name and address of the customer who purchased the item name and address of the retailer who sold the item service type permit information PDU information label image type insurance value package weight and RMA.

Thereafter e commerce server sends the XML request to a Web Tools API server through network stage . Web Tools API server receives the XML request and calls a courtesy reply label API module to generate the courtesy reply label based on the XML request. The courtesy reply label may for example be in PDF or TIF format which is determined by the value supplied in the Label Image Type tag. Next courtesy reply label API module generates an XML response which includes the courtesy reply label. For example the XML response includes the following tags 

After courtesy reply label API module generates the XML response Web Tools API server sends the XML response to e commerce server through network . E commerce server receives the XML response and extracts the courtesy reply label. E commerce server may send the courtesy reply label to client system through network . Client system may display the courtesy reply label to the end user. The end user may then print the courtesy reply label and attach it to the packaged item. Alternatively e commerce server may fax the merchandise return label to the end user email the merchandise return label to the end user or mail it to the end user.

Thereafter e commerce server sends the XML request to a Web Tools API server through network stage . Web Tools API server receives the XML request and calls a courtesy reply label API module to process the request stage . Next courtesy reply label API module generates an XML response which includes the courtesy reply label stage . Web Tools API server sends the XML response to e commerce server through network stage . E commerce server receives the XML response and extracts the courtesy reply label stage . E commerce server sends the courtesy reply label to the end user at client system through network stage . Client system displays the courtesy reply label to the end user. The end user may then print the courtesy reply label attach it to the packaged item and apply postage to the package. Alternatively e commerce server may fax the courtesy reply label to the end user email the courtesy reply label to the end user or mail it to the end user.

E commerce entities needing to validate address information provided by an e shopper or end user may use one or more of the address information service API s to check the address information provided by the e shopper or end user. Alternatively an end user may request the e commerce entity to provide a Zip code for a given city and state. The e commerce entity may send a request to the ZIP code lookup API which returns the requested ZIP code to the e commerce entity.

As shown in an end user accesses an e commerce server over a network through a client system and makes a request for address information such as the city and state information for a ZIP code specified by the end user. E commerce server generates an XML request for the address information based on the information supplied by the end user.

Thereafter e commerce server sends the XML request to a Web Tools API server through network . Web Tools API server receives the XML request and calls an address information service API module to process the request. Address information service API module searches a shipping information database for the requested address information based on the XML request. Shipping information database may include for example an address database. Next address information service API module generates an XML response based on retrieved address information.

After address information service API module generates the XML response Web Tools API server sends the XML response to the e commerce server through network . E commerce server receives the XML response and extracts the address information. E commerce server sends the address information to the end user at client system through network . Client system may display the address information to the end user. Alternatively Web Tools API server sends the address information instead of the XML response to e commerce server through network . Thereafter e commerce server sends the address information to the end user at client system through network .

Web Tools API server receives the XML request and calls an address information service API module to process the request stage . Address information service API module searches a shipping information database for the requested address information based on the XML request and retrieves the requested address information. Shipping information database may include for example an address database. Next address information service API module generates an XML response based on the retrieved address information stage . Web Tools API server sends the XML response to e commerce server through network stage . E commerce server receives the XML response and extracts the address information. E commerce server sends the address information to the end user at client system through network stage . Client system may display the address information to the end user. Alternatively Web Tools API server sends the address information instead of the XML response to e commerce server through network stage . Thereafter e commerce server sends the address information to the end user at client system through network stage .

In another example an end user accesses an e commerce server through a client system . The end user provides a delivery address to e commerce server for the shipment of a purchased item. E commerce server generates an XML request for the validation of the address information. Thereafter e commerce server sends the XML request to a Web Tools API server through network .

Web Tools API server receives the XML request and calls an address information service API module to process the request. Address information service API module searches a shipping information database for address information based on the XML request and using information from the address corrects errors or omissions to the address information in the XML request. Shipping information database may include for example an address database. Next address information service API module generates an XML response based on the address information and corrections to the address information.

Web Tools API server sends the XML response to the e commerce server through network . E commerce server receives the XML response and extracts the address information. E commerce server generates an XML request for a delivery confirmation label based on the address information. Thereafter e commerce server sends the XML request to a Web Tools API server over network .

Web Tools API server receives the XML request and calls a delivery confirmation service API module to generate the requested delivery confirmation barcode label and to associate a PIC with the delivery confirmation barcode. Delivery confirmation service API module sends the PIC and other information such as the zip codes and package weight to a tracking server where the PIC and other information is stored in a tracking database . In addition delivery confirmation service API module generates an XML response based on the delivery confirmation barcode label and the PIC. Web Tools API server sends the XML response to e commerce server through network . E commerce server may send the delivery label to the end user using any known delivery method.

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

