---

title: Metamaterial and dynamically reconfigurable hologram employing same
abstract: A negative index material (or metamaterial) crossbar includes a first layer of approximately parallel nanowires and a second layer of approximately parallel nanowires that overlay the nanowires in the first layer. The nanowires in the first layer are approximately perpendicular in orientation to the nanowires in the second layer. Each nanowire of the first layer and each nanowire of the second layer has substantially regularly spaced fingers. The crossbar further includes resonant elements at nanowire intersections between the respective layers. Each resonant element includes two fingers of a nanowire in the first layer and two fingers of a nanowire in the second layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09323217&OS=09323217&RS=09323217
owner: SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO., LTD.
number: 09323217
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20081229
---
This invention has been made with government support under Contract No. HR0011 05 3 0002 awarded by Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to holograms and in particular to dynamically reconfigurable metamaterial based holograms for generating three dimensional images.

Photographs compress images of three dimensional objects into flat two dimensional images displayed by a piece of paper and television and motion pictures also compress images of moving three dimensional objects into flat moving two dimensional images displayed on a screen. Photographs television and motion pictures are examples of media that display three dimensional objects as simply intensity mappings. In other words when an image of a scene is ordinarily reproduced in a photograph or motion picture a viewer does not see an accurate reproduction of the light scattered from the object but instead a viewer sees a point by point record of just the square of the electromagnetic radiation amplitude i.e. the intensity reflected from the object. For example the light reflected off a photograph carries with it information about the intensity of the object displayed by the photograph but nothing about the electromagnetic wavefronts that were once scattered from the object during the taking of the photograph. As a result a viewer only perceives a two dimensional image of the object. However when the electromagnetic wavefronts scattered from an object can be reconstructed for a viewer the viewer sees wavefronts that are indistinguishable from the wavefronts scattered from the original object. Thus the viewer is able to see a reformed three dimensional image of the object as if the object was actually before the viewer.

Holography is a method of recording and showing a still three dimensional image of an object using a hologram and ideally monochromatic light from a laser. A conventional hologram is a still record of intensity and wavefronts scattered from an object with respect to an incident reference light that contains point by point information for reproducing a three dimensional holographic image of the object but is not an image of the object. The hologram is used to reconstruct a three dimensional holographic image of the object in approximately the same position that the object was in when it was recorded. The holographic image changes as the position and orientation of the viewer changes. Thus the holographic image of an object appears three three dimensional to the viewer.

However a hologram can only be used to produce a single still three dimensional image of an object. The systems used to generate holograms and holographic images are bulky and the time and number of steps performed to produce a single hologram make current holographic methods and systems impractical for producing three dimensional motion pictures of objects. Thus it is desirable to have holographic methods and compact holographic systems that enable the production of full three dimensional motion pictures.

Various embodiments of the present invention relate to negative refractive index based systems that can be used as holograms and can be electronically controlled and dynamically reconfigured to generate one or more three dimensional motion pictures. The systems include a phase control layer and an intensity control layer. The phase control layer is composed of crossbar array that enables individual pixels to be electrically addressed and allows for pixelized phase modulation of refracted or reflected electromagnetic radiation. As a result the phase control and intensity control layers produce phase and intensity changes in refracted or reflected light that can be dynamically controlled pixel by pixel in order to dynamically display one or more three dimensional images.

Negative index materials NIMs also called metamaterials are materials with optical properties resulting from the structure of the material rather than from chemical composition of the material. Natural materials have positive permeability and may have positive or negative dielectric permittivity depending on the type of conductivity of the material and frequency ranges. In contrast NIMs have simultaneously negative and which results in optical properties that are different from those of ordinary composite materials. The optical properties of NIMs can be appreciated by comparing and contrasting the optical properties of NIMs with the optical properties of ordinary composite materials as described in by A. K. Sarychev and V. M. Shalaev World Scientific New York 2007 . For example consider Maxwell s first order differential equations for an electromagnetic wave propagating in an ordinary composite material with a time harmonic field as follows where right arrow over E is the electric field component right arrow over H is the magnetic field component j square root over 1 and is the angular frequency. The solutions of these equations are the plane wave fields exp exp Substituting the plane wave equations into Maxwell s first order differential equations gives the relations where right arrow over k is a wavevector indicating the direction an electromagnetic wave propagates within a composite material. shows the spatial relationship and relative orientation of the vectors right arrow over E right arrow over H and right arrow over k and reveals that for an ordinary composite material with positive and the vectors right arrow over E right arrow over H and right arrow over k form an orthogonal right handed system of vectors. In addition the direction of the time averaged energy flux of the electromagnetic wave is given by the real component of the Poynting vector 

Now consider the refraction of an incident ray at the interface between ordinary and left handed media. Based on the properties of electromagnetic waves travelling in NIMs described above it follows that unlike refraction observed in ordinary media the angles of incidence and refraction have opposite signs. Snell s law in NIMs becomes 

Tracing the paths of optical rays through conventional concave and convex lens made of left handed media reveals that concave lenses become convergent and convex lens become divergent thus reversing the behavior of lenses comprising ordinary media. shows focusing properties of a slab composed of a NIM for light emanating from a point source. For incident rays paraxial to an optical axis Snell s law gives 

In other embodiments the intermediate layer may be composed of discrete portions of a material lying within each resonant element. shows an isometric view of an enlargement of four adjacent resonant elements of a NIM crossbar configured in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The resonant elements include intermediate plus shaped layers respectively disposed within the region between the fingers of nanowires and overlaying nanowires and . As shown in adjacent plus shaped layers are separated by gaps and each plus shaped layer fills the space between the nanowire of one layer and the fingers of a nanowire in another layer. For example plus shaped layer is configured to fill the space between fingers and and nanowire and fill the space between fingers and and nanowire .

Embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the rectangular configurations for the fingers of the nanowires as shown in . In other embodiments the fingers can be elliptical circular square irregularly shaped or have more complex shapes dictated by design of supporting a magneto plasmon resonance and related NIM behavior over a particular frequency range. Although the fingers shown in have clearly defined edges in other embodiments the fingers may have rounded edges.

Although individual nanowires shown in have rectangular cross sections nanowires can also have square circular elliptical or more complex cross sections. The nanowires may be configured to have many different widths or diameters and aspect ratios or eccentricities ranging from approximately to approximately 1 20 of the wavelength of incident light or ranging from approximately 20 nm to approximately 200 nm. The term nanowire crossbar may refer to crossbars having one or more layers of sub microscale wires microscale wires or wires with larger cross sectional dimensions in addition to nanowires. The nanowires can be comprised of silver Ag gold Au copper Cu aluminum Al platinum Pt or another suitable electronically conducting metal or the nanowires can be composed of heavily doped semiconductors depending on the frequency of incident light.

The crossbar layers can be fabricated by mechanical nanoimprinting techniques. Alternatively nanowires can be chemically synthesized and can be deposited as layers of approximately parallel nanowires in one or more processing steps including Langmuir Blodgett processes with subsequent patterning. Other alternative techniques for fabricating nanowires may also be employed. Thus a two layer nanowire crossbar comprising first and second layers of nanowires as shown in can be manufactured by any of numerous relatively straightforward processes. Many different types of conductive and semi conductive nanowires can be chemically synthesized from metallic and semiconductor substances from combinations of these types of substances and from other types of substances. A nanowire crossbar may be connected to microscale address wire leads or other electronic leads through a variety of different methods in order to electronically couple the nanowires to electronic devices.

The resonant elements can be configured with dimensions that are smaller than the wavelength of light incident on the crossbar enabling the crossbar to be operated as a NIM over particular wavelength ranges. In particular the size and shape of the fingers can be selected to have an appropriate inductance resistance and capacitance response to the wavelengths of incident light on the crossbar. In addition because each resonant element can be separately addressed by biasing the pair of nanowires crossing at the selected resonant element the refractive index of the intermediate layer of each resonant element can be adjusted by applying appropriate voltages to the nanowires. The size and shape of the fingers and control over the refractive index of the intermediate layer of the resonant elements enables the crossbar to be configured and operated as a NIM over particular wavelength ranges and shift the transmission phase of light transmitted through the crossbar .

For light polarized in the y direction and incident on the crossbar in the z direction curves and of plot represent the real and imaginary refractive index components respectively over a range of wavelengths with no voltage applied to resonant elements of the crossbar . A portion of the real component indicates that the crossbar exhibits a negative refractive index for incident light with wavelengths ranging from approximately 1.42 m to approximately 1.55 m with the largest negative refractive index occurring for incident light with wavelengths of approximately 1.5 m. Curves and of plot represent the real and imaginary refractive index components with a 6 change in the refractive index when appropriate voltages are applied to the nanowires of the crossbar . Curve exhibits a real negative refractive index shift for incident light with wavelengths ranging from approximately 1.32 m to approximately 1.46 m with the largest negative refractive index occurring for incident light with wavelengths of approximately 1.4 m. In other words the crossbar can be operated to change the refractive index that incident light encounters over particular wavelength ranges. For example incident light with a wavelength of approximately 1.5 m encounters the strongest real negative refractive index component when no voltage is applied to the crossbar . However when appropriate voltages are applied to the nanowires the refractive index encountered by the incident light is shifted to a positive value as indicated by directional arrow .

A change in the refractive index encountered by incident light shifts the transmission phase of light transmitted through the crossbar. Curves of plot represent the transmission phase of light over a range of wavelengths passing through the crossbar for three different refractive indices. The transmission phase is the phase acquired by light transmitted through the crossbar . For example point indicates that light with a wavelength of approximately 1.58 m transmitted through the crossbar acquires a transmission phase of approximately 0.7 radians. Curve represents the transmission phase acquired by light over a range of wavelengths passing through the crossbar when no voltage is applied to the crossbar . Curve represents the transmission phase acquired by light over a range of wavelengths passing through the crossbar when voltages applied to the nanowires of the crossbar increase the refractive index of the intermediate layers by 3 . Curve represents the transmission phase acquired by light over a range of wavelengths passing through the crossbar when voltages applied to the nanowires of the crossbar decrease the refractive index of the intermediate layers by 3 . The crossbar can be operated to shift the phase acquired by transmitted light. For example when voltages corresponding to the curve are applied to the crossbar incident light with wavelengths of approximately 1.58 m acquire a transmission phase of approximately 1.78 radians which is a transmission phase shift of approximately 1.2 radians from the point to the point as indicated by directional arrow .

The refractive index of the materials selected for the intermediate layer of the resonant elements can vary according to the particular molecular configuration or electronic states of the material. The materials selected for the resonant elements exhibit an appreciable refractive index change in response to externally applied electric fields which can be used to control the resonant behavior of the phase shift as described above with reference to . In certain embodiments the material may transition reversibly from one state to another and back so that the resonant elements may be reconfigured or programmed by application of differential voltages to selected resonant elements. The molecules comprising the intermediate layers of the resonant elements may have various different states in which the molecules exhibit resistive semiconductor like or conductive electrical properties. The states and relative energies of the states of the intermediate layer materials may be controlled by applying differential current levels or voltages to the overlapping nanowires forming the resonant element. For example in certain embodiments certain states of the intermediate layer materials can be set by applying voltages to nanowires of a resonant element. In certain embodiments the applied voltages can change the oxidation or redox state of the intermediate layer material which induces a change in the refractive index of the resonant element. Additional circuit elements such as diodes transistors memristors capacitors and resistors for optimal performance such as multiplexing reducing crosstalk and leakage can be formed at resonant elements or a part of the nanowire crossbar. A nanowire crossbar can also be integrated with CMOS circuits.

In certain embodiments the refractive index of the resonant elements can be configured and operated as p n junctions in order to change the refractive index of the resonant elements by carrier injection. shows an isometric view of a resonant element configured with a p n junction intermediate layer in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The p n junction can be composed of a wide variety of semiconductor materials including various combinations of elemental and compound semiconductors. Indirect elemental semiconductors include silicon Si and germanium Ge and compound semiconductors include III V materials where Roman numerals III and V represent elements in the IIIa and Va columns of the Periodic Table of the Elements. Compound semiconductors can be composed of column IIIa elements such as aluminum Al gallium Ga and indium In in combination with column Va elements such as nitrogen N phosphorus P arsenic As and antimony Sb . Compound semiconductors can also be further classified according to the relative quantities of III and V elements. For example binary semiconductor compounds include semiconductors with empirical formulas GaAs InP InAs and GaP ternary compound semiconductors include semiconductors with empirical formula GaAsP where y ranges from greater than 0 to less than 1 and quaternary compound semiconductors include semiconductors with empirical formula InGaAsP where both x and y independently range from greater than 0 to less than 1. Other types of suitable compound semiconductors include II VI materials where II and VI represent elements in the IIb and VIa columns of the periodic table. For example CdSe ZnSe ZnS and ZnO are empirical formulas of exemplary binary II VI compound semiconductors.

As shown in p n junction includes a p type layer and an n type layer where the p type layer is doped with electron accepting impurities and the n type layer is doped with electron donating impurities. The impurities also called dopants can be atoms. The dopants can be p type impurities which are atoms that introduce vacant electronic energy levels called holes to the electronic band gaps of the p n junction . These impurities are also called electron acceptors. The dopants can be n type impurities which are atoms that introduce filled electronic energy levels to the electronic band gap of the p n junction . These impurities are called electron donors. For example boron B Al and Ga are p type impurities that introduce vacant electronic energy levels near the valence band of Si and P As and Sb are n type impurities that introduce filled electronic energy levels near the conduction band of Si. In III V compound semiconductors column VI impurities substitute for column V sites in the III V lattice and serve as n type impurities and column II impurities substitute for column III atoms in the III V lattice to form p type impurities. Moderate doping of the p type and n type layers can have impurity concentrations in excess of about 10impurities cmwhile heavier doping can have impurity concentrations in excess of about 10impurities cm.

The refractive index of the p n junction can be adjusted by varying the magnitude and type of bias applied to p n junction . For example a forward bias injects electrons into the n type layer and vacant electronic states called holes are injected into the p type layer. Under a reverse bias electrons are injected into the p type layer and holes are injecting into the n type layer. However once the bias is removed the electrons and holes are swept out of the layers and the p n junction returns to an unbiased electronic state. The refractive index of the p n junction is different under the forward reverse and no bias.

In other embodiments the resonant elements can be configured as memristors that can change and retain their resistance state even after the bias has been removed. Each resistance state corresponds to a different refractive index. shows an isometric view of a resonant element configured with an intermediate memristors layer in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The memristor layer includes a primary active region or layer and a secondary active region or layer . The primary active region comprises a thin film of a material that is electronically semiconducting or nominally electronically insulating and can also be a weakly ionic conductor. The primary active material is capable of transporting and hosting ions that act as dopants to control the flow of electrons through the resonator element . The basic mode of operation is to apply a voltage bias of an appropriate magnitude and polarity across the memristor layers at the junctions. The electrical field also called a drift field enables the motion of the dopants in the primary material to drift into or out of the primary material via ionic transport. The ionic species are specifically chosen from those that act as electrical dopants for the primary material and thereby change the rectifying state of the primary active material. The memristor layer can be placed in one of the four different types of rectifying states a forward rectifier a reverse rectifier a head to head rectifier and a shunted rectifier as shown in . Each of the rectifying states corresponds to a different refractive index.

In addition the primary active material and the dopants are chosen such that the drift of the dopants into or out of the primary active material is possible but not too facile in order to ensure that the memristor layer remains in a particular rectifying state for a reasonable period of time perhaps for many years at room temperature. This ensures that the memristor layer is nonvolatile. In other words the memristor layer holds its rectifying state i.e. keeps memory of its resistive state after the drift field has been removed. Applying a drift field with a large enough magnitude causes both electron current and dopant to drift whereas applying biases with lower relative voltage magnitudes than the drift field causes negligible dopant drift enabling the element to hold its rectifying state.

On the other hand the secondary active region comprises a thin film that is a source of dopants for the primary active material. These dopants may be impurity atoms such as hydrogen or some other cation such as alkali or transition metals that act as electron donors for the primary active material. Alternatively the dopants can be anion vacancies which in the primary active material are charged and therefore are also electron donors for the lattice. It is also possible to drive the anions into the primary active material which then become electron acceptors or hole donors.

The primary active material can be nanocrystalline nanoporous or amorphous. The mobility of the dopants in such nanostructured materials is much higher than in bulk crystalline material since diffusion can occur through grain boundaries pores or through local structural imperfections in an amorphous material. Also because the primary active material film is thin the amount of time needed for dopants to diffuse into or out of region of the film to substantially change the film s conductivity is relatively rapid. For example the time needed for a diffusive process varies as the square of the distance covered so the time to diffuse one nanometer is one millionth the time to diffuse one micrometer.

The primary active and secondary active regions and of the memristor layer are contacted on either side by nanowires or one of the nanowires can be composed of a semiconductor material and the other a metal. When the memristor layer is composed of semiconductor material the contract between a metal electrode and the memristor layer depletes the memristor layer of free charge carriers. Thus the memristor layer has a net charge that depends on the identity of the dopant which is positive in the case of electron donors and negative in the case of electron acceptors.

Switching from one rectifying state to another can be accomplished by applying an electric field of an appropriate magnitude and polarity across the memristor layer . The electric field forces the dopants to drift into or out of the electrode active region interface regions thus changing the rectifying state of the memristor layer . For example as shown in an appropriate electric field can be used to force dopants located near the interfaces of the shunted rectifier to move to one of the interfaces thus changing the shunted rectifier into either the forward rectifier or the reverse rectifier.

The ability of the charged species to diffuse into and out of the primary active material is substantially improved if one of the interfaces connecting the memristor layer to a metal or semiconductor electrode is non covalently bonded. Such an interface may be caused by a void in the material or it may be the result of an interface that contains a material that does not form covalent bonds with the electrode the primary active material or both. This non covalently bonded interface lowers the activation energy of the atomic rearrangements that are needed for drift of the dopants in the primary active material. This interface is essentially an extremely thin insulator and adds very little to the total series resistance of the element.

The primary and secondary active materials of the memristor layer can be oxides sulfides selenides nitrides phosphides arsenides chlorides hydrides and bromides of the transition and rare earth metals with or without the alkaline earth metals being present. In addition there are various alloys of these compounds with each other which can have a wide range of compositions if they are mutually soluble in each other. In addition the memristor layer can be composed of mixed compounds in which there are two or more metal atoms combined with some number of electronegative elements. The dopants can be anion vacancies or different valence elements doped in the memristor layer . One combination of materials is a primary active material that is undoped and stoichiometric and thus a good insulator combined with a secondary source sink of the same or related parent material that either contains a large concentration of anion vacancies or other dopants that can drift into the primary material under the application of an appropriate bias.

The memristor layer can be composed of oxides that contain at least one oxygen atom O and at least one other element. In particular the memristor layer can be composed of silica SiO titania TiO nickel oxide NiO zirconia ZrO and hafnia HfO with or without 3d impurities e.g. Cr Mn or sp impurities e.g. Li Be Ca . These materials are compatible with silicon Si integrated circuit technology because they do not create doping in the Si. Other embodiments for the memristor layer include alloys of these oxides in pairs or with all three of the elements Ti Zr and Hf present. For example the memristor layer can be composed of TiZrHfO where x y z 1. Related compounds include titanates zirconates and hafnates. For example titanates includes ATiO where A represents one of the divalent elements strontium Sr barium Ba calcium Ca magnesium Mg zinc Zn and cadmium Cd . In general the memristor layer can be composed of ABO where A represents a divalent element e.g. Sr Ba and B represents Ti Zr and Hf. The memristor layer can also be composed of alloys of these various compounds such as CaSrBaTiZrHfO where a b c 1 and x y z 1. There are also a wide variety of other oxides of the transition and rare earth metals with different valences that may be used both individually and as more complex compounds. In each case the mobile dopant can be an oxygen vacancy or an aliovalent element doped into the memristor layer . The oxygen vacancies effectively act as dopants with one shallow and one deep energy level. Because even a relatively minor nonstoichiometry of about 0.1 oxygen vacancies in TiOis approximately equivalent to 10dopants cm modulating oxygen vacancy profiles have strong effect on electron transport.

In other embodiments the memristor layer can be a sulfide or a selenide of the transition metals with some ionic bonding character essentially the sulfide and selenide analogues of the oxides described above.

In other embodiments the memristor layer can be a semiconducting nitride or a semiconducting halide. For example semiconducting nitrides include AlN GaN ScN YN LaN rare earth nitrides and alloys of these compounds and more complex mixed metal nitrides and semiconducting halides include CuCl CuBr and AgCl. The memristor layer can be a phosphide or an arsenide of various transition and rare earth metals. In all of these compounds the mobile dopant can be an anion vacancy or an aliovalent element.

A variety of dopants can be used and are selected from a group consisting of hydrogen alkali and alkaline earth cations transition metal cations rare earth cations oxygen anions or vacancies nitrogen anions or vacancies pnictide anions or vacancies or halide anions or vacancies. Other suitable materials include metal hydrides such as MgNiH MgMnH MgCoH MgCoH MgCoH and MgFeH and copper oxides such as CuO and CuO exhibit large changes in refractive indices.

The phase control layer is a resonant plasmonic metamaterial that can be operated to exhibit negative refraction for particular wavelengths of light. The resonant behavior translates into large phase changes of refracted light. The refractive index of each phase modulation pixel in phase control layer can be independently and electronically controlled and the transparency of each intensity control pixel in intensity control layer can also be independently and electronically controlled. In other words the phase modulation pixels and the intensity control pixels are electronically addressable. For a ray of light passing through any pair of aligned phase modulation and intensity control pixels a transmission phase can be applied to the ray by the phase modulation modulation pixel in phase control layer followed by a reduction in the intensity produced by the corresponding intensity control pixel in the intensity control layer . For example suppose directional arrow represents a ray of light originating from a light source not shown located behind phase control layer . As the ray passes through the phase modulation pixel a first voltage applied to the pixel induces a change in the refractive index of the pixel . As a result the ray acquires a transmission phase as it emerges from the pixel and it may also exhibit an intensity decrease due to insertion loss. As the ray subsequently passes through intensity control pixel a second voltage applied to the pixel changes the transparency of the pixel and thus adjusts the intensity of the ray as it emerges from the intensity control layer to render a holographic image by taking into account any optical insertion losses. In other words the phase control layer and the intensity control layer can be operated in conjunction to produce both transmission phases and intensity variations in light transmitted through individual pixels of the phase control layer and the intensity control layer . As a result three dimensional images can be produced by the collective optical effect of controlling the wavefront and the intensity of light emerging from the hologram . Because the effective refractive index and the intensity of each pixel can be separately and electronically controlled three dimensional motion pictures can be produced. A more detailed description of the operation of the hologram is described below.

Embodiments of the present invention are not limited to a one to one correspondence between phase modulation pixels and intensity control pixels. In other embodiments the phase modulation pixels and intensity control pixels can be arranged and configured so that light is transmitted through one or more phase modulation pixels and subsequently is transmitted through one or more intensity control pixels.

The refractive index of each pixel can be varied by applying a different voltage to each pixel. shows a number of highlighted phase modulation pixels having different refractive indices in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Each pixel is electronically addressable as described above with reference to and depending on the magnitude of the voltage applied to each pixel the effective refractive index of each pixel can be separately adjusted. For example shaded pixels each represent pixels having different effective refractive indices which result from applying different voltages to each of the pixels . The change in the effective refractive index can range from a few percent to approximately 10 but coupled with a resonant negative pixel the change in the effective refractive index is larger.

The phase control layer can be composed of a crossbar NIM and each electronically addressable phase modulation pixel can be composed of one or more resonant elements. shows an isometric view and an enlargement of a region of the phase control layer shown in in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The enlarged region reveals that the phase control layer is implemented as a crossbar NIM comprising an intermediate layer sandwiched between a first layer of substantially parallel nanowires and a second layer of approximately parallel nanowires where the nanowires in the first layer are approximately perpendicular to the nanowires in the second layer . The crossbar NIM and resonant elements are configured and operated as described above with reference to the subsections Negative Index Material Crossbars and Resonant Elements.

Embodiments of the present invention are not limited to pixels comprising a square array of nine resonant elements. Because voltages can be applied to individual crossed nanowires the number of square array resonant elements comprising a single pixel can range from as few as 4 to hundreds or even thousands of resonant elements. In addition the individual nanowires enable pixels to have various shapes such as square rectangular circular elliptical triangular or any other suitable shape.

Light emerging from phase modulation pixels of the phase control layer pass through corresponding intensity control pixels of intensity control layer as described above with reference to . Each intensity control pixel can be filled with a liquid crystal. In certain embodiments the intensity control layer can be a liquid crystal layer. Each intensity control pixel of intensity control layer typically consists of a layer of liquid crystal molecules aligned between two transparent electrodes and two polarizing filters with substantially perpendicular axes of transmission. The electrodes are composed of a transparent conductor such as Indium Tin Oxide ITO . Thus with no liquid crystal filling the pixel between the polarizing filters light passing through the first filter is blocked by the second filter. The surfaces of the transparent electrodes contacting the liquid crystal material are treated with a thin polymer molecule that aligns the liquid crystal molecules in a particular direction.

Before applying an electric field to a pixel the orientation of the liquid crystal molecules is determined by the alignment at the polymer deposited on surfaces of the transparent electrode. An intensity control pixel comprising twisted nematic liquid crystals the surface alignment direction of the polymer on the first electrode is substantially perpendicular to the alignment direction of the polymer on the second electrode and the liquid crystal molecules between the electrodes arrange themselves in a helical structure. Because the liquid crystal is birefringent light passing through one polarizing filter is rotated by the liquid crystal helix allowing the light to pass through the second polarized filter.

When a voltage is applied across the electrodes of an intensity control pixel a torque is created that aligns the liquid crystal molecules parallel to the electric field distorting the helical structure. This reduces the rotation of the polarization of the incident light and the pixel appears grey. When the applied voltage is large enough the liquid crystal molecules are almost completely untwisted and aligned with the electric field and the polarization of the incident light is not rotated as it passes through the liquid crystals. This light will then be mainly polarized perpendicular to the second filter and as a result the light is blocked by the second filter and the pixel appears black. By controlling the voltage applied to each intensity control pixel the intensity of light passing through each intensity control pixel can be varied thus constituting different levels of grey.

In other embodiments color filters can be placed over each intensity control pixel so that colored light emerges from each intensity control pixel. For example three adjacent intensity control pixels can be combined to form an RGB color pixel. Red green and blue primary color filters can be placed over each of three adjacent intensity control pixels. A red filter can be placed over a first pixel a blue filter can be placed over a second pixel and a green filter can be placed over a third pixel. Light of varying colors can be generated by varying the intensity of light passing through each of the three pixels of the RGB pixel. In other embodiments different colors can be used for the three intensity control pixels comprising the color pixel. For example cyan magenta and yellow filters can placed over each of three adjacent intensity control pixels. Note that since the intensity control pixels are configured with subwavelength dimensions in other embodiments groups of pixels can be configured such that each of the group of pixels respond to different quasimonochromatic light such as red green and blue light. The group of pixels can have subwavelength dimensions and dynamically generate a color hologram.

Operation of the hologram is not limited to producing a single three dimensional image. In other embodiments the hologram can be used to simultaneously produce one or more images where each image can be viewed over a different range of viewing angles. shows a schematic representation of the hologram displaying three different three dimensional virtual images in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The pixels of the hologram are individually and electronically addressed to produce interfering wavefronts producing three separate and distinct three dimensional virtual images that can each be viewed over different viewing angles. For example as shown in the three dimensional virtual images can each be viewed over different viewing angles and respectively. A viewer can view the three dimensional virtual image over the range of viewing angles . As the viewer changes position to view the three dimensional virtual image over the range of viewing angles the three dimensional virtual image appears to morph into the three dimensional virtual image .

Although the present invention has been described in terms of particular embodiments it is not intended that the invention be limited to these embodiments. Modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the light source being positioned on the side of the hologram opposite the image. In other embodiments the hologram can be operated in a reflective mode where the light source can be positioned and configured to emit quasimonochromatic light reflected off of pixels of the layers of the hologram creating an image on the opposite side of the light source . In other embodiments more than one phase control layer can be included to control the phase and more than one intensity control layer can be included to control the intensity. In addition when the resonant elements of the phase control layer comprise memristors as described above with reference to the relative phase differences of the last image displayed are stored in the resistance states of the memristor layers. Thus the last image viewed can be displayed by simply turning on the light source and the intensity control layer without having to electronically configure the phase modulation pixels of the phase control layer . Embodiments of the present invention are not limited to light first passing through the phase control layer followed by light passing through the intensity control layer . In other embodiments a hologram can be configured and operated in accordance with embodiments of the present invention where light first passes through the intensity control layer and then passes through the phase control layer .

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. The foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the present invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive of or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Obviously many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments are shown and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents 

