---

title: Systems and methods for self-service vehicle risk adjustment
abstract: A user may be identified and authenticated to an institution system and may adjust the annual miles driven estimate for their vehicle. The annual miles driven estimate is used in the determination of the premium for the vehicle insurance for the vehicle. The premium for the vehicle insurance may be revised based on the adjustment by the user to the annual miles driven estimate. In an implementation, the user may reduce the annual miles driven estimate to zero to indicate that they are not driving the vehicle. The user may keep some elements of the vehicle insurance coverage and the vehicle insurance policy may remain active although the annual miles driven estimate is zero.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08027853&OS=08027853&RS=08027853
owner: United States Automobile Associates (USAA)
number: 08027853
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081023
---
This application is related by subject matter to that disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications the entirety of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 256 596 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 256 604 each filed on even date and each entitled Systems And Methods For Self Service Vehicle Risk Adjustment. 

Insurance is a form of risk management primarily used to hedge against the risk of a contingent loss and may be defined as the equitable transfer of the risk of a loss from one entity to another in exchange for a premium. An insurer is a company that sells insurance. An insurance rate is a factor used to determine the amount called the premium to be charged for a certain amount of insurance coverage.

Vehicle insurance is insurance purchased for cars trucks and other vehicles. It may provide protection against losses incurred as a result of traffic accidents fire theft or attempted theft vandalism weather etc. and against liability that could be incurred in an accident. Vehicle insurance may cover the insured party the insured vehicle and third party vehicles and people.

Estimated miles driven on the vehicle such as annual miles driven is a factor that is used to determine the premium for vehicle insurance. It is difficult to adjust the premium when the annual miles driven changes abruptly or significantly such as when a user alters their driving habits because of the price of gasoline the fuel efficiency of their vehicle a change in employment etc.

A user may be identified and authenticated to an institution system and may adjust the annual miles driven estimate for their vehicle. The annual miles driven estimate is used in the determination of a premium for vehicle insurance for the vehicle. The premium for the vehicle insurance may be revised based on the adjustment by the user to the annual miles driven estimate.

In an implementation the user may reduce the annual miles driven estimate to zero to indicate that they are not driving the vehicle. Although the user may reduce the annual miles driven estimate to zero the user may keep some elements of the vehicle insurance coverage. The vehicle insurance policy may remain active although the annual miles driven estimate is zero.

In an implementation the user may adjust the annual miles driven estimate to one of a plurality of tiers where each tier is associated with a different range or maximum number of miles. The premium for the vehicle insurance may be revised based on a tier selected by the user.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A user and an associated user computing device are shown. The user may be an individual who owns an insurance product also may be referred to herein as a policy or other account that may be provided by or held by the institution associated with the institution system . The user may insure a vehicle with the institution system e.g. via a vehicle insurance policy. For purposes of clarity and simplicity an applicant for an insurance policy or a current holder of an insurance policy may be referred to herein as a user. Thus any reference to a user herein also includes any type of applicant institution member or prospective member or the like.

A vehicle insurance policy for the vehicle may provide for any type of well known coverage such as liability collision comprehensive etc. For example the user may choose coverage on items such as bodily injury property damage uninsured underinsured motorists bodily injury uninsured underinsured motorists property damage etc.

The institution system may include an insurance processor that may process and maintain a vehicle insurance policy for the vehicle of the user . The insurance processor may retrieve information from storage such as information storage and user storage and use the information in processing and maintaining a vehicle insurance policy. The insurance processor may receive and process a request from the user for information pertaining to the vehicle insurance policy of the user . The insurance processor may send a request to the user requesting instructions regarding insuring the vehicle . The insurance processor may receive instructions from the user and act on the instructions accordingly.

In an implementation the insurance processor may generate a representation such as a graphical representation or information for a representation of coverage information of the vehicle insurance policy that is provided to the user e.g. via the user computing device . A representation such as a graphical representation of a user s insurance policy coverage may be provided to a user. In an implementation among other coverage elements the provided representation may illustrate an annual miles driven estimate for example.

The representation of coverage information may be provided via a website to the user computing device associated with a user . In an implementation instead of hosting the website the institution system may comprise a conventional application server hosting a proprietary online service accessible only by a private network. In any event the institution system may have appropriate security mechanisms in place to prevent unauthorized third parties from intercepting the user s information.

A premium generator may generate a premium quote for a vehicle insurance policy. An estimate of the miles driven on the vehicle such as annual miles driven estimate is a factor that is used to determine the premium for vehicle insurance. The premium generator may receive an annual miles driven estimate from the user e.g. directly from storage or via the insurance processor and determine a premium for the vehicle insurance policy based on the annual miles driven estimate as well as other factors. The premium quote pertaining to the determined premium may be provided to the user . Although example described herein may refer to an annual miles driven estimate it is contemplated that the time period for the miles driven estimate is not limited to a year and any time period for the miles driven estimate may be used.

The premium generator may use any techniques s for generating a premium quote for insuring the vehicle . The premium generator may receive and use information from the insurance processor as well as from information storage and user storage for example. Additionally the premium generator may request and receive information pertaining to the vehicle from the user . This information may be used in generation of the premium quote . After retrieving or otherwise receiving the data from the various sources the premium generator may use tools applications and aggregators for example to generate the premium quote for insurance of the vehicle . The premium quote may be provided to the user who may accept the premium quote.

Information storage may contain information pertaining to users who have insurance policies or other types of products or accounts hosted by the institution system data related to the policies products and accounts and population and demographic data pertaining to the users for example. Information storage may include data that may be used in the generation of a representation of coverage information. User storage may contain information directed to users such as name address marital status account information etc. for example.

The insurance processor and the premium generator have access to data files and documents pertaining to the user and the vehicle as well as any other data files and documents that are currently stored by the institution system as well as external data files and documents and that may be useful in generating premium quotes for insuring the vehicle and writing insurance policies for the vehicle . Data pertaining to the user the vehicle the user s insurance policies and or the user accounts may be retrieved from information storage and or user storage in an implementation. The retrieved data may be stored centrally perhaps in storage . Other information may be provided to the institution system from the user .

Information storage and or user storage may contain data metadata email files and or documents that the institution system maintains pertaining to the user such as personal data such as name physical address email address etc. insurance policy data such as premiums and coverage amounts as well as other account information. The institution system may access this information when generating premium quotes or issuing insurance policies for example.

The user may provide data to the institution system via the user computing device . The user computing device may be a handheld computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a mobile phone for example or any type of personal computer PC . The user computing device and the institution system may be connected over a network . It is contemplated that the network may be any type of private or public communication network such as for example an intranet Internet local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless fidelity WiFi network cellular connection plain old telephone service POTS a public switched telephone network PSTN a cellular network a voice over Internet protocol VoIP network and the like. An example user computing device is described with respect to . The user may also communicate with the institution system by phone email instant messaging facsimile mail and the like.

A service representative associated with the institution system may confer with the user about coverage information. Such a conference may be via a chat session or a telephone for example.

In an implementation a user interface module may receive content from the insurance processor and or the premium generator and format one or more pages of content as a unified graphical presentation that may be provided to the user computing device . The page s of content may be directed to a graphical representation of coverage information and may be provided to the user computing device via the website . It will be appreciated that in an embodiment the service representative may access the user interface module or the underlying representation of coverage information to assist the user .

In an implementation a graphical representation may be provided that displays a user s insurance coverage. Via the graphical representation the user may request information about various aspects of the coverage and or may request to chat or speak with a service representative . The user may also provide an annual miles driven estimate via the graphical representation and may be provided with a revised premium amount. The user may select this coverage to be implemented and the user s vehicle insurance policy may be appropriately revised.

When the user accesses the website using a web browser on the user computing device for example the user may be presented with information pertaining to a vehicle insurance policy that they are considering purchasing or a vehicle insurance policy that they already have purchased via the page s of content . The information may be in a graphical representation form for example. The user may enter information into the graphical representation via a web browser on the user computing device . In this manner for example the user may provide an annual miles driven estimate to the institution system . As described further herein in an implementation the user may modify their vehicle insurance policy by providing an adjustment to the annual miles driven estimate that is used in the determination of the premium for their vehicle insurance policy.

The user may be identified and authenticated to an institution system e.g. via website phone mail etc. and may adjust the annual miles driven estimate for the vehicle . The annual miles driven estimate is a vehicle risk factor used by the institution system in the determination of the premium for the vehicle insurance for the vehicle. Such self service vehicle risk adjustment allows the user to adjust the annual miles driven estimate at any time while a vehicle insurance policy is in effect. The premium for the vehicle insurance may be revised based on the adjustment by the user to the annual miles driven estimate. The user may pay the revised premium on a going forward basis. In this manner the premium is dynamic and is not limited to annual or semi annual pricing for example.

Thus the premium may be changed when the annual miles driven estimate is changed. In an implementation the number of times a user may change the annual miles driven estimate may be limited during a particular time period e.g. twice each six month period once per month etc. .

In an implementation a user may change the annual miles driven estimate to zero thereby agreeing to not drive their vehicle also referred to herein as mothball ing the vehicle . In this manner the user and the vehicle may keep a vehicle insurance policy on the vehicle but with a premium priced to reflect the mothballing of the vehicle. It is contemplated that a miles driven estimate other than zero may be used to indicate a mothballing of a vehicle. For example in an implementation a miles driven estimate below a predetermined number such as 50 miles 100 miles or 200 miles etc. may be used to indicate a mothballing of a vehicle.

The content provided to the user may be personalized to the user using information retrieved from the user storage for example. Personalization may include presentation of the page s of content and or functionality of the page s of content . For example a graphical representation displayed on the page s of content may be pre filled with some information pertaining to the user such as name address policy number etc. In an implementation personalization may be directed to a vehicle insurance policy and may provide specific information on the user s vehicle or aspects of the user s coverage. Personalization is not limited to vehicle insurance policies and may be directed to any type of data information product service advertisement etc.

A user access system may be communicatively coupled to the insurance processor and or the premium generator and may be configured to send machine readable instructions to the insurance processor and or the premium generator . As mentioned above the institution system may provide a unified graphical presentation output. The unified graphical presentation may be transmitted to the user access system. In an implementation the unified graphical presentation may be combined with other materials and transmitted to the user . In an implementation the unified graphical presentation is received by the user access system and transmitted directly to the user without the inclusion of any other materials.

The user access system may be implemented as a web server in an implementation. The user access system through the use of any suitable interactive web technology provides an interactive experience to the user through which access to vehicle insurance data and status and related data can be accomplished. Any technology that provides interactivity through a web browser is considered to be within the scope of the present discussion and may include without limitation Hyper Text Mark Up Language HTML Dynamic HTML DHTML JavaScript and Ajax.

The institution system may include any combination of systems and subsystems such as electronic devices including but not limited to computers servers databases or the like. The electronic devices may include any combination of hardware components such as processors databases storage drives registers cache random access memory RAM chips data buses or the like and or software components such as operating systems database management applications or the like.

The institution system may comprise one or more computing devices . The user computing device may allow the user to interact with the computing device s . The computing device s may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules . The computing device s including its processor s storage and software modules may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein. Information associated with the user and or insurance policies may be stored in storage or other storage for example.

Example software modules may include modules for sending and receiving information between the institution system and the user requesting and retrieving information from storage information storage and user storage providing coverage information to the user generating a premium quote for the vehicle based on the annual miles driven estimate and sending the premium quote to the user issuing an insurance policy or other coverage for the vehicle generating web page content for display and receiving instructions from the user for example. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

At some point the user may perform a self service vehicle risk adjustment to the vehicle insurance policy. At the user may be identified and authenticated by the institution using any known technique s . The user may identified and authenticated via a website of an institution system affiliated with the institution or by any other electronic or physical techniques such as by telephone email mail text messaging instant messaging communicating with a service representative etc.

In an implementation information pertaining to a vehicle insurance policy of the user may be retrieved and presented to the user. The information may include an annual miles driven estimate. At the user may reduce the annual miles driven estimate to zero or some other indication established by the institution to indicate that the user is agreeing to discontinue driving the vehicle i.e. no longer drive the vehicle . In this manner the user may be considered to be mothballing the vehicle or otherwise agreeing not to drive the vehicle. The user may provide an annual miles driven estimate to the institution e.g. to the institution system by any input technique s such as via a selection of one or more drop down menus one or more buttons icons or other selectable indicators by direct entry and or by response to a prompt for example. The user may provide an annual miles driven estimate via a website text message instant message phone facsimile email mail and the like.

Although the user may reduce the annual miles driven estimate to zero or provide some other indication of mothballing in an implementation a low mileage allowance may be provided to the user. The low mileage allowance may allow the vehicle to be driven a predetermined number of miles greater than zero miles. In this manner the user may be permitted to accrue a predetermined amount of mileage to attend to such items as routine service and maintenance emergency usage etc.

In an implementation the user may keep some elements of the vehicle insurance coverage such as liability collision comprehensive bodily injury property damage rental reimbursement towing and labor uninsured underinsured motorists bodily injury or uninsured underinsured motorists property damage for example. The vehicle insurance policy may remain active although the annual miles driven estimate has been reduced to zero or the user has provided some other indication or level that indicates the user is mothballing the vehicle i.e. agreeing to no longer drive the vehicle .

At the institution may receive the reduced annual miles driven estimate and may determine a revised premium based on the reduced annual miles driven estimate. The premium for the vehicle insurance policy and its driving related coverage s may be substantially reduced. The vehicle insurance policy may have a term and an expiration date and the revised premium may be for the remainder of the term of the vehicle insurance policy prior to the expiration date.

At a quote for the revised premium may be provided to the user. The user may pay the revised premium e.g. in accordance with a payment plan such as weekly bi weekly monthly bi monthly etc. Payments may be made for the remainder of the term of the vehicle insurance policy.

At some point the user may decide to drive the vehicle again and may adjust the annual miles driven estimate accordingly. The premium may be revised based on the adjusted annual miles driven estimate.

At some point the user may want to adjust the annual miles driven estimate which in turn may lead to an adjusted premium for the vehicle insurance policy. At the user may contact the institution e.g. by logging in to a website of the institution system. The institution system may identify and authenticate the user. In an implementation a user may log in to a website associated with the institution system may be identified and authenticated using any known techniques and may request vehicle insurance policy information. Instead of communicating with the institution via a website the user may communicate with the institution by any electronic or physical techniques such as by telephone email mail text messaging instant messaging communicating with a service representative etc.

At the institution system may present the user with information pertaining to the vehicle insurance policy. Information pertaining to the user and the user s policy and coverage information may be retrieved from storage. The information may include the current annual miles driven estimate that the current premium is based on. The user may be provided with a graphical representation of their insurance coverage. The graphical representation may be provided to the user via a computing device.

The user may view the graphical representation. The user may request or select information related to an aspect of the graphical representation such as information directed to one of the coverage areas or information directed to a premium. The user may make a selection by selecting a link displayed on the graphical representation highlighting an area of the graphical representation and or clicking on an area of the graphical representation for example. The information that the user may select may then be provided to the user via a website email and or a representative of the institution for example.

At the user may provide an adjustment to the annual miles driven estimate. The adjustment may comprise a reduction or an increase in the annual miles driven estimate. In an implementation the user may change the destination of the miles driven such as to work or recreational. The destination of the miles driven may affect the premium of the vehicle insurance policy. The adjustment to the annual miles driven estimate and the destination of the miles driven may be provided by the user to the institution system via the website email telephone facsimile mail text messaging instant messaging communicating with a service representative etc.

The institution system may receive the adjustment at and may determine a revised premium based on the adjustment to the annual miles driven estimate. Additionally or alternatively the revised premium may be based on the changed destination. At a quote for the revised premium may be provided to the user and the user may be charged the new premium.

Premium information may also be provided to the user as the user adjusts the annual miles driven estimate. In an implementation as the user changes the annual miles driven estimate on a website for example the associated premium amount may change and the user may see how their premium will change as they consider different annual miles driven estimates. In an implementation if the user likes the adjustment to the annual miles driven estimate and its associated premium the user can click a commit button or other selector and put the policy changes into effect.

At the institution system may present various mileage tiers to the user. Each mileage tier may correspond to a maximum number of miles that a user may drive their vehicle in a particular time period such as annually semi annually etc. For example a mothball tier may correspond to zero miles driven per year. One or more low mileage tiers may be provided such as a maintenance tier that corresponds to a maximum of 200 miles driven per year and an incidental use tier that corresponds to a maximum of 500 miles driven per year for example. The examples described herein are not intended to be limiting and it is contemplated that any number of mileage tiers may be provided with any mileage amounts ranges and or maximums.

At the user may select the mileage tier that corresponds to their annual miles driven estimate and the selection may be received by the institution system. The user may select the tier via a website associated with the institution system or via a graphical representation provided to the user for example. In an implementation the mileage tiers may be provided in a drop down menu that may be selected by a user. However any technique s for providing a mileage tier and or selecting a mileage tier may be used.

At the institution system may determine a premium based on the mileage tier selected by the user that corresponds to the user s annual miles driven estimate. At a quote for the premium may be provided to the user and the user may be charged the premium.

At some point the user may wish to adjust the mileage tier associated with their vehicle and processing may continue at . The adjusted mileage tier selected by the user may be used by the institution system to determine a revised premium that may be charged to the user for the vehicle insurance policy.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices interconnected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include PCs network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

