---

title: Method and system for print queue management
abstract: A method and system suitable for use with a plurality of multifunction devices (MFDs) for managing one or more print queues associated with the plurality of MFDs, the system including a user interface application for permitting users to electronically communicate with a queue managing service (QMS); wherein the QMS automatically detects, identifies, and analyzes the one or more print queues associated with the plurality of MFDs in order to provide a status of the plurality of MFDs and continuously notify the users of the updates relating to the one or more print queues.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08477343&OS=08477343&RS=08477343
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 08477343
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081217
---
The present disclosure relates to printers and more particularly to a method and system for managing a plurality of print queues of a plurality of multifunction devices MFDs .

The concept of network printing in which any of a plurality of computers submit digital data to one of any number of printers over a network is well known. The administration of printing devices in a network environment is typically a tedious and time consuming task for network administrators. In particular for large and complex network environments having several local servers there may be a large number of printers distributed throughout the network. Network administrators must not only install new printing devices on the network but they must also create and manage the print queues associated with the printing devices and facilitate network users connecting to and utilizing the printing devices.

A conventional printing system uses a client server architecture that usually includes three primary components. These components include i a client ii a server and iii an output device. The client conveys print and management requests to the server and receives responses from the server that arise in response to the submitted requests. The server receives these requests from the client performs the required actions for each request and returns the responses to the client. One such request from a client is a print request i.e. a request to print one or more copies of one or more documents with the printed pages output using one or more features. A print request may represent a collection of one or more documents to be printed as well as instructions for printing. The server organizes the documents indicated in the print request submitted by the client into a print job. The server then sends the print job and any associated job control commands to the output device.

The output device is a physical device or hardware that is capable of rendering images of documents and producing hard copy output of the print jobs received from the server. The output device can then return responses to the server regarding its current state or the status of the received print jobs. The output device is commonly a printer. However the output device may also be any type of multifunction device MFD .

In general a MFD operates as a plurality of different imaging devices including but not limited to a printer copier fax machine and or scanner. In recent years the basic office copier has evolved into what can be referred to as a MFD. With digital technology a machine with the basic outward appearance of a traditional copier can perform at least the additional functions of printing documents submitted in digital form over a network sending and receiving messages via facsimile recording hard copy original images in digital form and sending the resulting data over a network such as in electronic mail and or recording hard copy original images in digital form on a compact disc or equivalent medium.

In the area of digital printing and copying there has been a growth in demand for MFDs. Such MFD devices may assume the form of an arrangement in which a single print engine e.g. xerographic or thermal ink jet print engine is coupled with a plurality of different image input devices or services with such devices being adapted to produce image related information for use by the printer or transmitted over a network. The image related information in one example could have its origin in video facsimile signals microfilm data processing information light scanning platens for full size documents aperture cards and microfiche. MFDs provide a broader range of functionality than traditional single function devices such as dedicated printers copiers and scanners. As a result since MFDs are universally used it would be useful to track and manage print queues associated with MFDs.

For example in an office environment a typical user has a desktop computer that has some set of printers installed on it. These printers may or may not be the ones that the user most often prints to. Assistance from other users administrators may yield additional printers being added onto their system which the user does not use but is hesitant to delete. The list of printers that can eventually appear on a user s system can be lengthy and confusing. Knowing which ones are actually necessary is not always clear. Also some printers may be added to the network while others are removed. Unless the user specifically keeps track of these new resources or verifies the existence of the old ones he she may not become aware of their status. In fact the user can actually waste a significant amount of time trying to print to a printer that does not exist or to a print queue that is overloaded.

Once a print queue has been created and configured for a particular printing device network users may begin utilizing the printing device by locating and connecting to the desired print queue and installing any necessary print drivers. However searching for the desired print queue often requires the network user to search lists of print queues on multiple network servers. Thus in networking environments employing a large number of servers finding a desired print queue can be confusing and very time consuming.

As a result in conventional document printing systems a user must specify the physical printer to be used to print a specific job or print a document. Therefore the user must know the attributes of every available physical printer on the network in order to decide which printer would best print the desired document s . Additionally if new printers are added to the network each user must ascertain the capabilities of each new printer and the print address for each newly added printer assuming the user even knows that new printers have been added. Thus newly added printers can be available for quite some time without being used at their full capacity and old printers may have been removed or incorporated with additional functions not known to the users.

Consequently current systems lack the capability to effectively inform a plurality of users using a plurality of MFDs the status of the print queues of the plurality of MFDs. The present disclosure is intended to overcome the drawbacks of other methods by providing for a system and method for managing one or more print queues associated with the plurality of MFDs.

The present disclosure provides a suitable printing system for use with a plurality of multifunction devices MFDs for managing one or more print queues associated with the plurality of MFDs the system including a user interface application for enabling users to electronically communicate with a queue managing service QMS wherein the QMS automatically detects identifies and analyzes the one or more print queues associated with the plurality of MFDs in order to provide a status of the plurality of MFDs and continuously notify the users of the updates relating to the one or more print queues.

The present disclosure also provides a method for managing one or more print queues associated with a plurality of MFDs suitable for use in a printing system the method including the steps of enabling users to electronically communicate with a queue managing service QMS via a user interface application automatically detecting the one or more print queues associated with the plurality of MFDs automatically identifying the one or more print queues associated with the plurality of MFDs and automatically analyzing the one or more print queues associated with the plurality of MFDs in order to provide a status of the plurality of MFDs and continuously notify the users of the updates relating to the one or more print queues.

The present disclosure also provides a computer readable medium which stores programmable instructions configured for being executed by at least one processor for performing the methods described herein according to the present disclosure. The computer readable medium can include flash memory CD ROM a hard drive etc.

The present disclosure proposes a service to aid one or more users to efficiently manage a plurality of printers or MFDs on a printing system. The present disclosure proposes a service which runs for example in the background of a desktop workstation to perform various tasks. These tasks may include but are not limited to the following i Queue Discovery which is a service that periodically discovers new print queues that are available on the network and can notify the user that they are available for installation. ii Queue Usage Tracking which is a service that maintains metrics on the installed queues and notifies the users of any print queue maintenance operations that should be performed. Such operations include but are not limited to changing the default system queue and or cleaning up queues that are no longer available or which are rarely used.

Furthermore a software library may be provided which utilizes an application programming interface API with the Print Queue Manager service and allows a user interface UI application to be created for interfacing to the Queue Manager Service. Through an application that utilizes this API users are able to add and delete queues and or set and view queue properties. The UI application may also allow users to register for such events such as but not limited to new queue discovered installed queue no longer available and or default queue recommendations.

The term print is overloaded to mean sending the document to the printer through any one of a multitude of ways. Moreover the term printer can refer to any device that accepts text and graphic output from any type of computing device and transfers the information to any printable medium. A printer can refer to any type of xerographic solid ink liquid ink cut sheet or web based device used to print onto a wide array of printable media. The term printer as used herein encompasses any apparatus such as a digital copier bookmaking machine facsimile machine multi function machine etc. which performs a print outputting function for any purpose.

MFDs disclosed herein include both those that are connected and those that are unconnected. An unconnected MFD does not have access to a network e.g. the Internet . A connected MFD is normally connected via an Ethernet card or the like to a network. In the present embodiments the MFD may be an unconnected MFD that is in operative communication with a wireless device the wireless device being able to access a network. A connection between the multifunctional device and the wireless device is made through a two way communication channel located on the multifunctional device.

The term MFD can refer to any machine that connects to either a computing device and or network and performs one or more of the following functions print scan copy and or fax. Digital copiers fax machines printers and scanner combinations are all examples of MFDs. The term MFD can further refer to any hardware that combines several functions in one unit. For instance an MFD can be a standalone printer or any type of standalone machine device apparatus component. For example an MFD can be one or more personal computers PCs a standalone printer a standalone scanner a mobile phone an MP3 player audio electronics video electronics GPS systems televisions recording and or reproducing media such as CDs DVDs camcorders cameras etc. or any other type of consumer or non consumer analog and or digital electronics. Such consumer and or non consumer electronics can apply in any type of entertainment communications home and or office capacity. Thus the term MFDs can refer to any type of electronics suitable for use with a circuit board and intended to be used by a plurality of individuals for a variety of purposes.

The term storage can refer to data storage. Data storage can refer to any article or material e.g. a hard disk from which information is capable of being reproduced with or without the aid of any other article or device. Data storage can refer to the holding of data in an electromagnetic form for access by a computer processor. Primary storage is data in random access memory RAM and other built in devices. Secondary storage is data on hard disk tapes and other external devices. Data storage can also refer to the permanent holding place for digital data until purposely erased. Storage implies a repository that retains its content without power. Storage mostly means magnetic disks magnetic tapes and optical discs CD DVD etc. . Storage may also refer to non volatile memory chips such as flash Read Only memory ROM and or Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM .

The term print queue can refer to a file or set of files which a print daemon uses so that applications that wish to use the printer do not have to wait until the print job they have sent is finished before they can continue. It also allows multiple users to share a printer and or MFD. The term print queue can also refer to a software queue that sorts and orders incoming print jobs and or storage space that holds output designated for the printer until the printer can receive it. Print queues can be paused or taken offline by one or more users of the printers and or MFDs. The term print queue can also refer to a list of files that have been sent to a particular printer or MFD. The list may include the file currently printing and those files waiting to be printed. The term print queue can also refer to a prioritized list maintained by an operating system of the output from a computer system waiting on a spool file to be printed.

The term user interface application may refer to a method for providing simple yet extensible frameworks for developing user interface processes. The user interface application may be designed to enable the control flow and state management out of the user interface layer and into a user interface process layer. In other words a user can access and interact with a display screen having a plurality of applications the plurality of applications being translated from software code to visual interaction elements.

The term queue managing service may refer to any method of managing data received in a queue such as but not limited to a print queue. The term queue managing service may also refer to the process by which the switch or the network or any decision making entity lines up data and or the act manner or practice of managing queues and or handling supervision or control of queues by any service provider.

Embodiments will be described below while referencing the accompanying figures. The accompanying figures are merely examples and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

With reference to there is presented a schematic diagram of a print queue manager service in accordance with the present disclosure. The print queue management system includes a print client workstation having a print queue manager UI a default print queue manager UI a print queue manager API a print queue manager service and a print spooler . The print client workstation is connected via a network bus to a first print server a first printer see PRINTER a second printer see PRINTER a second print server a third printer see PRINTER and a fourth printer see PRINTER . The first printer and the second printer have a shared queue see QUEUES for PRINTER and PRINTER configured on PrintServerA and printers and have a shared queue see QUEUES for PRINTER and PRINTER on PrintServerB . Likewise the print client workstation has four queues configured on it which point to the shared queues on PrintServerA and PrintServerB respectively.

The print queue manager API is in communication with the print queue manager service . The print queue manager service is in communication with the print spooler . The print queue manager service may include the tasks of queue discovery and queue usage tracker as described above. The print spooler is a software service that gets a print job to the print server and or software that intercepts a printjob on its way to the printer and sends it to a disk or memory i.e. any type of storage device where it can be held until the printer or MFD is ready to print. The one or more print queues may be stored on any type of memory device or storage device contemplated by one skilled in the art.

The print queue manager service runs for example in the background on a client workstation. The print queue manager service silently goes out onto the network and locates shared print queues that have not been installed on the workstation. If the print queue manager service locates one or more uninstalled print queues on the network it keeps track of those queues and notifies the user at some point in time through either the print queue manager UI or the default print queue manager UI . The scope of the print queue discovery may include all workstations on a subnet or be limited to print servers of queues that the client machine already has installed.

The print queue manager service can also establish when installed print queues are no longer available for printing. The print queue manager service would be able to track the print queues that have previously been available and then determine if they are no longer available.

With reference to there is presented a schematic diagram of a user interface application displaying the print queue manager service in accordance with the present disclosure. The user interface application includes a current queues interface and a new queues interface . The current queues interface includes a default column a printer queue column a usage column and an availability column . The new queues interface includes a printer queue column and add buttons .

The print queue manager UI and or the default print queue manager UI provide users with a view of the information that the print queue manager service collects and or maintains. The print queue manager service displays currently installed printer queues and denotes which ones are still available on the network. Those which are unavailable are highlighted as prime candidates for deletion. The rarely used queues may also be good candidates for deletion to really reduce the number of wasted queues on a system.

The print queue manager UI and or the default print queue manager UI further illustrate the new queues that have been discovered by the print queue manager service . These queues can be added to the printing system by simply selecting an add button . Additionally the print queue manager UI and or the default print queue manager UI could be launched directly by the user or automatically appear when the users log into their workstations. The print queue manager UI and or the default print queue manager UI could also be configured to launch when the users log in and there are new queues available for incorporation within the printing system.

With reference to there is presented a display screen illustrating the updated status of a multifunction device MFD utilizing the print queue manager service in accordance with the present disclosure. The display screen includes a first display section a second display section and a default checkbox .

Part of the print queue management system see is the capability to receive and display print queue notifications. illustrates an example of this capability involving the print job notification. The first display section informs the user that the print job has been completed. The second display section which is a balloon message shown in is an extension of what might typically be shown on a given computer platform when a print job is sent to a print queue. In the balloon notification i.e. the second display section that a print job has completed is presented in the display screen and the display screen allows the user to set this queue as the default queue via the default checkbox .

Thus the exemplary attribute added to the display screen by the print queue management system is the default checkbox . The display screen indicates that the queue used for printing is more frequently used than the current system default print queue and allows the user to set it as the default via the default checkbox . These print job notifications in most workstation platforms can be implemented through hooking into the systems inherent print spooler system. However one skilled in the art may contemplate any method of incorporating such print job notifications.

With reference to there is presented a flow chart illustrating a method for managing one or more print queues associated with a plurality of MFDs suitable for use in a printing system in accordance with the present disclosure. The flowchart includes the following steps. In step the users are permitted to electronically communicate with a queue managing service QMS via a user interface application. In step the system automatically detects the one or more print queues associated with the plurality of MFDs. In step the system automatically identifies the one or more print queues associated with the plurality of MFDs. In step the system automatically analyzes the one or more print queues associated with the plurality of MFDs. The process then ends.

The present disclosure proposes an alternative method that takes advantage of print queue management services in order to make the process of printing simple and as streamlined as possible to provide for an efficient user experience. The concept of using a print queue management system is a general concept in that it can be used for applications other than printers by any service provider. For example service providers could use any type of printer and or MFD and or electronic device to achieve the desired results of the present disclosure. Also the printing system of the present disclosure makes it easier for information technology IT groups and or service providers to manage the printing environment for their clients. System administrators and or service providers are freed up from the task of having to assist users with configuring their desktops with the appropriate print queues. The present disclosure also reduces the variety of ways in which print queues can be installed by service providers thus causing less confusion for one or more users. As a result the detection identification installation analysis and or maintenance tasks of the present disclosure may be performed by any type of service provider.

A service provider can be any entity that develops offers controls manages owns alters and or sells software and or hardware products. A service provider can be any entity that performs one or more tasks on one or more pre existing MFDs which may or may not be controlled or owned by the service provider. For example the entity can offer a service with an existing software package and or with any type of existing Internet based service through the Internet. In other words a service provider need not own or provide the MFDs. The MFDs may be owned or provided by any third party not related or associated with the service provider.

In the present disclosure it is contemplated that the entity such as a service provider can offer any type of service and or product to optimize pre existing pre owned MFDs by referring potential customers to an Internet website or a store that may or may not be associated with printing related services and or products. The term entity can refer to anything that may exist as a discrete and or distinct unit that owns operates manages and or controls one or more of a plurality of machines such as MFDs . For example the term entity may include the term company. 

The present disclosure addresses a variety of printing issues associated with conventional printing systems by providing for the automatic creation identification updating installation analysis and or maintenance of print queues upon detecting printing devices such as but not limited to MFDs on a network. Specifically the present disclosure detects new printing devices connected on a network updates old printing devices on a network and provides updates analysis and maintenance information regarding any and or all MFDs on a network. Upon detection of a printing device information is obtained from the the detected printing device and a print queue is created. Accordingly the present disclosure helps reduce the burden of manually creating and configuring print queues for connected printing devices by providing an efficient automated process.

The present disclosure also includes as an additional embodiment a computer readable medium which stores programmable instructions configured for being executed by at least one processor for performing the methods described herein according to the present disclosure. The computer readable medium can include flash memory CD ROM a hard drive etc.

It will be appreciated that variations of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Also that various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

