---

title: Contextually aware web application platform
abstract: In an example embodiment, the appearance and/or operation of a web application may be modified based, at least in part, on one or more contextual elements of a web page.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542384&OS=09542384&RS=09542384
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09542384
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080828
---
This patent application is being concurrently filed with U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 200 630 titled Embeddable Web Application Agent filed on Aug. 28 2008 by Engel and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 200 545 titled Multiple Views for Web Applications Across Multiple Endpoints filed on Aug. 28 2008 by Gibb et al. both of which are assigned to the assignee of currently claimed subject matter and incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Subject matter disclosed herein may relate to a web application execution platform to alter the appearance and or operation of an application based at least in part on a context of a web page.

With networks such as the Internet gaining tremendous popularity and with the vast multitude of pages and or other documents and or other media content becoming available to users via the World Wide Web web it has become desirable for some web page publishers and or other entities related to the web to implement application execution environments to allow users to run applications via the entity s web site and to entice users to visit the sites. Such application execution environments may comprise stand alone environments with the web page publisher performing page assembly as well as performing back end integration with data storage social information etc.

Reference is made in the following detailed description to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof wherein like numerals may designate like parts throughout to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. It will be appreciated that for simplicity and or clarity of illustration elements illustrated in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of claimed subject matter. It should also be noted that directions and references for example up down top bottom and so on may be used to facilitate the discussion of the drawings and are not intended to restrict the application of claimed subject matter. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of claimed subject matter defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuits have not been described in detail.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of claimed subject matter. Thus the appearance of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

The term and or as referred to herein may mean and it may mean or it may mean exclusive or it may mean one it may mean some but not all it may mean neither and or it may mean both although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

As discussed above it may be desirable for web page publishers and or other entities related to the web to implement application execution environments to allow users to run applications via the entity s web site and to entice users to visit particular web sites. Web application developers may produce applications to operate within the web application execution environments. Applications may be developed for a particular web page or a particular type of web page. If the application developer desires to have the web application accessible via other web pages and or web sites and or if the developer desires to customize an application for different web pages different versions of the application may be generated and provided to the application execution environments. Thus web application developers may incur additional effort and or expense in porting applications across multiple web sites and or pages.

In an example embodiment a web application platform may receive one or more code segments associated with a web application from a web application developer for example and may generate multiple views of the application to be displayed across multiple web sites and or web pages. The web developer for an example embodiment may avoid generating customized code for the various web sites and or pages thus reducing the effort and or expense of developing the application. Further the application platform may provide users with different views of the application to suit various circumstances for another example.

For one or more embodiments described herein web applications may be accessed from and or displayed in a designated application area within a web page. Such an application area may be referred to as a dropzone although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Dropzones are discussed more fully below.

Also for one or more embodiments the appearance and or operation of a web application may be modified based at least in part on one or more contextual elements of a web page. For example if the web application is a stock quote application the application may display a stock quote for the XYZ corporation if the application is being accessed from the XYZ web site or a web site associated with the XYZ corporation and the same web application without specific customization from the web application developer may display a stock quote from the ZYX corporation if the web application is accessed from a web site associated with the ZYX corporation. In this manner a web application developer may generate a single web application that may be automatically customized in some manner according to the context of the web page from which the application is launched and or displayed.

Continuing with the stock quote web application example consider a web site that may include separate web pages for each of a number of publicly traded companies for which a user may wish to obtain a stock quote. In an embodiment a web application developer may generate a single stock quote web application that may be launched and or displayed from any of the aforementioned web pages for the various publicly traded companies. That single stock quote web application may be automatically customized according to the context of each of the web pages such that appropriate stock quotes are provided for each company depending on the web page from which the application is launched. Further the color scheme and company name and or logo displayed may change according to the context of whichever page from which the web application is launched to name just a couple examples of how a web application may be modified in accordance with claimed subject matter. The same application launched and or displayed at one web site may vary in appearance and or operation from that same application launched and or displayed at another web site. In an example embodiment the grouping of web pages related to financial information for the publicly traded companies may represent one example of an endpoint. Individual web pages may also be referred to as endpoints as described below.

For another example of how a web application may be automatically customized according to contextual elements of a web page consider a web application that provides movie start times. A web site for this example may include separate web pages for individual movies currently playing in theatres for example. The grouping of web pages related to these movies may comprise an endpoint for example. For each of the web pages of this example movies endpoint a web application area may be provided from which one or more web applications may be launched. For the current example a movie start time application may be provided. If a user is visiting a web page for a first movie desires to know available start times for that movie for theaters within a specified region the user may launch the movie start time web application. Alternatively the web application may be launched automatically upon the user accessing the web site. A number of start times for a number of theaters in a region specified by the user or otherwise determined may be displayed to the user. Similarly if the user visits the web page for a second movie movie start times for the second movie may be displayed. In each case the identical web application may be utilized but the appearance and or operation of the web application may be automatically customized depending on contextual elements of the web pages. In the case of the movie start time application the web application may perform a syntactic analysis of the information contained on the web page associated with a particular movie to determine the title of the movie and the web application may in turn retrieve the proper start times for that movie. For another example hooks or tags may be provided by the web application that may allow the web page publisher to provide values for one or more variables related to the content and or context of one or more web pages. A web application platform may utilize the provided values to determine in which manner s to modify the appearance and or operation of the web application.

For the example of application platform may provide a code segment comprising a web application execution environment to a web browser platform . In an example embodiment web application execution environment may be embedded in a web page that is also transmitted to web browser platform . Web application execution environment may comprise a dropzone in one or more embodiments although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

At least in part in response to receiving the web application execution environment web browser platform may display a web page and may execute the code segment transmitted by the application platform. In an embodiment and as described more fully below the code segment for the web application execution environment or dropzone may provide a user with a gallery of web applications from which to choose. If the user selects a web application a web application selection value may be transmitted by web browser platform to application platform for an example embodiment.

Also for an embodiment web browser platform may provide one or more web page contextual elements to application platform . The contextual elements may comprise any of a wide range of information about the web page within which the web application execution environment may be displayed. At least in part in response to receiving web page contextual elements application platform may modify and or customize the selected web application and the customized web application may be transmitted to web browser platform . Web browser platform may execute customized web application within the web application execution environment in the web page. For an example embodiment web browser platform may comprise a user computing platform upon which a browser application may be executed and web pages displayed. Web browser platform may comprise a processor not shown to execute a plurality of instructions stored on a storage medium to enable the web browser platform to browse web pages and or execute and or display web applications.

For one or more embodiments web page contextual elements may be determined by web browser platform executing web application execution environment to perform a syntactic analysis of the web page. For one or more embodiments the syntactic analysis may comprise a syntactic analysis of a universal resource identifier such as a uniform resource locator URL associated with the web page. Also in one or more embodiments web page contextual elements may be provided by a web page developer in the way of hooks and or tags that may comprise variable values embedded in the web page perhaps as metadata and made available to application platform . In this manner no syntactic analysis need be performed although such an analysis may be performed in one or more embodiments.

As depicted in application platform may further comprise a web page publisher to provide one or more web pages to web browser platform . However for one or more other embodiments the web page publisher may comprise a third party publisher. One such embodiment is described in more detail below.

In a further aspect for one or more embodiments applications may use the web page contextual elements described above in conjunction with contextual information related to one or more users to customize the operation and or appearance of the application. For example contextual information gathered from a user s friends list may be used in conjunction with contextual information from a web page to modify an application. One example application may comprise a fantasy sports application that may also provide scores from games and or other sports related information. If a user is viewing a page related to a first sports team the application may display scores and or other information related to that team and may also for one example embodiment display a listing of any individuals from the user s friends list that have players from the first team on their fantasy teams. If the user visits a page from a second sports team the application may display scores and or other information related to the second team and may also display a listing of any of the user s friends that have players from the second sports team on their fantasy teams. Thus for one or more embodiments the appearance and or operation of an application may be based not only on contextual information gathered from a web site but may also be based on other information such as for one example embodiment information related to a user s friends list. The information related to the user s friends list may include information related to the profiles for the individuals on the list and may further include information related to the individual friend s activities with respect to one or more applications.

Although for the example depicted in personalized start page user profile page application landing page sports endpoint and movie endpoint comprise entities separate from application platform other embodiments are possible with one or more of the web pages and or endpoints as part of the same entity as application platform and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Application landing page for embodiments described herein may comprise a web page dedicated to one or more web applications such as application . User profile page may be utilized to store information related to user for this example embodiment. Information such as names identifiers email addresses biographical information interests hobbies etc. to name but a few types of information that may be maintained in a personal profile page. For one or more embodiments user profile page may also include one or more friends lists containing names or identifiers of individuals and or groups of individuals associated with user . Further for an embodiment profile page may support web applications such as application and one or more views of application may be supported. Also for one or more embodiments public shared and or private information supplied by user to user profile page may be accessed by web application thereby providing the web application with a source of user information and or social connections. User may be provided an option for an example embodiment to not share private information and or to not share particular pieces of private information.

As depicted in and as described above web application for this example embodiment may be accessed by user in any of several ways. For example web application may be accessed via a number of endpoints. Endpoints for this example may include application landing page user profile page and or personalized start page as well as endpoints and previously described. For an embodiment a web developer may be provided with one or more application programming interfaces API discussed more fully below that may permit the developer to specify a web application that can be automatically made available to user without requiring the web developer to produce different code for the different endpoints. Rather application platform may receive code from the web developer for application and may provide support for application for each of the different endpoints. Multiple views of web application may also be supported at the different endpoints.

As used herein the term endpoint is meant to include any network location through which a user may access information. A network may include for example the Internet and network locations may include but are not limited to web sites and or web pages. In an embodiment an endpoint may comprise a web site and in other embodiments an endpoint may comprise at least a portion of a web site. For example a web site may include one or more pages associated with a sports theme and may also include one or more pages associated with a movies theme. The one or more sports pages may comprise one or more endpoints and the one or more movie pages may comprise one or more additional endpoints. For another example an endpoint may comprise a profile page for a user and or may comprise a personalized start page for the user. Of course these are merely example endpoints and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In an embodiment user may install an application such as web application using a number of techniques. For an example if user is visiting one of the endpoints supported by application platform user may make a selection from a pull down menu a hypertext link and or other form of a call to action that may cause an area to be opened on the displayed page. Such an area may be referred to as a dropzone as discussed more fully below although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. A dropzone may comprise for an example an area of a web page in which web applications may be displayed.

For an example embodiment if user makes a selection that causes the dropzone to appear an application gallery may also be displayed. The application gallery for an example embodiment may be displayed approximately adjacent to the dropzone and or may be displayed within the dropzone although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. The application gallery for an embodiment may provide user with a number of web applications from which the user may choose. The application gallery may comprise information related to the various available web applications including such information for example as application names descriptions of the applications one or more categories for the applications the number of other installations of the various applications profile information for web application developers icons for the applications and or screenshots of one or more of the applications. Further types of information that may be provided to user may include but are not limited to statistics regarding popularity of one or more applications perhaps both among the user s friends and the larger public ranking information for one or more applications perhaps provided by third party testers for example reviews of one or more applications by journalists and or users and or the developer s terms of service. At least portions of such information may be provided to application platform by the web application developer and such information may be offered in the form of metadata associated with the developed web application. Of course these are merely examples of the types of information that may be included in an application gallery and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

For an embodiment through the application gallery a user may browse applications by application name category ratings rankings developer name tags and or other information provided by the application gallery. Further a user may for some embodiments browse friend s applications as well as applications the user may have installed and or otherwise accessed at other endpoints. A user may select an application for an example embodiment by clicking on an icon associated with the application using a mouse and or other pointing device although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

For an embodiment upon receiving the selection from the user the selected application such as web application for the current example may be opened in the dropzone. For one or more embodiments user may test or demo the application for a period of time before permission may be granted for the application platform to access user personal and or social data. At the conclusion of the test period or whenever user may instruct the gallery may be closed and the selected web application may be added to the user s profile. As such the application may be made available to the user from any of the endpoints associated with application platform .

Also for an embodiment upon receiving the selection from the user one or more contextual elements related to the web page displaying the dropzone may be provided to application platform . Application platform may customize the web application in appearance and or in operation in some fashion based at least in part on the contextual elements. As described previously the contextual element values may be determined for one or more embodiments through a syntactical analysis of the web page to detect appropriate information. For example if user is visiting one of the web pages associated with sports endpoint the web application may be customized in order to reflect the team colors and or logo of the sports team associated with that particular web page. In this manner the web application may have a customized appearance and or operation for each web page for example.

In an embodiment the selected application may be stored in an application bin on the user s profile page. The application bin may show for example an application s name and or icon. For one or more embodiments if the user clicks on the name and or icon the application may be opened in a full view described below on the application s landing page although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

For one or more embodiments endpoints may be maintained by the same entity as application platform although in one or more other embodiments one or more endpoints may be maintained by third party web page publishers as is discussed more fully below. For third party web page publishers a gallery API may be provided to enable the third party developer to generate an application gallery thereby enabling the third party publisher to import applications supported by application platform and further enabling user to browse and select web applications associated with application platform from an endpoint not directly maintained by the application platform.

As used herein the term install as it refers to a web application is meant to denote associating the web application with a particular user. For example if a web application is installed it may be stored in a list of applications as part of the user s profile and the web application may be made available to the user by way of a menu or some other technique at one or more endpoints associated with the user.

In the example techniques described above note that a single installation may result in the web application being installed at multiple endpoints thus enhancing the user s web experience and perhaps enhancing the user s attraction to endpoints associated with application platform thereby encouraging the user to visit the endpoints more frequently. Also the customized web applications based on web page context may further enhance the user s experience and may also encourage the user to visit the web sites more frequently and or to access the web applications more frequently.

In this example embodiment application platform may provide so called back end services such as data storage application development and or page assembly as well as provide social back end database information for just a few examples of services that may be provided. Thus web site publisher may be relieved of the burden of directly providing these services and the cost and or overhead of developing and or maintaining the application execution environment may be reduced. For this example embodiment web page publisher may represent a third party publisher mentioned above. In other embodiments web page publisher may not be a third party publisher but may rather be part of the same entity as application platform . For example a web site may publish web pages and may also maintain an application platform in accordance with embodiments described herein. Thus although depicts web page publisher and application platform as separate entities other embodiments are possible where web page publisher and application platform comprise a single entity.

Application platform web page publisher and user computing platform for this example may be coupled to each other by way of a network . For this example embodiment network may comprise the Internet although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. The web is an Internet service that organizes information through the use of hypermedia. HTML is typically used to specify the contents and format of a hypermedia document e.g. a web page . XML may also be used to specify the contents and format of a web page. As used herein a web site may refer to a collection of related web pages. The term web page as used herein may relate to any electronic document that may be accessed via a network such as the Internet. As alluded to above in one or more embodiments web pages for an example embodiment may comprise documents coded using one or more markup languages such as for example HTML and or XML although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

User computing platform for this example embodiment may comprise a processor not shown that may execute instructions including executing instructions related to a web browser . Web browser for this example may comprise a conventional web browser to be executed by user computing platform to allow a user to access and view web pages from across the Internet including pages published by web page publisher . To view a page published by web page publisher browser may cause the page to be downloaded from web page publisher to user computing platform where the page may be displayed to the user. A web page may be identified by a Uniform Resource Identifier URI such as for example a Uniform Resource Locator URL associated with the web page.

For this example embodiment web page publisher may desire to implement an application execution environment on a web page. For example web page publisher may desire to provide a game application for use by one or more users across the Internet in the hopes that the game application may entice users to visit a web site. Application platform may have stored thereon instructions implementing the desired application and may further comprise a code segment associated with the desired application. Application platform may transmit the code segment to web page publisher . For this example the code segment may comprise instructions related to the application which for this example may comprise the game application although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. For an embodiment the code segment may comprise Javascript instructions to implement the application. Javascript is a scripting language that may be embedded in an electronic document such as for example an HTML based document. Although the example embodiments described herein utilize Javascript to implement applications Javascript is merely an example of type of code that may be used to implement an application and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. For example for one or more additional embodiments the code segment may comprise code implemented in PHP such as for example PHP release 5.2.6 although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. PHP is another example of a scripting language that may be embedded into an electronic document such as an HTML document for example although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

For one or more embodiments the code segment may be embedded in one or more web pages by web page publisher . One such web page is labeled page in . Web page may include an area on the page on which an application may be run. The application area may be referred to as a dropzone mentioned above in one or more embodiments although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Further the code segment may be referred to as a droplet such as for example droplet of and may comprise instructions related to the application as well as instructions that may be utilized to implement the application execution area dropzone on web page . As used herein for an embodiment the term code segment is meant to include one or more instructions used to implement an application execution area in an electronic document such as for example a web page. Also as used herein for one or more embodiments the terms code segment and droplet may be interchangeable although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

User computing platform may via browser request the aforementioned web page with the embedded droplet from web page publisher . At least in part in response to receiving web page browser may execute the embedded code segment. The code segment may include instructions that may enable user computing platform to communicate with application platform for an example embodiment. For example the execution of droplet may direct user computing platform to request information related to the application from application platform . User computing platform may also provide one or more contextual elements related to web page to application platform . Application platform may at least in part in response to receiving the provided contextual information and also at least in part in response to receiving the request for information provide customized information to user computing platform which may in turn utilize the information in the execution of the droplet. The customized information may be generated by application platform based at least in part on the provided contextual information. The customized information related to the application may comprise any of a wide range of information types including but not limited to social backend information user profile information assembled pages executable code application configuration information information related to the look and feel of the application etc.

As described above a droplet may be associated with one or more applications. For one embodiment the droplet may direct user computing platform to communicate with application platform in order to implement the one or more web applications. Thus web page publisher may provide the one or more applications to user computing platform but does not incur the overhead of providing application services such as data storage transfer and application execution as these services are provided by application platform . For one or more embodiments droplet may comprise relatively few instructions perhaps merely one or a few lines of code in some examples and the bulk of the application processing responsibilities may be performed by application platform . In this manner web page publisher may distribute an application such as the application associated with droplet with relative ease due to the relatively small size of the droplet. Further the small size of the droplet may allow an application developer to widely disseminate the application to a wide range of web page publishers if desired. Web page publishers may be enticed to include the application in their web pages because of the relatively low overhead associated with embedding the code segment and because the heavy lifting of the application execution and or data transfer storage associated with the application is handled by application platform .

As described above a user may for one or more embodiments access a web application from more than one web page. Thus application platform may distribute droplet to more than one web page publisher or for another embodiment web page publisher may include droplet in more than one web page. Browser may access the web application associated with droplet from any of the web pages embedding droplet provided that the user has sufficient permissions to access the web application. Application platform may maintain a user profile for the user that may include an application bin for the user as described above. Thus application platform may maintain permissions for various applications for the user. For an embodiment web page publisher may publish a landing page for the application and or may publish a personalized start up page for the user. For one embodiment a user profile page may be published and or maintained by application platform . Of course these are merely examples of how user information and or permissions may be managed and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

For one or more embodiments the application associated with droplet may be largely executed by application platform with relatively little processing performed by user computing platform . For one example embodiment application platform may receive keystroke and or pointing device information from user computing platform and in response may assemble appropriate pages of javascript code to be executed by browser . Compute intensive operations may be performed by application platform thereby relieving user computing platform of much of the burden of executing the application for an example embodiment. Browser for this example may receive the assembled pages of javascript code and may run the code using a javascript interpreter coupled with browser . The application may be displayed by browser in the web page s dropzone. Thus the overhead incurred by user computing platform in executing the application is relatively small. Further because web page publisher is not involved in the transfer of the assembled javascript pages web page publisher may not incur a load other than initially delivering web page including droplet to user computing platform .

For one or more other embodiments user computing platform may be more involved in the execution of the application than was the case in the previous example embodiments. The droplet and its associated application may be architected in a manner to allocate execution responsibilities in anyway that may be advantageous.

Application platform may execute instructions that may implement an API as well as a software stack comprising an application layer a batch layer and an assembly layer . Application layer may comprise instructions that if executed direct application platform to generate one or more applications. Further web applications may be customized and or modified depending at least in part on contextual information for one or more web pages as previously described. Any of a wide range of application types may be implemented. Examples of application types that may be implemented may include but are not limited to fantasy sports games word processors spreadsheet calculators card games board games financial applications musical composition and notation educational applications language study applications etc. to name but a few. Of course these are merely examples of application types and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

Batch layer may comprise instructions that if executed may batch together one or more applications provided by application layer . Assembly layer may comprise instructions that if executed direct application platform to assemble one or more pages of code according to the batched one or more applications for delivery to user computing platform . For this example the pages of code may comprise javascript code although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Further for this example embodiment web page publisher may communicate with application platform by way of API described in more detail below. Communications may take place through droplet for this example embodiment. That is droplet may include code that if executed may provide programming hooks for web publisher in order for web publisher to make a variety of requests of application platform . Droplet may further include hooks for web publisher to provide contextual information for web page for an example embodiment.

It should be noted that for one or more embodiments web publisher may access API through droplet and that for one or more embodiments there may be no other paths through which web publisher may access API . For one or more embodiments where web publisher comprises the same entity as application platform other paths of communication may be provided between the web publisher and the application platform. Further for one or more embodiments API may comprise a programming interface through which a web application developer may specify a web application that may be represented in multiple views across multiple endpoints as described previously.

In another embodiment a web page publisher may provide the one or more contextual elements to the application platform. However these are merely examples of how contextual information for a web page may be determined and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. At block the determined one or more contextual elements may be received from the user computing platform and at block the appearance and or operation of the web application may be modified based at least in part on the one or more contextual elements of the web page.

Information may be assembled wherein the information may be related to one of a plurality of views of the web application to be rendered at a user computing platform and to be displayed by the user computing platform in a plurality of application areas for a respective plurality of web pages associated with the user. Also the application area may comprise a dropzone as described herein and the web application may be modified according to a context of the web page discussed above. However these are merely examples of web pages that may be associated with a user and of application areas for those web pages and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects. Embodiments in accordance with claimed subject matter may include more than less than or all of blocks . Also the order of blocks is merely an example order and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

First device second device and third device as shown in may be representative of any device appliance or machine that may be configurable to exchange data over network . By way of example but not limitation any of first device second device or third device may include one or more computing devices and or platforms such as e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer a workstation a server device or the like one or more personal computing or communication devices or appliances such as e.g. a personal digital assistant mobile communication device or the like a computing system and or associated service provider capability such as e.g. a database or data storage service provider system a network service provider system an Internet or intranet service provider system a portal and or search engine service provider system a wireless communication service provider system and or any combination thereof.

Similarly network as shown in is representative of one or more communication links processes and or resources configurable to support the exchange of data between at least two of first device second device and third device . By way of example but not limitation network may include wireless and or wired communication links telephone or telecommunications systems data buses or channels optical fibers terrestrial or satellite resources local area networks wide area networks intranets the Internet routers or switches and the like or any combination thereof. As illustrated for example by the dashed lined box illustrated as being partially obscured of third device there may be additional like devices operatively coupled to network .

It is recognized that all or part of the various devices and networks shown in system and the processes and methods as further described herein may be implemented using or otherwise include hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

Thus by way of example but not limitation second device may include at least one processing unit that is operatively coupled to a memory through a bus .

Processing unit is representative of one or more circuits configurable to perform at least a portion of a data computing procedure or process. By way of example but not limitation processing unit may include one or more processors controllers microprocessors microcontrollers application specific integrated circuits digital signal processors programmable logic devices field programmable gate arrays and the like or any combination thereof.

Memory is representative of any data storage mechanism. Memory may include for example a primary memory and or a secondary memory . Primary memory may include for example a random access memory read only memory etc. While illustrated in this example as being separate from processing unit it should be understood that all or part of primary memory may be provided within or otherwise co located coupled with processing unit .

Secondary memory may include for example the same or similar type of memory as primary memory and or one or more data storage devices or systems such as for example a disk drive an optical disc drive a tape drive a solid state memory drive etc. In certain implementations secondary memory may be operatively receptive of or otherwise configurable to couple to a computer readable medium . Computer readable medium may include for example any medium that can carry and or make accessible data code and or instructions for one or more of the devices in system .

Second device may include for example a communication interface that provides for or otherwise supports the operative coupling of second device to at least network . By way of example but not limitation communication interface may include a network interface device or card a modem a router a switch a transceiver and the like.

Second device may include for example an input output . Input output is representative of one or more devices or features that may be configurable to accept or otherwise introduce human and or machine inputs and or one or more devices or features that may be configurable to deliver or otherwise provide for human and or machine outputs. By way of example but not limitation input output device may include an operatively configured display speaker keyboard mouse trackball touch screen data port etc.

Embodiments claimed may include one or more apparatuses for performing the operations herein. These apparatuses may be specially constructed for the desired purposes or they may comprise a general purpose computing platform selectively activated and or reconfigured by a program stored in the device. The processes and or displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computing platform and or other apparatus. Various general purpose computing platforms may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct a more specialized computing platform to perform the desired method. The desired structure for a variety of these computing platforms will appear from the description below.

Embodiments claimed may include algorithms programs and or symbolic representations of operations on data bits or binary digital signals within a computer memory capable of performing one or more of the operations described herein. Although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect one embodiment may be in hardware such as implemented to operate on a device or combination of devices whereas another embodiment may be in software. Likewise an embodiment may be implemented in firmware or as any combination of hardware software and or firmware for example. These algorithmic descriptions and or representations may include techniques used in the data processing arts to transfer the arrangement of a computing platform such as a computer a computing system an electronic computing device and or other information handling system to operate according to such programs algorithms and or symbolic representations of operations. A program and or process generally may be considered to be a self consistent sequence of acts and or operations leading to a desired result. These include physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical and or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and or otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers and or the like. It should be understood however that all of these and or similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. In addition embodiments are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings described herein.

Likewise although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect one embodiment may comprise one or more articles such as a storage medium or storage media. This storage media may have stored thereon instructions that if executed by a computing platform such as a computer a computing system an electronic computing device a cellular phone a personal digital assistant and or other information handling system for example may result in an embodiment of a method in accordance with claimed subject matter being executed for example. The terms storage medium and or storage media as referred to herein relate to media capable of maintaining expressions which are perceivable by one or more machines. For example a storage medium may comprise one or more storage devices for storing machine readable instructions and or information. Such storage devices may comprise any one of several media types including but not limited to any type of magnetic storage media optical storage media semiconductor storage media disks floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs electrically programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable and or programmable read only memories EEPROMs flash memory magnetic and or optical cards and or any other type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and or capable of being coupled to a system bus for a computing platform. However these are merely examples of a storage medium and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

The term instructions as referred to herein relates to expressions which represent one or more logical operations. For example instructions may be machine readable by being interpretable by a machine for executing one or more operations on one or more data objects. However this is merely an example of instructions and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In another example instructions as referred to herein may relate to encoded commands which are executable by a processor having a command set that includes the encoded commands. Such an instruction may be encoded in the form of a machine language understood by the processor. For an embodiment instructions may comprise run time objects such as for example Java and or Javascript and or PHP objects. However these are merely examples of an instruction and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the discussion herein it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating selecting forming enabling inhibiting identifying initiating receiving transmitting determining estimating incorporating adjusting modeling displaying sorting applying varying delivering appending making presenting distorting and or the like refer to the actions and or processes that may be performed by a computing platform such as a computer a computing system an electronic computing device and or other information handling system that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical electronic and or magnetic quantities and or other physical quantities within the computing platform s processors memories registers and or other information storage transmission reception and or display devices. Further unless specifically stated otherwise processes described herein with reference to flow diagrams or otherwise may also be executed and or controlled in whole or in part by such a computing platform.

It should also be understood that although particular embodiments have just been described the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope to a particular embodiment or implementation. For example one embodiment may be in hardware such as implemented to operate on a device or combination of devices for example whereas another embodiment may be in software. Likewise an embodiment may be implemented in firmware or as any combination of hardware software and or firmware for example. Such software and or firmware may be expressed as machine readable instructions which are executable by a processor. Likewise although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect one embodiment may comprise one or more articles such as a storage medium or storage media. This storage media such as one or more CD ROMs and or disks for example may have stored thereon instructions that when executed by a system such as a computer system computing platform or other system for example may result in an embodiment of a method in accordance with the claimed subject matter being executed such as one of the embodiments previously described for example. As one potential example a computing platform may include one or more processing units or processors one or more input output devices such as a display a keyboard and or a mouse and or one or more memories such as static random access memory dynamic random access memory flash memory and or a hard drive although again the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope to this example.

In the preceding description various aspects of claimed subject matter have been described. For purposes of explanation specific numbers systems and or configurations were set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it should be apparent to one skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that claimed subject matter may be practiced without the specific details. In other instances well known features were omitted and or simplified so as not to obscure claimed subject matter. While certain features have been illustrated and or described herein many modifications substitutions changes and or equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and or changes as fall within the true spirit of claimed subject matter.

