---

title: Systems and methods for tracking and guiding high intensity focused ultrasound beams
abstract: The present disclosure provides systems and methods for tracking and guiding high intensity focused ultrasound beams (HIFU). More particularly, the disclosed systems and methods involve use of acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) imaging to detect the focal position of an HIFU capable transducer relative to a target area. The focal position may then be 5 compared to a desired treatment location and the orientation and focus of the transducer may be adjusted accordingly so as to reconfigure and/or refocus the HIFU beam relative to the desired treatment location. The desired treatment location may be dynamically determined using bleed detection and localization (BD&L) techniques. Thus, the desired treatment location may be determined using 3D Doppler ultrasound based techniques, wherein changes in quantitative 10 parameters extracted from the Doppler spectra, e.g., Resistance Index (RI), are used to detect and localize a bleeding site for treatment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09420988&OS=09420988&RS=09420988
owner: KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS N.V.
number: 09420988
owner_city: Eindhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20081217
---
The United States government may hold license and or other rights to the systems and methods claimed herein. Development of the systems and methods claimed herein was supported by DARPA Funding Opportunity No. DARPA05 01DBAC.

The present disclosure relates to high intensity focused ultrasound HIFU applications. More particularly the present disclosure relates to systems and methods for tracking and guiding HIFU beams. Although exemplary embodiments relate primarily to acoustic hemostasis the disclosed systems and methods apply to and for any HIFU application including but not limited to HIFU treatments for uterine fibrosis cancer and cardiac arrhythmias such as atrial fibrillation.

Blood loss from extremity wounds is the number one cause of preventable battlefield death today. In civilian casualties exsanguinations due to internal bleeding are the most significant cause of death in trauma victims. Hemostatic therapies such as HIFU and electrocautery may be used to quickly stop internal bleeding to prevent onset of progressive and irreversible hemorrhagic shock which ultimately leads to death. The onset of bleeding must be detected and the site spatially localized in order to treat these trauma wounds effectively. As part of the DARPA DBAC program at Philips Research Briarcliff 3D Doppler ultrasound based techniques have been developed to detect and localize a bleeding site herein referred to as Bleed Detection and Localization or BD L automatically by tracking the change in quantitative parameters extracted from the Doppler spectra such as Resistance Index RI . For these emergent care type applications the device is designed to be operator independent and therefore image based feedback allowing user interaction and control is not available.

Hence an extremely essential component for success of HIFU based hemostasis treatments is the ability to continually track if the therapy is being delivered at the correct location. Due to tissue heterogeneities and lack of quantitative information on the local thermal and acoustic properties there exist errors between the intended spatial location of treatment and the actual physical location of the HIFU focus. A tracking and guiding system must therefore actively refocus the HIFU beam to the desired location so that the therapy is delivered at the appropriate site without unwanted damage to surrounding normal tissue. Although BD L techniques may be repeated to determine if a bleed rate has slowed or stopped these techniques do not provide any quantitative feedback or spatial information relating to the optimal reorientation or refocusing of the therapy relative to the desired treatment location.

A number of researchers have proposed the use of B mode images to provide imaging feedback and spatially locate the HIFU beam by tracking the presence of hyper echogenicity. However it has been demonstrated that this information is not always reliable since hyperecho can appear quite some time after the tissue has already been ablated and when the local tissue temperature is close to boiling. The inhomogeneous structure of tissue would make direct B mode visualization of the focal region of HIFU preceding boiling even more challenging. See B. A. Rabkin V. Zderic and S. Vaezy Hyperecho in ultrasound images of HIFU therapy involvement of cavitation Ultrasound Med Biol vol. 31 pp. 947 56 2005. An effective tracking method must be able to locate the HIFU focus without causing any damage to normal tissue.

The following U.S. foreign and PCT patents and publications provide examples of prior art relating to hemostasis and or HIFU systems. In all cases the disclosed systems and methods fail to provide adequate means for tracking and guiding therapeutic HIFU beams.

European Patent Publication No. EP0989822 describes a method of producing remote hemostasis within a patient body. The method involves identifying an internal bleeding site and focusing therapeutic ultrasound energy through tissue from a radiation source to coagulate blood adjacent to the site. An imaging transducer provides an image of a portion of a patient body having an internal bleeding site typically using pulsed Doppler color flow imaging elasticity imaging an angiogram or the like. Thus this patent publication describes a method for effecting hemostasis and the use of ultrasound methods to identify a bleed. In particular the noted European publication does not describe a method for identifying the location of HIFU focus to ensure treatment of a desired location.

U.S. Patent Publication No. US2005 215899 describes a method for identifying ablated tissue using acoustic radiation force impulse imaging. The disclosed method involves generating acoustic radiation force impulse ARFI image data wherein a region of increased stiffness represents ablated tissue. ARFI is thus employed to determine the extent and size of an ablated region. The disclosure does not however propose a method of detecting the HIFU focus prior to commencing ablation in order to determine if the ablation will be applied at the desired site. In addition the sonication for ARFI is not generated using the HIFU transducer.

PCT Publication No. WO2004075987 describes an HIFU delivery method for tracking and accounting for body movement of a subject patient. The disclosed method involves acquiring ultrasound image data of the patient s target area and comparing current image data with previously acquired image data. Discrepancies are analyzed in order to detect and account for patient movement prior to HIFU treatment administration. This patent publication does not involve the use of ARFI. Rather the disclosure relies on using a sequence of ultrasound images to determine and account for movement. In addition the disclosed technique does not detect the HIFU beam focus.

U.S. Patent Publication No. US2005 203399 describes an image guided HIFU device for therapy in obstetrics and gynecology. A frame ensures that the alignment between a high intensity focused ultrasound HIFU transducer designed for vaginal use and a commercially available ultrasound image probe is maintained so that the HIFU focus remains in the image plane during HIFU therapy. This patent publication does not propose the use of ARFI to determine the location of the HIFU focus. The proposed mechanical frame is specifically applicable for the transducer geometry in obstetrics and gynecology and cannot be extended for other clinical applications of HIFU. Furthermore the HIFU focus position is determined only within a 2D plane.

Despite efforts to date a need remains for systems and methods for effective tracking and guiding HIFU beams. These and other needs are satisfied by the present disclosure as will be apparent from the description which follows.

The present disclosure provides systems and methods for facilitating high intensity focused ultrasound HIFU . More particularly the present disclosure provides systems and methods that facilitate beam tracking and guidance in HIFU applications.

Generally the presently disclosed systems and methods involve the use of acoustic radiation force impulse ARFI imaging to determine the focal position of an HIFU capable transducer relative to a target area. The focal position may then be compared to a desired treatment location and the orientation and focus of the transducer may be adjusted accordingly so as to direct the HIFU beam relative to the desired treatment location. In exemplary embodiments ultrasound elasticity imaging based techniques are used to estimate the focal position of the HIFU beam in real time. The estimated focal position is compared relative to a desired treatment location. Typically a processor is used to calculate and adjust the focus and orientation of the transducer so as to optimally direct the HIFU beam relative to the desired treatment location.

Ultrasound elasticity based techniques such as Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse ARFI imaging may be used to determine the focal position. See e.g. K. Nightingale R. Bentley and G. Trahey Observations of tissue response to acoustic radiation force opportunities for imaging vol. 24 pp. 129 38 2002 K. Nightingale M. S. Soo R. Nightingale and G. Trahey Acoustic radiation force impulse imaging in vivo demonstration of clinical feasibility vol. 28 pp. 227 35 2002. In exemplary embodiments involving ARFI imaging the transducer induces a radiation force relative to a target area e.g. using and or based upon low power sonication. The focal position may be determined by detecting the point of maximum tissue displacement following the radiation force.

In general the systems and methods disclosed as related to tracking and guiding of an HIFU beam may be implemented before HIFU therapy commences. Thus the disclosed systems and methods advantageously facilitate focusing of an HIFU beam relative to a treatment location while minimizing collateral damage to surrounding tissue. In exemplary embodiments Bleed Detection and Localization BD L techniques may be used to detect and localize a desired treatment location. Thus HIFU beam tracking and beam focusing steps may be cyclically interleaved with BD L and HIFU beam administration to continuously ensure that HIFU therapy is being delivered to the desired treatment location.

The disclosed systems and methods have broad based applications and offer many advantages over prior art as discussed in the present disclosure. Additional features functions and benefits of the disclosed systems and methods will be apparent from the description which follows particularly when read in conjunction with the appended figures.

Advantageous systems and methods for facilitating High Intensity Focused Ultrasound HIFU are provided according to the present disclosure. In general systems disclosed herein include i an HIFU capable transducer ii a diagnostic imaging probe and iii a processor. The disclosed methods typically involve determining the focal position of an HIFU capable transducer and associated tracking guidance steps functionalities.

According to the present disclosure acoustic radiation force impulse ARFI imaging may be used to detect the focal position for an HIFU capable transducer relative to a target area. In exemplary embodiments the diagnostic imaging probe is used to probe a target area and obtain imaging data before and after inducement of a radiation force relative to the target area. The radiation force is typically induced using the HIFU capable transducer e.g. using low power sonication. The radiation force causes motion of the target area and the region of greatest tissue displacement represents the focal position of the transducer. Thus in exemplary embodiments the imaging data is compared and or analyzed using the processor to determine the focal position for the HIFU capable transducer relative to a target area.

After the focal position of the HIFU capable transducer is detected the orientation and or focus of the transducer may be adjusted such that a new adjusted focal position substantially matches a desired treatment location. In exemplary embodiments the focal position of the transducer is continuously detected and adjusted so as to dynamically track and guide the HIFU beam relative to a desired treatment location and or treatment path. Generally treatment using the HIFU beam e.g. administration of high power sonication will not commence until the detected focal position substantially matches a desired treatment location thereby reducing the risk of harm to surrounding tissues.

In exemplary embodiments the desired treatment location may be dynamically determined using BD L techniques. Thus in exemplary embodiments the desired treatment location is determined using 3D Doppler ultrasound based techniques wherein changes in quantitative parameters extracted from the Doppler spectra e.g. Resistance Index RI are used to detect and localize a bleeding site for treatment. In general other detection and localization techniques may by employed instead of or in conjunction with BD L in order to determine the desired treatment area.

With reference now to an exemplary HIFU system for inducing hemostasis is depicted. The system includes an HIFU capable transducer a diagnostic imaging probe and a processor . The transducer and probe are positioned relative to a target area . The target area may generally be determined by a rough initial assessment of an injury.

After the transducer and probe are positioned relative to the target area BD L techniques may be used to detect the spatial location of the bleed site the desired treatment location . In general the desired treatment location is detected using 3D Doppler spectra analysis. Sonication for producing the Doppler effect may be provided by the transducer . Data for the spectra analysis is obtained by the probe and analyzed by the processor .

Once the desired treatment location is determined the focal position for the transducer may be detected using ultrasound elasticity techniques such as ARFI imaging. In exemplary embodiments diagnostic level tracking pulses are applied relative to the target area and a first set of backscatter data is obtained for use as a reference. After the reference backscatter data is obtained low power sonication is applied using the transducer relative to the target area . The low power sonication induces a radiation force relative to the target area which causes tissue displacement. In alternative embodiments the probe may also be used to induce the radiation force alone or in conjunction with the transducer . After the radiation force has caused tissue displacement a second set of tracking pulses may be applied relative to the target area and a second set of backscatter data may be obtained. The processor is used to compare and analyze the first and second sets of backscatter data to determine the focal position of the transducer . The focal position of the transducer corresponds to the point of maximum tissue displacement.

After the focal position of the transducer has been determined the processor adjusts the orientation and or focus of the transducer such that the new focal position substantially matches the desired treatment location . Thus the HIFU beam focus is configured to coincide with the bleed site determined using BD L techniques.

Thus the disclosed systems and methods provide may be advantageously employed in various high intensity focused ultrasound HIFU applications. The disclosed systems and methods facilitate tracking and guiding of HIFU beams relative to a target region and or target path. The disclosed systems methods have wide ranging applicability including acoustic hemostasis techniques treatment of uterine fibrosis cancer treatment and arterial fibrillation treatments.

Although the present disclosure has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments and implementations thereof the disclosed systems and methods are not limited to such exemplary embodiments implementations. Rather as will be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art from the description provided herein the disclosed systems and methods are susceptible to modifications alterations and enhancements without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the present disclosure expressly encompasses such modification alterations and enhancements within the scope hereof.

