---

title: Adaptive user interface for multi-source systems
abstract: A method for controlling configuration display screens within a client-host multi-source system, including transferring look & feel parameters from a host device to a client device, setting parameters of a configuration program for the client device, according to the look & feel parameters transferred by the transferring, generating, by the configuration program, a graphic image of a screen, the graphic image conforming to the look & feel parameters, and displaying the graphic image on a display screen of the host device. A system and a computer-readable storage medium are also described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08316308&OS=08316308&RS=08316308
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08316308
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080606
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 933 780 entitled ADAPTIVE USER INTERFACE FOR MULTI SOURCE SYSTEMS filed on Jun. 8 2007 by inventors Itay Sherman Eyal Bychkov and Yaron Segalov.

The field of the present invention is electronic devices that are coupled together in a multi source system.

A standalone device SAD is generally fully operative by itself and can be selectively configured by a user. The SAD may or may not have its own user interface for setting its configuration. When the SAD does not have its own user interface an external host such as a PC computer is used to configure the SAD. Selection of a configuration generally affects functionality of the SAD since different configurations correspond to different features.

For systems that include combinations of two or more inter connected SADs setting of their respective configurations is complicated. Such systems are common in consumer electronics and include inter alia an MP3 player connected to a PC a digital camera connected to a PC a digital camera connected to a printer and a router connected to a PC. Generally when two SADs are inter connected either 

Conventional client host systems of inter connected SADs use one of two methods for configuration namely a driver method and a screen method .

The driver method is used in cases where a user runs an application that controls the client behavior from a PC host such as an MP3 player connected to a PC computer. According to the driver method the host SAD is loaded at the time of connecting the host with the client or pre loaded beforehand with a software stack referred to as a driver . The driver instructs the host how to send commands to the client. Drivers may be implemented at different software levels from low level operating system OS drivers to application level drivers with user interfaces. A host SAD loaded with a driver is able to control the client SAD and to configure operations of the client SAD using a communication channel between the host and the client.

Drivers are generally customized for specific operating systems but are not customized for specific client device original equipment manufacturers OEMs .

The screen method is used in cases where a user browses a configuration screen at a designated IP address such as a router or a printer connected to a PC computer. According to the screen method the host SAD displays a graphics screen that includes information transferred from the client SAD. The host itself is unaware of the content displayed on its screen to the user or of the actions performed by the user. The screen method generally uses internal browsers that are installed in host SADs and obviates the need for OEMs to develop their own dedicated OS drivers.

For a given client SAD the same configuration screen is displayed for any host SAD connected therewith since the screen corresponds to the client SAD which not need be aware of the specific host that is being used to configure it.

Both the driver method and the screen method are client specific and as such are unable to provide a uniform look feel for a user. A look feel refers to visual elements that are presented in a user interface and include inter alia font background color menu design position and shape of buttons and other controls and arrangement of various options. As a result of this drawback the user experiences different interfaces when he switches from a host configuration screen to a client configuration screen.

Aspects of the present invention overcome drawbacks of conventional multi source systems and provide methods and systems for inter connecting two or more SADs that communicate with one another in such a way as to maintain a unified user interface look feel. Using the present invention a user experiences the same looking interface when he switches from a host configuration screen to a client configuration screen. Both screens have the same look feel and a client SAD appears transparent to the user and does not appear as a foreign device.

Using the present invention a client SAD is aware of the specific host SAD connected thereto and adapts its screen graphics to the host s user interface. As such the same user interface displays both host and client configurations and a unified look feel is maintained.

The present invention is of particular advantage with multi source systems where a client SAD is connected to one of multiple host SAD s. Methods of the present invention ensure that the user experiences a homogenous look feel in each host SAD source when he navigates from the host configuration screen to the client configuration screen.

Embodiments of the present invention provide methods and systems for on line configuration of controlled software which flexibly support a client connected to one of multiple hosts yet retain the same operational control over the client and which adapt the look feel so as to integrate the client control software in the host software environment in a homogeneous way. A host SAD is used to configure the multi source system and the host user interface is maintained as a fixed point of reference for the user. Adaptation to the host user interface is carried out in each client SAD.

The present invention is advantageous for a network of auxiliary display devices connected to a computer. The present invention introduces a bridge device that displays information on the bridge device screen according to the look feel of auxiliary display devices connected thereto. As such the present invention enhances the SideShow architecture of Microsoft by enabling a bridge device to display a plurality of display device s information and by enabling one display device to display another display device s information with the look feel of the other display device.

There is thus provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for controlling configuration display screens within a client host multi source system including transferring look feel parameters from a host device to a client device setting parameters of a configuration program for the client device according to the look feel parameters transferred by the transferring generating by the configuration program a graphic image of a screen the graphic image conforming to the look feel parameters and displaying the graphic image on a display screen of the host device.

There is further provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a computer readable storage medium storing program code for causing an electronic device to transfer look feel parameters from a host device to a client device to set parameters of a configuration program for the client device according to the look feel parameters that were transferred to generate by the configuration program a graphic image of a screen the graphic image conforming to the look feel parameters and to display the graphic image on a display screen of the host device.

There is yet further provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a multi source client host system that maintains a uniform look feel user interface including a host device including a central processing unit a storage memory for storing look feel parameters for a graphical user interface the graphical user interface employing a plurality of graphic images for user interaction a display for displaying the graphic images employed by the graphical user interface and a connector for transmitting the look feel parameters to a client device and for receiving at least one of the graphic images from the client device when the client device is attached to the host device a client device that can be attached to and detached from the host device including a central processing unit a configuration program for generating at least one of the graphic images employed by the graphical user interface the at least one of the graphic images conforming to the look feel parameters and a connector for transmitting the at least one of the graphical images to the host device and for receiving the look feel parameters from the host device when the client device is attached to the host device and a communication channel between the host transceiver and the client transceiver for data transmission.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for controlling configuration display screens within a client host multi source system including transferring look feel parameters from a host device to a client device setting parameters of a configuration program for the client device according to the look feel parameters transferred by the transferring generating by the configuration program a web page located at a designated URL the web page conforming to the look feel parameters and browsing the designated URL by a web browser in the host device.

There is moreover provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a computer readable storage medium storing program code for causing an electronic device to transfer look feel parameters from a host device to a client device to set parameters of a configuration program for the client device according to the look feel parameters that were transferred to generate by the configuration program a web page located at a designated URL the web page conforming to the look feel parameters and to browse the designated URL by a web browser in the host device.

There is further provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a multi source client host system that maintains a uniform look feel user interface including a host device including a central processing unit a storage memory for storing look feel parameters for a graphical user interface the graphical user interface employing a plurality of web pages for user interaction a web browser for browsing and rendering the web pages employed by the graphical user interface and a connector for transmitting the look feel parameters to a client device when the client device is attached to the host device a client device that can be attached to and detached from the host device including a central processing unit a configuration program for generating at least one of the web pages employed by the graphical user interface the at least one of the web pages conforming to the look feel parameters and a connector for receiving the look feel parameters from the host device when the client device is attached to the host device and a communication channel between the host transmitter and the client receiver for data transmission.

There is yet further provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for controlling configuration display screens within a client host multi source system including transferring a client configuration program from a client device to a host device setting parameters of the transferred client configuration program according to look feel parameters of the host device generating by the host device via the client configuration program a graphic image of a client configuration screen the graphic image conforming to the host look feel parameters and displaying the graphic image on a display screen of the host device.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a computer readable storage medium storing program code for causing an electronic device to transfer a client configuration program from a client device to a host device to set parameters of the transferred client configuration program according to look feel parameters of the host device to generate by the host device via the client configuration program a graphic image of a client configuration screen the graphic image conforming to the host look feel parameters and to display the graphic image on a display screen of the host device.

There is further provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention an electronic device with extended application functionality including circuitry for device hardware for accessing and controlling hardware functions circuitry for at least one application a connector for coupling with another hardware device the other device having circuitry for device hardware for accessing and controlling hardware functions and a coupled device control module for enabling the at least one application to identify access and control the hardware functions on the other device when the other device is connected to the connector.

There is yet further provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a bridge system for auxiliary display devices connected to a computer including a computer running a plurality of mini programs each mini program sending information of a specific nature from the computer to a corresponding auxiliary display device for presentation to a user a plurality of auxiliary display devices each auxiliary display device including an auxiliary screen and each auxiliary display device having look feel display parameters for receiving information from the corresponding plurality of mini programs and for displaying the received information on said auxiliary screens according to the corresponding look feel parameters and at least one bridge device coupled to the computer each bridge device coupled to at least one of the auxiliary display devices each bridge device including a bridge screen and each bridge device receiving information from a corresponding at least one of the mini programs forwarding the received information to the at least one of the auxiliary display devices and displaying the received information on the bridge screen according to the look feel display parameters of the at least one of the auxiliary display devices.

There is moreover provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for managing auxiliary display devices connected to a computer including receiving XML information of a specific nature from a mini program running on a computer and receiving look feel parameters from an auxiliary display device that displays information in a display format conforming to the look feel parameters for presentation to a user transforming the XML information to a BMP image conforming to the look feel parameters of the auxiliary display device transmitting the BMP image to the auxiliary display device for presentation to the user receiving an indication of an action performed by the user on the auxiliary display device in response to viewing the BMP image generating a second BMP image based on the received indication conforming to the look feel parameters of the auxiliary display device and further transmitting the second BMP image to the auxiliary display device for further presentation to the user.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for managing auxiliary display devices connected to a computer including receiving XML information of a specific nature from a mini program running on a computer and receiving look feel parameters from an auxiliary display device that displays information in a display format conforming to the look feel parameters for presentation to a user transforming the XML information to a BMP image conforming to the look feel parameters of the auxiliary display device transmitting the BMP image to the auxiliary display device for presentation to the user receiving additional XML information from the mini program generating a second BMP image based on the additional XML information conforming to the look feel parameters of the auxiliary display device and further transmitting the second BMP image to the auxiliary display device for further presentation to the user.

Aspects of the present invention relate to multi source systems with inter connected standalone devices SADs where one of the SADs serves as a host device and is used to configure itself and to configure the client devices in the system. Using embodiments of the present invention the client devices adapt the look feel of their configuration screens so as to conform to the look feel of the host configuration screen. The host interface look feel thereby serves as a fixed and familiar point of reference for a user of the multi source system.

The look feel of an interface relates to visual elements that a user experiences when he interacts with the interface. The look feel includes inter alia 

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention look feel parameters may be defined in an XML document. Such an XML document may for example take the form provided below.

Reference is now made to and which are displays of various configuration screens for a host SAD and a client SAD connected together within a multi source system wherein the host and client screens are controlled so as to have the same look feel in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The host shown in is a media player such as an MP3 player and the client shown in is a cell phone. Shown in is a sample interface for the host. The screen shown in corresponds to the host configuration screen before the client is connected to the host and the screen shown in corresponds to the client configuration screen after the client is connected to the host. It is noted that both screens have the same look feel. Specifically when the client SAD is attached to the host SAD the font size type and color remain the same and the screen size and background color remain the same.

In addition the screen template is preserved for two soft keys and and a bar above them that includes their corresponding function names. Soft keys are multi function keys that use part of a display to identify their function at any moment. Soft keys are generally located directly below the display. In soft keys and correspond respectively to Vol. Up and Vol. Down functions as indicated by bar and in soft keys and correspond respectively to Call and End functions respectively as indicated by bar .

The host shown in is a digital camera and the client shown in is another electronic device. Shown in is a sample interface for the host. Again in accordance with the present invention the look feel of client configuration is the same as that of host configuration . As may be seen in the look feel of the configuration interface includes a left panel a right panel . The left panel is created by the host. When the client is attached to the host the left panel may be altered by the host. Thus in the left panel includes a control element in the shape of a star for toggling between host mode and client mode.

The right panel is controlled by the host when the host mode is running and controlled by the client when the client mode is running. In either case the content displayed in the right panel conforms to the look feel parameters for the host. The look parameters of the right panel including inter alia the dimensions of the right panel its background color its font type size and color and its menu header and location are the same in . Similarly the feel parameters of the right panel including inter alia assignment of client options and to corresponding host buttons and the jog dial options are also the same in .

The host shown in is a GPS navigator and the client shown in is another electronic device. Shown in is a sample interface for the host. Again in accordance with the present invention the look feel of client configuration is the same as that of host configuration . For example it is noted that the X remains in the top right corner when the client is attached to the host.

More generally reference is now made to which is a simplified block diagram of a multi source system with a uniform interface for configuring a host and a client in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Shown in is a host SAD which includes a controller a display and an optional power management subsystem . Host SAD has its own look feel parameters stored therein. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention some or all of the following files and data are stored with look feel parameters 

Also shown in is a client SAD . Client SAD includes a controller an optional display and an optional power management subsystem . Client SAD also includes a configuration program which enables a user to select configuration settings for client SAD .

Host SAD and client SAD communicate via respective connectors and over a communication channel . Communication channel may be a physical or a wireless channel. Host look feel parameters are transmitted by connector over communication channel and received by connector . In turn the look feel parameters are transmitted to configuration program .

Configuration program has a default screen look feel. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention configuration program adapts its look feel accordingly so as to conform to look feel parameters of host SAD . Configuration program generates a graphics screen image that conforms to look feel parameters . The graphics screen image is transmitted to connector which transmits it further to connector over communication channel . The graphics image is then transmitted to host display for display to a user.

As the user interacts with the displayed graphics image and issues successive commands the commands are transmitted via communication channel back to configuration program which generates successive graphics screen images in response to the user commands. The successive graphics screen images based again on look feel parameters are transmitted to display for further display to the user.

Reference is now made to which is a simplified flowchart of a first embodiment of a method for controlling a configuration interface for a client SAD so as to conform to the look feel of a configuration interface for a host SAD in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The flowchart of is divided into three columns. The leftmost column indicates steps performed by a user who is operating a multi source system including the host SAD and the client SAD. The middle column indicates steps performed by the host SAD and the rightmost column indicates steps performed by the client SAD.

At step the client device is attached to the host device. At step the host transfers its own look feel parameters to the client. As described hereinabove the host look feel parameters may be specified in an XML document. The host may also transfer requisite font files for fonts specified in the look feel parameters.

At step the client adapts the look feel of its configuration program according to the host look feel parameters. At step the client configuration program generates a configuration screen in the form of a bitmap image that conforms to the look feel of the host configuration screen.

At step the host receives the bitmap image of the configuration screen from the client and at step the host displays the bitmap image which conforms to the host look feel. As such the user interface displayed by the host preserves a unified look feel even when being used to configure the client.

It may thus be appreciated that the host displays its own configuration options and the client configuration options on the same screen and with a common look feel. The host may display both configurations at the same time or may switch between host options and client options but in each case the same visual user interface is presented to the user.

At step the user interacts with the system and performs an action the response to which may require a change in the display screen. At step the host sends the client a notification of the user action. The notification sent by the client is generally an indication of a key press by the user. For example the host may have a 4 4 keypad matrix and sends the client a notification of which of the 16 keys was pressed by the user.

At step the client configuration program translates the user action notification into a command based on an appropriate key assignment table and generates a new bitmap image for a configuration screen in response to the command as appropriate. At step the host receives the new configuration screen in the form of the new bitmap image from the client. Finally at step the host displays the altered screen which again conforms to the look feel of the host. The method then returns to step as the user continues to interact with the system.

Reference is now made to which is a simplified flowchart of a second embodiment of a method for controlling a configuration interface for a client SAD so as to conform to the look feel of a configuration interface for a host SAD in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The flowchart of is divided into three columns. The leftmost column indicates steps performed by a user who is operating a multi source system including the host SAD and the client SAD. The middle column indicates steps performed by the host SAD and the rightmost column indicates steps performed by the client SAD. The method of uses a web interface for a user to configure the client device.

At step the client device is attached to the host device. At step the host device transfers its look feel parameters to the client device. The host may also transfer requisite font files for fonts specified in the look feel parameters. At step the client configuration program sets its parameters according to the host look feel parameters.

At step the client configuration program generates a web page which conforms to the host look feel parameters. At step the client device uploads the web page to a URL on a web server. At step the host using a web browser installed therein browses the URL and renders and displays the web page.

Referring back to in this second embodiment host device includes a web browser which browses and renders web pages stored in a web server . The web pages are generated by configuration program so as to comply with host look feel parameters and are uploaded to web server .

Proceeding now with at step a user who is viewing the web page displayed at step performs an action. At step the host sends a notification of the user action to the client. At step the client translates the user action into a command and the client configuration program generates a new web page in response to the command as appropriate. At step the client uploads the web page to a URL on the web server. At step the host browses the URL and renders and displays the new web page. The method then returns to step as the user continues to interact with the system.

Reference is now made to which is a simplified flowchart of a third embodiment of a method for controlling a configuration interface for a client SAD so as to conform to the look feel of a configuration interface for a host SAD in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The flowchart of is divided into three columns. The leftmost column indicates steps performed by a user who is operating a multi source system including the host SAD and the client SAD. The middle column indicates steps performed by the host SAD and the rightmost column indicates steps performed by the client SAD.

At step the client device is attached to the host device. At step the client transfers its configuration program to the host thus enabling the host to generate the appropriate user interfaces.

At step the host sets parameters of the client s configuration program corresponding to the host look feel parameters. At step the host by itself generates a screen image for client configuration running the client s configuration program. At step the host displays the screen image.

At step a user who is viewing and interacting with the user interface issues a command. At step the host generates a new screen image in response to the user command as appropriate running the client s configuration program. At step the host displays the new screen image. The method then returns to step as the user continues to interact with the system.

It will thus be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the methods of B and C enable a host SAD in a multi source system to display both host configuration settings and client configuration settings on the host screen simultaneously with a uniform look feel. As such a user of the system experiences a homogeneous interface and it is transparent to the user that two different SADs are operating.

Generally key assignments are provided for each host mode of a host device and for each client mode of a client device. A device may have multiple modes e.g. a cell phone may have a dialer mode and a messaging mode. Shown in TABLES IA and IB are example button key assignments for a host mode and a client mode respectively within a multi source system. TABLES IA and IB correspond to respectively where the host is an MP3 player running in media player mode and the client is a cell phone running in dialer mode. The buttons of the system are labeled B B together with a TOUCH button on the touch screen displayed with a question mark. The buttons have one assignment of functions in host mode and another assignment of functions in client mode. Button B for example is assigned a play function in TABLE IA and is assigned a function to enter the numeral 8 in TABLE IB.

Reference is now made to which is an illustration of button keys for a multi source system that have different key assignments for host mode and client mode but a common look feel user interface for setting host and client configuration parameters in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in buttons B B correspond to the four rows of three buttons on the keypad in the order from top left to bottom right. Buttons B and B correspond to the soft keys and in . Button B corresponds to the speaker button.

It is also noted that buttons B B B and B have dual functions corresponding to a short duration press and a long duration press. Key press and key release events may be analyzed so as to distinguish between long duration and short duration presses.

When running in host mode the key assignments correspond to media player key assignments as in TABLE IA. However when running in client mode the key assignments correspond to conventional cell phone key assignments as in TABLE IB. It may be seen from TABLE IA that in host mode buttons B and B are not used and long button presses are not distinguished from short presses.

In accordance with the present invention when the client device is not attached to the host device or when the client device is attached to the host device but the multi source system is running in host mode the host key assignments such as those indicated in TABLE IA are used. Switching between host mode and client mode may be performed for example using a toggle switch such as control element in . When the client device is attached to the host device the client sends the host a list of user functions it supports such as the various functions indicated in TABLE IB. The host then assigns the functions to buttons and sends the client the key assignments.

When the client is attached to the host and the multi source system is running in client mode the graphic image displayed on the host screen or a portion of the graphic image that is assigned to the client is generated by the client and transmitted to the host for display. When the user presses a button the button press event is sent to the client and translated by the client according to the key assignment for that button. If the user presses a touch screen then the X Y coordinates of the press location are send to the client. In response the client generates a new graphic image conforming to the look feel parameters that the client received from the host. The new graphic image is transmitted to the host for display thus completing a cycle of user input and screen display in response to the input. Generally several such cycles are performed in an interactive session.

When the key assignments distinguish between short and long duration presses as in TABLE IB the host may do the analysis to make the distinction and pass the result long press or short press to the client. In an alternative embodiment the host may send the key press and key release events to the client and the client then determines the type of press long or short from these events.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to general methods and systems for enabling a first electronic device such as client SAD to identify access and control functions of a second electronic device such as host SAD that is coupled with the first electronic device. In this regard reference is now made to which is a simplified block diagram of a system for extending application functionality in modular and coupled hardware devices in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Shown in are two devices and labeled respectively as Device A and Device B. Each device is an electronic device having device hardware and respectively that performs various hardware functions. In addition Device A includes an operating system one or more applications and a coupled device control module CDCM . Device A and Device B are coupled by a physical connector .

CDCM is used as a programming layer that allows applications on Device A to access information and functionality of hardware on Device B and to thereby control Device B s functionality and data. For example Device A may be a mobile phone and Device B may be a media player. CDCM enables applications on the mobile phone to identify and control hardware features of the media player.

In one embodiment of the present invention CDCM is implemented as a software module extension to a virtual machine VM . For example CDCM may be implemented as a Java VM functionality extension set which can be described in a Java Specification Request JSR . CDCM is implemented as an application programming interface API extension to the VM which is exposed to applications and which allows applications to identify access and control hardware and software functions on Device B. Such API enables identification of device hardware and facilitates data exchange between applications and hardware and software components irrespective of their locations on Device A and Device B.

In another embodiment of the present invention CDCM is implemented as an extension to operating system . In yet another embodiment of the present invention CDCM is implemented as a standalone module.

It will thus be appreciated by those skilled in the art that embodiments of the present invention in a broad sense enable a first electronic device to access and control a second electronic device coupled therewith and to automatically adapt its user interface to be compatible with that of the second device.

The present invention applies to a network of auxiliary display devices connected to a PC computer. In this regard reference is now made to which is a prior art block diagram of auxiliary display devices connected to a computer. Shown in is a computer with an input device such as a keyboard or mouse. Computer is connected to multiple auxiliary display devices . Each auxiliary display device is used to display information stored on computer such as e mail messages calendar reminders or such other notifications. Auxiliary display devices include inter alia mobile phones GPS navigators remote controls with built in screens keyboards with built in screens wearable display devices music players digital picture frames game stations home entertainment systems and such other consumer electronic CE devices.

An auxiliary display device may be embedded within computer such as an in lid attached laptop display. An auxiliary display device may be a separate peripheral device connected to computer by a wired or wireless connection including inter alia USB Bluetooth TCP IP or other such data communication protocols existing now or to be developed in the future. An auxiliary display device may also be a designated area within a main screen of computer .

Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. recently introduced its SideShow technology into Windows Vista which enables developers to write mini applications on computer that send appropriate data from computer to auxiliary display devices as required by the display devices. These mini applications referred to as gadgets communicate with Windows SideShow application programming interfaces APIs and are independent of the software layers below them. Examples of such gadgets include i a calendar gadget that periodically retrieves data from a calendar application such as Microsoft Outlook and sends the data to an auxiliary display device ii a weather gadget that retrieves data from a web service and updates an auxiliary display device with weather information in designated locales and iii an instant messaging gadget that provides presence information regarding a user s buddies on an auxiliary display device.

Microsoft SideShow requires that auxiliary display devices be able to interpret the Simple Content Format SCF and optionally the iCalendar data format. SCF defines a set of XML elements and attributes that allow content dialog and menu pages to be sent to auxiliary devices . In addition SCF enables extended custom content types to be defined.

Auxiliary display devices may be powered even when computer is in a low power mode such as standby mode or hibernate mode.

Auxiliary display devices behave as client devices which receive their data from their corresponding gadgets running on computer which behaves as a host. This is indicated in by referring to display devices as client client respectively and by referring to computer as host computer. The designation of a device as host or client in relates to the display of information. A host device sends display information to a client device which the client device displays on its screen. Display devices do not manipulate data that they display and such data remains within the auxiliary display devices and is not transmitted elsewhere. Moreover if an auxiliary display device has an internal application then such application is not shared with other devices. As such display devices are dumb terminals.

Reference is now made to which is a simplified block diagram of auxiliary display devices and bridge devices connected to a computer in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Shown in is a computer with an input device such as a keyboard or mouse and auxiliary display devices . also includes two devices and referred to as bridges with respective input devices and . Bridges and are connected directly to computer and connected directly to one another. Auxiliary display devices are arranged so that devices are connected to bridge devices are connected to bridge and devices are connected directly to computer .

Bridges own two types of gadgets namely i gadgets generated from their own internal running applications and ii gadgets inherited from other devices. For example bridge owns its own gadgets as well as gadgets inherited from host computer and from bridge . Auxiliary display devices generally do not own gadgets and can only display information from gadgets that are presented to them.

Bridge devices and combine capabilities of host computer and client devices . As clients bridge devices and receive display information from other devices and present the display information on their own screens. As hosts bridge devices and act as sources of display information for display on client device screens. For example bridge may receive display information from computer or from clients and display such information on its own screen and conversely bridge may transmit display information to computer or to clients for display on their screens. Display information transmitted by bridge may be generated by bridge from internal applications running on device or may be information received from other devices. Moreover bridge can combine display information that it generates from its internal applications with display information that it receives from remote devices the latter referred to as inherited notifications so as to create single display information for devices that connect to bridge .

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention computer connects to bridges and via wireless links. Although display information is rendered as a bitmap image it is cumbersome to transmit bitmap images over wireless links due to their large sizes. Instead computer transmits display information to bridges and in a compressed XML format. Auxiliary display devices generally have limited CPU power and limited software resources and may only support simpler data such as BMP image data. In such cases bridges and transform the display information they receive in compressed XML format to a BMP format for forwarding to display devices .

Further in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention such transformation uses look feel parameters appropriate to each corresponding display device as described hereinabove with reference to . The XML BMP transformation performed by bridges and uses configuration information provided by each corresponding target display device such as the sample XML document described hereinabove in transforming the compressed XML data to a BMP image for the target display device.

Bridges and may split their displays to include both display information provided by computer as well as display information generated from internal applications running on bridges and .

It is noted that the architecture of enables clients to display gadget information that does not originate from host computer . As such preferably each bridge device maintains an assignment table that holds data defining which device owns which gadget and which client performs an operation that requires a change of display. General notifications such as a new e mail message transmitted by an e mail gadget are distributed to all clients that use this e mail gadget. TABLE II is a sample assignment table maintained by bridge device .

Reference is now made to which is a simplified flow chart of a method for generating a display on a bridge device according to look feel parameters of an auxiliary display device in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At step a user connects a bridge such as bridge to an auxiliary display device such as client and to a PC computer such as computer . At step the bridge receives look feel configuration parameters from client and XML display information from the gadget installed on computer for device .

At step the bridge transforms the XML display information along with display information generated by applications internal to the bridge to generate a BMP image for display on the client device wherein the BMP image conforms to the client device s look feel parameters. At step the client device displays the BMP image received from the bridge on its client screen. At step the user interacts with the client device and performs an action that requires a change in display. Alternatively at step a notification is received from the gadget for device . In either case the method proceeds to step where the bridge generates a new BMP accordingly as appropriate. Thus the cycle of user interaction new notifications new BMP image continues.

Referring back to the prior art block diagram of it is noted that control over which display information is targeted to which client is controlled by computer . Computer acts as a crossbar switch routing gadget data to devices. A user of computer configures the exact display information that is presented to each of the connected auxiliary display devices .

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention control over such display configuration is extended. Referring now to each host device in may define which gadgets it wishes to expose to devices connected to it. The host device further designates whether each connected device either i has permission to further export the gadget display information to devices that are connected to it or else ii is limited to displaying the gadget display information only on its own display. Such an extended display configuration is set up using a utility presented to the user referred to herein as a gadget configuration utility or as a gadget configuration gadget .

A bridge device such as bridge is a host and as such has its own gadget configuration utility. The bridge presents the user with bridge internal applications that generate display information and gadgets provided by hosts connected to the bridge for those gadgets for which the bridge is permitted to forward their display information. Thus bridge for example presents the user with its internal applications that generate display information and with those gadgets for host and bridge for which host and bridge are permitted to forward the gadget s display information to bridge .

A client such as auxiliary display device is not responsible for configuring gadgets. However in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a host may define its own configuration utility as a gadget which in turn enables the client to control the display information sent to it by the host. In this regard reference is now made to which is a simplified flow chart for a method for a client to control the display information sent to it by a host in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At step a host device arranges its self owned internal gadgets and its inherited external gadgets into a gadget configuration gadget. At step the host device s gadget configuration gadget is sent to client auxiliary displays. At step a user of the client selects desired gadgets in a configuration display window. At step the user s selections are sent to the host which alters its data content accordingly and sends requested notifications to the client.

For example referring to at step auxiliary display devices display gadgets on host computer on bridge and on bridge via bridge and at step the user can select some or all of these gadgets.

It will thus be appreciated by those skilled in the art that by implementing auxiliary display devices as bridges display information may be shared between the display devices. In distinction client devices in prior art architectures behave as passive isolated displays. For example using the present invention if client is a GPS device client is an audio player and client is a mobile phone and if these clients are implemented as bridges connected to one another then each client device and is able to review the other clients displays.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to the specific exemplary embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

