---

title: Mobile banking architecture
abstract: A system, method, and computer program product are provided for interfacing a user device to a transaction system. An interface is provided in order to call a function on the transaction system for performing the transaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08308058&OS=08308058&RS=08308058
owner: Sybase, Inc.
number: 08308058
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080731
---
The present application is related to commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 183 390 filed Jul. 31 2008 entitled MOBILE BANKING WITH SHORT MESSAGE SERVICE which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to an interface for a transaction system and more specifically to a mobile banking architecture.

With the prevalence of wireless data service over cellular phones many business operations have facilitated access to their online services by providing their own services specifically tailored to these phones. For example merchants may operate a mobile webpage separate from their primary webpage which is specially formatted to ease navigation by a cell phone user. Since cell phones suffer from a number of accessibility issues often due to the limited input and output options providing means for interacting with the business that are specially designed for cell phone users may be the only way of ensuring a quality experience.

Financial institutions are among the business operations that attempt to cater to cell phone users. As previously discussed often this includes designing a special web page for cell phone users to access their account information taking into account display constraints on a cell phone screen and the input capabilities of a cell phone. Other financial institutions may instead rely on an automated service which a telephone user may call allowing the user to navigate a series of prompts in order to perform a financial transaction.

Although the efforts of these financial institutions as well as other business operations has increased the efficiency of interacting with the business using either data or voice communications on cellular phones implementing such facilities often involves tremendous expenditure by the business. Not only must the business run a service for accepting the communications from its customers but must also design implement and maintain the infrastructure which allows the communications received from its customers to manipulate their records on the business existing systems.

Accordingly what is desired is an interface for enabling business operations such as financial institutions to rapidly integrate a variety of communication channels such as mobile data communications into their business systems.

Embodiments of the invention include a method for interfacing a user device to a transaction system. The method includes receiving an instruction from the user device parsing the instruction to obtain a corresponding transaction authenticating the user device calling a function on the transaction system for performing the transaction receiving a response from the transaction system and transmitting the response to the user device.

Embodiments of the invention additionally include a system for interfacing a user device to a transaction system. The system includes a first receiving module to receive an instruction from the user device a parsing module to parse the instruction to obtain a corresponding transaction an authentication module to authenticate the user device a service manager module to call a function on the transaction system for performing the transaction a second receiving module to receive a response from the transaction system and a transmitting module to transmit the response to the user device.

Embodiments of the invention further include a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having computer program logic recorded thereon for enabling a processor to provide an interface between a user device and a transaction system. The computer program logic includes first receiving means for enabling a processor to receive an instruction from the user device parsing means for enabling a processor to parse the instruction to obtain a corresponding transaction authenticating means for enabling a processor to authenticate the user device calling means for enabling a processor to call a function on the transaction system for performing the transaction second receiving means for enabling a processor to receive a response from the transaction system and transmitting means for enabling a processor to transmit the response to the user device.

Embodiments of the invention also include an interface between a user device and a transaction system. The interface includes a channel manager that establishes communications with the user device over one or more channels the channel manager configured to receive a transaction from the user device a security module that provides authentication an application programming interface that enables the mapping of the transaction to a function on the transaction system and a service manager that calls the function corresponding to the transaction using the application programming interface.

Additional embodiments of the present invention include a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having computer program logic recorded thereon for enabling a processor to provide an interface between a user device and a transaction system. The computer program logic includes communicating means for enabling a processor to establish communications with the user device over one or more channels the communicating means configured to receive a transaction from the user device authenticating means for enabling the processor to provide authentication interfacing means for enabling a processor to provide an application programming interface for enabling the mapping of the transaction to a function on the transaction system and servicing means for enabling a processor to call the function corresponding to the transaction using the application programming interface.

Further embodiments of the present invention include a method for interfacing a user device to a transaction system. The method includes communicating with the user device over one or more channels receiving a transaction from the user device over one of the one or more channels authenticating the user device providing an application programming interface for enabling the mapping of the transaction to a function on the transaction system and calling the function corresponding to the transaction using the application programming interface.

Further features and advantages of the invention as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. It is noted that the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described herein. Such embodiments are presented herein for illustrative purposes only. Additional embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein.

The present invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings generally like reference numbers indicate identical or functionally similar elements. Additionally generally the left most digit s of a reference number identifies the drawing in which the reference number first appears.

The following detailed description of the present invention refers to the accompanying drawings that illustrate exemplary embodiments consistent with this invention. Other embodiments are possible and modifications can be made to the embodiments within the spirit and scope of the invention. Therefore the detailed description is not meant to limit the invention. Rather the scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

It would be apparent to one of skill in the art that the present invention as described below can be implemented in many different embodiments of software hardware firmware and or the entities illustrated in the figures. Any actual software code with the specialized control of hardware to implement the present invention is not limiting of the present invention. Thus the operational behavior of the present invention will be described with the understanding that modifications and variations of the embodiments are possible given the level of detail presented herein.

Financial system will commonly be a banking system throughout this specification the system for enabling a user to access his or her financial records and perform financial transactions such as balance inquiries or transfers of funds from one of the user s accounts to another in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. However one skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that system need not be limited to the banking or financial context and may include other systems which a user device operates with. By way of example and not limitation mobile banking interface will be discussed throughout this specification as providing an interface for banking functions available to a user through financial institution system but one skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that interface and system could instead allow a user to access through user device other systems. By way of example and not limitation interface and system could allow a user of user device to access a merchant system substituted for financial system in order to initiate a purchase accessed through a merchant system interface substituted for mobile banking interface .

Financial system is in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a webpage front end to a banking database not shown . Normally a user would access such a system by opening a web browser on a personal computer an accessing the webpage directly utilizing functions embedded within the webpage to interact with their account information stored at the financial institution. In accordance with an additional embodiment of the present invention financial system is a network accessible entry point for users such as customers of the financial institution to access their account information. In accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention financial system is a core banking system manually operated by a bank employee. One skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that additional configurations for financial system are within the scope of the present invention and the aforementioned configurations are presented by way of example not limitation.

Mobile banking interface eases the communications between user device and financial system by receiving instructions from user device and translating the instructions into operations understandable by financial system as further disclosed below in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

Furthermore mobile banking interface includes logic for establishing communications with user device over wireless network in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Wireless network is in accordance with an additional embodiment of the present invention a cellular communications network.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention user device is configured to transmit data conforming to the Wireless Application Protocol WAP over wireless network . In accordance with an additional embodiment of the present invention user device is configured to transmit data conforming to the Short Message Service SMS protocol over wireless network . In accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention user device is configured to transmit smart client data over an additional data communications protocol over wireless network . One skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that additional communication protocols are usable over wireless network in order to allow a user device to access mobile banking interface .

In the case of a user device which communicates using either WAP data or smart client data an Internet gateway is used to receive the WAP data or smart client data over wireless network and forward the messages over the Internet to mobile banking interface in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. One skilled in the relevant arts will recognize that the precise configuration of the Internet gateway and the Internet as shown in need not exist in every system where instead other means for forwarding the WAP data and smart client data communications to mobile banking interface are implemented.

If user device instead communicates using SMS data over wireless network an SMS gateway is used to receive the SMS data communications from wireless network and forward the communications to mobile banking interface in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In accordance with an additional embodiment of the present invention SMS gateway is the Sybase 365 system provided by Sybase Inc. of Dublin Calif. One skilled in the relevant arts will recognize that the precise configuration of the SMS gateway as shown in need not exist in every system where instead other means for forwarding the SMS data communications to mobile banking interface are implemented.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention user device transmits SMS data to SMS gateway through the use of a special short code assigned to the mobile banking interface in order to allow SMS gateway to properly route the SMS data to the mobile banking interface . In accordance with an additional embodiment of the present invention the short code is instead assigned to the financial institution which is fronted by mobile banking interface .

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention user device transmits WAP data or smart client data to Internet gateway through the use of an Internet Protocol IP address assigned to the mobile banking interface in order to allow the Internet gateway to properly route the WAP data or smart client data to the mobile banking interface . In accordance with an additional embodiment of the present invention the IP address is instead assigned to the financial institution which is fronted by mobile banking interface .

Mobile banking interface comprises a channel manager module for managing communications over one or more data channels such as the channels associated with smart client data SMS data and WAP data in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Channels are handled by a corresponding service module within channel manager such as rich client service module for interfacing with smart client data in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In accordance with an additional embodiment of the present invention channel manager comprises a command driven SMS service module for interfacing with SMS data . In accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention channel manager comprises a WAP service module for interfacing with WAP data . One skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that additional service modules can be developed and added to channel manager for interfacing with additional communication channels.

Further details regarding the command driven SMS service of channel manager are disclosed in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 183 390 filed Jul. 31 2008 entitled MOBILE BANKING WITH SHORT MESSAGE SERVICE which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Channel manager further comprises a security layer for authenticating a user or a user device in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The security layer is configured to determine a level of authentication required for performing an instruction from a user received through a service module such as service modules and authenticating the user or user device and enabling the processing of the instruction if authentication is achieved in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

Channel manager further comprises service manager in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Channel manager facilitates the communication of instructions received from a user device through a service module such as service modules and to the financial system through a connector module which is fully discussed below in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. One skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that the capabilities of service manager need not be centralized in a single module and can instead be optionally distributed throughout channel manager . In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the capabilities of service manager are localized within each service module such as service modules and . In accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention the channel manager is part of the service manager .

Connector module enables channel manager to call functions in financial system through for example service manager for performing the instructions received from a user device through a service module such as service modules and in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The functionality of connector module is achieved by providing connector application programming interface API within connector module in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

Connector API provides an interface to functions provided by financial system which can be called by service manager to carry out instructions received from a user device over a service module such as service modules and . Examples of functions provided by financial system include bill pay functionality transfer functionality automated clearing house ACH functionality wire transfer functionality balance inquiry functionality and general banking functionality. One skilled in the relevant arts will recognize that financial system can provide additional functionality in order to enable a user to interact with the financial institution and the aforementioned functions provided by financial system are described by way of example and not limitation. Furthermore as previously disclosed such functionality is not limited to financial services and can be extended to other applications including any application involving user interaction.

In order to implement the functions described in connector API a connector plug in is provided in connector in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Plug in implements one or more of the functions described by connector API such as for example transfer functionality or balance inquiry functionality. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a developer creates an implementation of a plug in for use with connector . In accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention multiple plug ins are provided concurrently for connecting to multiple financial institution system back ends. One skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that a number of configurations exist for plug in and the aforementioned configurations are provided by way of example and not limitation.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention connector API provides a function specification for defining the input and output parameters used by the function. Service manager is configured to call the function if it has been implemented in plug in . The function is implemented in plug in by defining a function for each of the one or more functions described by connector API the implemented function having the input and output parameters defined by the corresponding function specification in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. For example the specification for the transfer function can take a source account a destination account and a dollar value as inputs and provide a confirmation of success or failure as the output. An actual implementation of the transfer function within plug in would use the aforementioned inputs to perform the transfer transaction and would return a success or failure message in accordance with the function specification of connector API . In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention this implementation is accomplished through the use of virtual functions.

Plug in implements the functions by calling one or more remote functions of financial system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. For example if financial system does not have a dedicated communications service for interfacing with plug in but has an online banking service plug in can be implemented to access the financial system s online banking service over the Internet to ultimately perform the implemented function in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

Operational module is a web application that allows employees of the financial institution to perform employee oriented banking tasks such as reporting case management or entitlement management in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. User profile management module is a web application that allows a customer of the financial institution as well as employees of the financial institution to manage the customer s profile such as user profile as it relates to the mobile banking interface in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

Alert module is configured to send messages to the user device related to an alert condition in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. For example mobile banking interface can provide an alert to the user device through alert module if a user s account balance drops below a certain amount.

Audit module provides a mechanism for storing events and messages that pass through mobile banking interface in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention audit module is configured to store all instructions received from a user device in channel manager . One skilled in the relevant arts will recognize that audit module can be configured to log any communications occurring within mobile banking interface either internal to mobile banking interface or in communications with systems outside of mobile banking interface such as financial system . Audit module is further operable to provide audit log reports to employees of the financial institution through operational module in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

I18N module enables the internationalization of mobile banking interface in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention all messages sent to a user device are defined in resource files and thus can be localized. Similarly formats for dates numbers and currencies can be customized for each locale in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In accordance with an additional embodiment of the present invention instructions received from a user device at channel manager are interpreted in accordance with a customizable instruction language corresponding to a user locale.

At step the mobile banking interface determines whether authentication is needed in order to process the parsed instruction. If no authentication is needed the method continues to step otherwise if authentication is needed the method then proceeds to step where an authentication request is sent to the user device. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention authentication is performed by the security layer of mobile banking interface . At step the mobile banking interface determines whether authentication was successful. If authentication was unsuccessful the method proceeds to step where processing ends. If authentication was successful the method continues to step .

At step the mobile banking interface calls a function corresponding to the parsed instruction from step . In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the function is called through connector API with the function implementation provided by plug in . As previously disclosed the function communicates with financial system to perform the requested instruction and at step the mobile banking interface receives a response from the financial system as a result of processing the function. At step the response is provided to the user device and the method ends at step .

Further details regarding the security layer with detail to its interactions with command driven SMS service of channel manager are disclosed in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 183 390 filed Jul. 31 2008 entitled MOBILE BANKING WITH SHORT MESSAGE SERVICE which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Command driven SMS service includes SMS listener module which is configured to receive SMS messages from SMS gateway in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Command driven SMS service additionally includes state and session manager which is configured to maintain a state associated with the user device in accordance with an additional embodiment of the present invention. In accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention command driven SMS service includes SMS command parser coupled to command grammar module for interpreting the instructions sent by user device .

Further details regarding command driven SMS service are disclosed in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 183 390 filed Jul. 31 2008 entitled MOBILE BANKING WITH SHORT MESSAGE SERVICE which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In order to communicate with rich client service smart client is installed on user device in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Because smart client is provided for the specific purpose of communicating with rich client service in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the user experience of smart client can be optimized in order to facilitate interaction with the financial institution.

In order to communicate with WAP service WAP browser is installed on user device in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In order to optimize user experience when interacting through WAP browser WAP service includes a presentation manager module and a device capability manager module in accordance with an additional embodiment of the present invention. Device capability manager module is configured to determine the support of protocol and rendering abilities of the user device and to send appropriate response templates in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Presentation manager module is configured to generate WAP pages to return to the user device in accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention.

 No authentication instruction security level is associated with instructions that do not require a user device or the user of the user device to authenticate with security layer prior to processing of the instruction. Device authentication instruction security level is associated with instructions that require the authentication of the user device itself prior to processing of the instruction. User authentication instruction security level is associated with instructions that require the authentication of the user of the user device prior to processing of the instruction. Re authentication instruction security level is associated with instructions that require the re authentication of the user of the user device prior to processing of the instruction even if the user has previously been authenticated. One skilled in the relevant arts will recognize that additional instruction security levels can be defined and associated with instructions in a similar manner to the aforementioned instruction security levels.

Further details regarding command authentication levels as regarding command driven SMS service are disclosed in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 183 390 filed Jul. 31 2008 entitled MOBILE BANKING WITH SHORT MESSAGE SERVICE which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

User interface and illustrate a user interface used for authenticating a user on a user device using an authentication page as described in step of flowchart in in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Accordingly the authentication page of user interface and is useful for authenticating a user communicating with mobile banking interface using SMS data by sending the user device a URL to the authentication page and or by sending the user device a WAP push message with the authentication page and in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

Additionally user interface and are used in order to authenticate a user on a user device accessing mobile banking interface using WAP data . With reference to network of when user device accesses WAP service using WAP browser the WAP service is configured to direct the user device to the user interface of and for authentication in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. After authentication the user of user device can interact with the WAP service through an additional user interface such as for example the user interface shown in and in accordance with an additional embodiment of the present invention.

Further details regarding the authentication user interface as regarding command driven SMS service are disclosed in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 183 390 filed Jul. 31 2008 entitled MOBILE BANKING WITH SHORT MESSAGE SERVICE which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

One skilled in the relevant arts will recognize that the precise configuration of the user interface can be different from the user interface illustrated in and that the aforementioned user interfaces are provided by way of example and not limitation.

Through the use of DTD a developer of commands can use a definition provided by DTD to define a command such as commands and to interpret an instruction received from a user device at command driven SMS service module of .

Further details regarding the command grammar module as regarding command driven SMS service are disclosed in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 183 390 filed Jul. 31 2008 entitled MOBILE BANKING WITH SHORT MESSAGE SERVICE which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The method begins at step and proceeds to step where the preferred locale of the user of the user device is retrieved during authentication of the user. When authentication of the user is performed the identity of the user is ascertained and information about the user s preferences are obtained from user profile information such as the user profile information of user profile module in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

If the user s preferred locale cannot be determined at step then at step the locale is determined from the instruction received from the user device. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the instruction will be in a particular language and the locale is determined to be the locale associated with the particular language.

If the locale cannot be determined at step then a default locale is used in step . In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the default locale is United States English. The method then ends at step .

Various aspects of the present invention can be implemented by software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. illustrates an example computer system in which the present invention or portions thereof can be implemented as computer readable code. For example the methods illustrated by flowcharts of of and of can be implemented in system . Various embodiments of the invention are described in terms of this example computer system . After reading this description it will become apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art how to implement the invention using other computer systems and or computer architectures.

Computer system includes one or more processors such as processor . Processor can be a special purpose or a general purpose processor. Processor is connected to a communication infrastructure for example a bus or network .

Computer system also includes a main memory preferably random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory . Secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive a removable storage drive and or a memory stick. Removable storage drive may comprise a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a flash memory or the like.

The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner. Removable storage unit may comprise a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk etc. which is read by and written to by removable storage drive . As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the relevant art s removable storage unit includes a computer usable storage medium having stored therein computer software and or data.

In alternative implementations secondary memory may include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into computer system . Such means may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such means may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an EPROM or PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computer system .

Computer system may also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows software and data to be transferred between computer system and external devices. Communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a PCMCIA slot and card or the like. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path . Communications path carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a phone line a cellular phone link an RF link or other communications channels.

In this document the terms computer program medium and computer usable medium are used to generally refer to media such as removable storage unit removable storage unit and a hard disk installed in hard disk drive . Signals carried over communications path can also embody the logic described herein. Computer program medium and computer usable medium can also refer to memories such as main memory and secondary memory which can be memory semiconductors e.g. DRAMs etc. . These computer program products are means for providing software to computer system .

Computer programs also called computer control logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable computer system to implement the present invention as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable processor to implement the processes of the present invention such as the steps in the methods illustrated by flowcharts of of and of discussed above. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system . Where the invention is implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer program product and loaded into computer system using removable storage drive interface hard drive or communications interface .

The invention is also directed to computer program products comprising software stored on any computer useable medium. Such software when executed in one or more data processing device causes a data processing device s to operate as described herein. Embodiments of the invention employ any computer useable or readable medium known now or in the future. Examples of computer useable mediums include but are not limited to primary storage devices e.g. any type of random access memory secondary storage devices e.g. hard drives floppy disks CD ROMS ZIP disks tapes magnetic storage devices optical storage devices MEMS nanotechnological storage device etc. and communication mediums e.g. wired and wireless communications networks local area networks wide area networks intranets etc. .

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. It will be understood by those skilled in the relevant art s that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. It should be understood that the invention is not limited to these examples. The invention is applicable to any elements operating as described herein. Accordingly the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

