---

title: Predictive geo-temporal advertisement targeting
abstract: A method, system, and medium are provided for targeting advertisements to users of mobile devices based on geo-temporal models. Time-stamped location information is collected for a mobile device and a dynamic geo-temporal model is constructed and updated when new data is collected according to a sample design. Using the geo-temporal model, device location and instances of user interaction with the device can be predicted, and advertisements can be provided based on the predicted location. Advertisements can be cached on the mobile device for later presentation, and the sample design can be updated to improve efficiency and accuracy in the modeling system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08060406&OS=08060406&RS=08060406
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08060406
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080926
---
Mobile communications devices and mobile media devices are quickly becoming popular among consumers worldwide. As the popularity of mobile devices increases do does the potential for targeting advertising content to users based on information that can be learned about a user s mobile device. For instance information about the location of a mobile device can often be obtained and advertising content that is contextually relevant to that location can be targeted to a user of the mobile device.

Embodiments of the invention are defined by the claims below not this summary. A high level overview of embodiments of the invention are provided here for that reason to provide an overview of the disclosure.

In a first illustrative aspect a set of computer useable instructions provides a method of targeting advertising content to a user of a mobile device based on predicted device location. In an embodiment the method includes collecting time stamped device location data associated with the mobile device. The data can be collected according to a dynamically updateable sample design. An embodiment of the method includes updating a dynamic geo temporal model that represents geo temporal data associated with the device. Using the geo temporal model a device location can be predicted for a specified time period and advertisements can be selected based on the predicted location. Selected advertisements are provided to the mobile device and can be configured to be presented to the user during the specified time period. In further embodiments of the present invention the sample design and geo temporal model can by dynamically updated to result in more accurate modeling and predicting while minimizing processing burdens and network bandwidth usage.

In a second aspect a set of computer useable instructions provides a method of targeting advertising content to a user of a mobile device based on predicted device location and predicted user interaction with the device during a specified time period. Using a geo temporal model instances of user interaction can be predicted for a specified time period. The location of the mobile device can also be predicted for the specified time period. Based on the prediction advertisements can be selected and provided to the mobile device. In embodiments of the present invention advertisements can be cached on the mobile device for future presentation to a user.

Further embodiments of the present invention include providing a script or other executable software module to the mobile device for rendering the advertisement during a specified time. Other embodiments include updating the sample scheme periodically and updating the geo temporal model periodically. Still further embodiments of the present invention include maintaining collected time stamped device location data for a certain amount of time then discarding old data to make room for new data. Decisions to discard data can be based upon efficiency and accuracy associated with the sample design and geo temporal modeling aspects of the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for targeting advertisements to users of mobile communications devices or mobile media devices based on predicted device locations for specified time periods. When targeting advertising content to users of mobile devices understanding where a customer spends most of their time or where the customer is likely to be at a particular time can enable more relevant targeting of advertising content and thus a higher probability of realizing value from the advertising. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention provide for predicting locations of a user at particular times and targeting advertising content to the user based on the predicted locations. Information about the locations of a mobile device at different times and on different days is collected over some period of time. The number of times that device location information is connected and the time periods during which it is collected can be specified by a dynamically updateable sample design. The sample design which can be modified to enhance the usefulness of collected information can be referenced to determine exactly when information should be collected. As device location information is collected the information can be analyzed to create a mathematical model of device location information at different times that can be used to predict locations of the mobile device during specified time periods. That mathematical model is referred to herein as a geo temporal model which reflects the fact that the model includes information about device location geo at particular times temporal .

Embodiments of the present invention include the collection of other types of data as well such as for example information about when a user interacts with a mobile device how long a user spends interacting with a mobile device whether there is any available storage space on the mobile device and the like. This and other information can be incorporated into the mathematical model to improve the predictive capability of the model as well as to provide additional context for consideration when selecting advertising content to provide to a user. As information is collected over time the mathematical model may be dynamically updated to maintain and perhaps increase the accuracy of the model. Additionally embodiments of the invention include mechanisms for dynamically updating the sample design. As information is collected over time the sample design can be evaluated to determine if it based on the collected information and robustness of the geo temporal model can be improved to provide a more useful sample of information. By enabling dynamic updating of sample designs for collecting geo temporal data as well as dynamic updating of geo temporal models used for generating predictions embodiments of the present invention facilitate the efficient and accurate targeting of advertisements to users of mobile communications devices.

Throughout the description of the present invention several acronyms and shorthand notations are used to aid the understanding of certain concepts pertaining to the associated system and services. These acronyms and shorthand notations are intended to help provide an easy methodology of communicating the ideas expressed herein and are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention.

The invention may be described in the general context of computer code or machine useable instructions including computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer or other machine such as a personal data assistant or other handheld device. Generally program modules including routines programs objects components data structures etc. refer to code that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may be practiced in a variety of system configurations including hand held devices consumer electronics general purpose computers more specialty computing devices and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network.

Computer readable media include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and nonremovable media and contemplates media readable by a database a switch and various other network devices. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise media implemented in any method or technology for storing information. Examples of stored information include computer useable instructions data structures program modules and other data representations. Media examples include but are not limited to information delivery media RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile discs DVD holographic media or other optical disc storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage and other magnetic storage devices. These technologies can store data momentarily temporarily or permanently.

An exemplary operating environment in which various aspects of the present invention may be implemented is described below in order to provide a general context for various aspects of the present invention. Referring initially to in particular an exemplary operating environment for implementing embodiments of the present invention is shown and designated generally as computing device . Computing device is but one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Neither should the computing device be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated.

Computing device includes a bus that directly or indirectly couples the following devices memory one or more processors one or more presentation components input output ports input output components and an illustrative power supply . Bus represents what may be one or more busses such as an address bus data bus or combination thereof . Although the various blocks of are shown with lines for the sake of clarity in reality delineating various components is not so clear and metaphorically the lines would more accurately be gray and fuzzy. For example one may consider a presentation component such as a display device to be an I O component. Also processors have memory. We recognize that such is the nature of the art and reiterate that the diagram of is merely illustrative of an exemplary computing device that can be used in connection with one or more embodiments of the present invention. Distinction is not made between such categories as workstation server laptop hand held device etc. as all are contemplated within the scope of and reference to computing device. 

Memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory. The memory may be removable nonremovable or a combination thereof. Exemplary hardware devices include solid state memory hard drives optical disc drives etc. Computing device includes one or more processors that read data from various entities such as memory or I O components . Presentation component s present data indications to a user or other device. Exemplary presentation components include a display device speaker printing component etc.

I ports allow computing device to be logically coupled to other devices including I O components some of which may be built in. Illustrative components include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner printer wireless device keyboard pen voice input device touch input device touch screen device interactive display device or a mouse.

Turning to an exemplary network environment for implementing embodiments of the present invention is shown. Network environment includes an advertising ad network a content provider and a mobile network one or more of which can facilitate targeting of advertisements to a number of mobile devices . Mobile devices communicate with ad network and content provider via mobile network LAN and or network . Networks and can include any kind of suitable network such as for example a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet a cellular network a peer to peer network or a combination of networks. Network environment is merely an example of one suitable network environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the present invention. Neither should network environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement related to any single component or combination of components illustrated therein.

Mobile device can be any kind of mobile device capable of presenting content to a user and can include for example mobile devices that communicate regularly with mobile network or some other network or as well as devices that communicate periodically with a network or . In an embodiment mobile device can be a computing device such as for example computing device described above with reference to . According to embodiments of the present invention mobile device can include any number of types of mobile devices such as for example a cellular phone a personal digital assistant PDA smartphone laptop computer handheld computing device and the like. Additionally in embodiments mobile device includes a cache for storing information or other content.

In an embodiment mobile device is a media content presentation device that can communicate with network and or and or content provider such as to download media content. Exemplary media content presentation devices include but are not limited to ZUNE music devices available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. portable video games and game systems and the like. In another embodiment mobile device can be a removeable memory device such as for example a removable memory unit for an XBOX available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash.

Content provider can include a server or other computing device that can communicate content to other devices such as for example mobile device . In other embodiments content provider includes a network. Content can include for example documents files search results applications music videos scripts streaming multimedia and the like. In an embodiment content provider can provide content to a mobile device by way of mobile network network or directly. In some embodiments content provider can be part of ad network mobile network or LAN . In other embodiments content provider is independent of other elements illustrated in and described above.

Computing device can be any kind of computing device that is capable of communicating with a network or and or content provider according to various embodiments of the present invention. In one embodiment for example computing device is a computing device like computing device illustrated in . Computing device can be for example a personal computer PC a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer a PDA a smartphone a terminal and the like.

In one embodiment for example computing device is a PC that a user has at home or at work. The user can connect mobile device to computing device such that they can communicate with each other. Computing device can include software hardware firmware and the like that can be used for communicating with mobile device . For example in one embodiment mobile device is a portable media player such as for example a ZUNE device or an MP3 player. The user can connect mobile device to computing device and use an application to upload media content such as music videos and the like from computing device to mobile device . Computing device can in some embodiments utilize an application programming interface API or an application to communicate with mobile device and update files folders playlists and the like that reside on mobile device . In other embodiments computing device can facilitate communication between mobile device and network or or content provider . In that way mobile device can retrieve content updates media content and advertisements from a content provider or other entity associated with a network or .

In another embodiment computing device is a video game system such as for example an XBOX available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Mobile device can be a memory device that stores user profiles game data media content or other content and that a user can connect to any one of a number of computing devices such as other video game systems computers media players and the like. In a further embodiment computing device can be a kiosk a public network access terminal a media management system such as may be available on a TV in a hotel room or other device that can communicate with mobile device . According to embodiments of the present invention computing device can communicate with one or more of the other elements illustrated in . For example in an embodiment computing device can communicate with ad network and or content provider either directly or indirectly through a LAN . In another embodiment computing device can communicate with ad network content provider mobile devices via mobile network or other network nodes not illustrated.

According to an embodiment of the invention data can be obtained from mobile device that provides information about the current location of mobile device . It should be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that location information about a mobile device can be obtained in a number of different ways. For example a component of mobile network e.g. a location server a presence server a router etc. can determine a location associated with a mobile device that communicates through mobile network . In some embodiments location information is retrieved via GPS technology. In other embodiments triangulation techniques using multiple cell towers can be used to determine device location information. In further embodiments satellite locating techniques can be utilized to determine location information associated with mobile device . Mobile network can provide device location information to entities outside of mobile network such as for example ad network network LAN computing device content provider or mobile devices .

In an embodiment mobile device includes technology for determining its location or ascertaining information associated with its location. Mobile device can then communicate that information to another entity or another entity can retrieve that data from mobile device . In a further embodiment when a mobile device communicates with another device mobile device is associated with identifying information such as addressing information presence information and the like. For example in one embodiment mobile device can become associated with an internet protocol IP address a MAC address a network port or any number of other types of addressing or locating information. IP addresses MAC addresses and others can be analyzed to ascertain information about the location of mobile device . In some embodiments mobile device can utilize an address associated with a computing device an ISP a LAN and the like. Communications can be monitored to detect record and analyze addressing information presence information and other types of information relevant to location information of mobile device .

With continued reference to ad network includes ad source ad server and geo temporal ad server . In an embodiment of the present invention ad network includes components servers modules or other technology that facilitates the delivery and or presentation of advertisements to various destinations such as for example mobile devices computing device and content provider . Ad network is merely an example of one suitable advertising network environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the present invention. Neither should ad network be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement related to any single component or combination of components illustrated therein.

Ad source ad server and geo temporal targeting server can be implemented on any number of types of computing devices. In one embodiment for example ad source ad server and geo temporal targeting server can be implemented on a computing device such as computing device illustrated in . In an embodiment ad source ad server and geo temporal targeting server are each implemented on a separate machine. In other embodiments ad source ad server and geo temporal targeting server are implemented on a single machine or a distributed processing system using several interconnected machines. In a further embodiment combinations of the components and can be implemented on any number of machines and according to any number of various combinations.

The components of ad network are also scalable. That is in embodiments of the present invention there can be varying numbers of components. For instance in one embodiment ad network includes one of each of ad source ad server and geo temporal targeting server . In another embodiment ad network can include only one or two of the components and . In a further embodiment ad source ad server and or geo temporal targeting server can be maintained outside of ad network . Any number of configurations that provide geo temporal targeting capabilities as described below can be suitable for implementing embodiments of the present invention.

Ad source provides advertisements for presentation to users of mobile devices . In an embodiment ad source is a content server that has associated storage for storing advertisements and can also include links to advertisements information about advertisements metadata device location data user profile information and the like. In an embodiment ad source can be a server computing device or software module that can provide advertisements or links to advertisements to a mobile device . In embodiments ad source might be a computing device associated with a company that produces advertisements. In another embodiment ad source can be a server that can collect maintain and manage numbers of advertisements that are associated with and received from various originating entities. It should be appreciated that ad source can be designed to operate within various business models purchasing schemes and the like.

In an embodiment ad source includes storage . In one embodiment storage can support an advertisement ad database . In other embodiments advertisement database can be associated with ad server geo temporal targeting server or another component of ad network not illustrated in . Ad database can be maintained on a single device or can be distributed across several devices such as for instance in an implementation in which ad database is a database cluster. Ad database can be structured according to a variety of techniques and is configured to be searchable. For example in one embodiment ad database includes a table. In another embodiment ad database is a relational database that includes advertisement identifiers that identify advertisements stored in storage as well as data associated with various attributes corresponding to the advertisement identifiers. Advertisement identifiers can include dynamically generated identification codes hyperlinks URLs or other addressing or identifying information. In one embodiment an attribute or attributes can represent information that indicates a geographical region wherein the advertisement corresponding to the associated advertisement identifier should be presented.

For instance in an embodiment an advertisement provider such as ad source can specify particular geographical regions in which an ad should be presented to a user. That way for example a local sandwich shop can specify that an advertisement related thereto is presented to users when the users are within a certain distance from the shop. In another embodiment the shop might specify that the advertisement should be played to users in the same town to users on the same city block and the like.

According to another embodiment ad database can include scripts APIs or other software modules that facilitate presentation of advertisements to users of mobile devices . For instance in an embodiment advertisements can be cached on a mobile device for later presentation. The advertisement can include a tag or other indication to prompt mobile device to present the advertisement at a particular time or upon the occurrence of a particular event. In an embodiment an advertisement can be configured to be presented when a user interacts with a mobile device in a particular geographical region.

According to one embodiment a script can be cached on mobile device such that upon the satisfaction of a specified condition the script can access the cached advertisement and cause it to be presented to the user. Specified conditions can include for example the occurrence of a specified time period a user interaction with mobile device and the like. In another embodiment the script can access or cause mobile device to access the advertisement from a remote location such as for example ad source ad server or geo temporal targeting server . According to another embodiment an API can be cached on the mobile device or maintained on an ad network component such that upon satisfaction of a specified condition the API can be invoked to facilitate presentation of the advertisement.

Ad database also may be configured to store information associated with various types of advertisements. In various embodiments such information may include without limitation one or more unapparent advertisements one or more image advertisements one or more virus cleaning warning advertisements one or more user feedback advertisements advertiser and or publisher identities and the like. In some embodiments ad database is configured to be searchable for one or more advertisements to be selected for presentation as more fully described below.

It will be understood and appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the information stored in ad database may be configurable and may include any information relevant to an advertisement. Further though illustrated as a single independent component ad database may in fact be a plurality of databases for instance a database cluster portions of which may reside on a computing device associated with the ad source or the ad server the geo temporal ad server mobile device another external computing device not shown and or any combination thereof.

With continued reference to ad network includes an ad server . As indicated above in some embodiments ad server can be implemented on the same machine as ad source and or geo temporal targeting server . In other embodiments ad server can be implemented independently of other components of ad network . Ad server can be any type of server software module computing device or the like that is capable of communicating with other devices. Ad server provides advertisements or links to advertisements to other devices such as mobile devices content provider computing device and others. In some embodiments advertisements include hyperlinks or other types of references that allow a user to access web sites information databases and the like. Ad server can facilitate user interaction with those advertisements by resolving references mapping hyperlinks to addresses retrieving websites searching content and rendering content. In some embodiments ad server can also provide click through services for reporting user interaction with content.

Ad server can include storage . Storage can include for example an ad database a cache for temporarily storing advertisements and other content before providing the advertisements and or other content to users and the like. Additionally in some embodiments ad server is integrated with ad source . In other embodiments ad server is integrated with geo temporal targeting server . According to another embodiment ad server can be configured to receive geo temporal targeting information from geo temporal targeting server and use that information to select appropriate advertisements. In an embodiment ad server generates a searchable index of the advertisements and related data stored in ad database which may be implemented on ad source ad server or geo temporal targeting server .

The index and or ad database can include a weighting scheme for facilitating determinations of which advertisements to provide in various situations. For example the advertisements can be ranked or weighted. In an embodiment information contained in the index can include annotations or attributes associated with an advertisement that indicate situations in which the advertisement should be provided. In another embodiment ad database can include similar annotations or attributes. For instance a particular product or company may have several advertisements associated therewith and a limited number of those advertisements may be ranked higher than the others. Accordingly in an appropriate situation the higher ranked advertisements can be selected first and if there is available bandwidth memory time or the like additional advertisements can be provided according to an order indicated by the annotations or attributes. Ad server can query the index using geo temporal targeting information in the query definition to select appropriate advertisements to present to users at particular times and in specified geographic locations.

In some embodiments advertisements can be selected by another component of ad network . In various embodiments ad server retrieves selected advertisements or information associated therewith from any number of sources such as for example ad database ad source content provider and the like. Ad server communicates the advertisements or associated information to various devices such as mobile devices . Accordingly a user can be presented with the advertisements by rendering the content provided by ad server by selecting a hyperlink to content or any other means of accessing advertising material provided by ad server .

Geo temporal targeting server includes a mobile predictive targeting engine MPTE and data storage . In one embodiment data storage includes a historic user behavior database. Data storage may be configured to store information associated with a plurality of system users and their associated user behaviors as more fully discussed below. In various embodiments such information may include without limitation one or more user identities one or more probabilities related to a user one or more scores assigned to a user mobile devices associated with a user time stamped location information and the like. In some embodiments data storage is configured to be searchable for one or more user identities based upon for instance an IP address or the like and associated information as more fully described below.

It will be understood and appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the information stored in data storage may be configurable and may include any information relevant to a user and their associated user behavior. Further though illustrated as a single independent component data storage may in fact be a plurality of databases for instance a database cluster portions of which may reside on a computing device associated with ad source ad server geo temporal ad server content provider mobile network computing device mobile devices another external computing device not shown and or any combination thereof.

According to an embodiment of the present invention MPTE gathers time stamped location information associated with mobile devices . The information can include for example a description of a geographic area a time of day an indication of the day of the week time since the last data was collected for the device duration of connection or user interaction with the device and the like. MPTE includes a database that can be used to store time stamped location information associated with mobile devices . In an embodiment database can include a table a relational database or any other database structuring scheme that allows for a searchable warehouse of time stamped location data.

In embodiments database can include a number of unique mobile device identifiers MDIDs each of which corresponds to a particular mobile device . Information gathered by MPTE can be associated with the MDID that corresponds to the mobile device with which the information is associated. Database can also include information indicating the type of device for mobile device amounts of storage space available in a cache on mobile device and other user behavior data that can be used for advertisement targeting such as for example a user profile or a device profile that includes demographic information user preference information device configuration and capability information presence information and the like.

Information accumulated and maintained in database can be updated periodically. In one embodiment time stamped device location information associated with a mobile device can be maintained in database for any desired amount of time. In an embodiment the information is maintained for a period of several days or weeks after which the information is discarded. In this manner database can be configured to maintain an adequate amount of available storage space and can also be configured to maintain only enough data to create and or update a user or device profile. According to various embodiments a user or device profile referred to generically herein as a profile can include any of the types of information maintained by database . Additionally a profile can contain a mathematical model representing variables such as for example device location information user behavior information e.g. information about user interactions with mobile device and any other type of information that can be relevant to advertisement targeting. According to an embodiment the information maintained in database and updated by MPTE can be used to predict future device location information user interaction and the like.

With continued reference to this exemplary network architecture is but one example of a suitable network environment that may be implemented to carry out aspects of the present invention and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Neither should the illustrated exemplary network architecture or the MPTE be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of the components or as illustrated. In some embodiments one or more of the components or may be implemented as stand alone devices wireless networks and the like. In other embodiments one or more of the components or may be integrated directly into a mobile device . It will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the components or illustrated in are exemplary in nature and in number and should not be construed as limiting.

Accordingly any number of components may be employed to achieve the desired functionality within the scope of embodiments of the present invention. Although the various components of are shown with lines for the sake of clarity in reality delineating various components is not so clear and metaphorically the lines would more accurately be grey or fuzzy. Further although some components of are depicted as single blocks the depictions are exemplary in nature and in number and are not to be construed as limiting.

Turning now to a block diagram of an exemplary system implementation of an embodiment of the present invention is illustrated. System implementation is merely an example of one suitable network environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the present invention. Neither should system implementation be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement related to any single component or combination of components illustrated therein.

Illustrative system implementation includes a mobile device a third party source a mobile predictive targeting engine MPTE and an ad network . Mobile device includes a cache . As indicated above cache can be used according to embodiments of the invention to store advertisements or information associated with advertisements. In an embodiment the stored advertisements can be presented to a user of mobile device at a later time. Additionally mobile device can be configured to ascertain the amount of space available for storage in the cache. The amount of space available can be communicated to other elements of exemplary system such as for example MPTE third party source and or ad network . In another embodiment an external device can ascertain the amount of available space on the cache. For instance MPTE may be configured to ascertain and or retrieve cache availability from mobile device .

According to one embodiment as illustrated in ad network includes an ad serving component an ad selection component and an ad store . It should be understood that each of these components and or can be implemented on a single machine on multiple machines or in a distributed computing environment.

MPTE includes a sampling component a modeling component a prediction component an updating component a data store a sample design store and a geo temporal model store . In some embodiments one or more of the components and may be implemented as stand alone applications. In other embodiments one or more of the components and may be integrated directly into the operating system of the geo temporal ad server ad server ad source content provider or mobile device of . By way of example only the MPTE may be housed in association with the advertisement database of . In the instance of multiple servers the present invention contemplates providing a load balancer to federate incoming queries to the servers. It will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the components and illustrated in are exemplary in nature and in number and should not be construed as limiting. Any number of components or modules may be employed to achieve the desired functionality within the scope of embodiments of the present invention.

Sampling component can be configured to facilitate collection of information associated with mobile device . In an embodiment sampling component collects information according to a dynamically updateable sample design that is maintained in sample design store . There can be a unique sample design associated with each mobile device . Additionally sample design store can include aggregate sample designs that are associated with more than one mobile device . Sample designs can include lists tables sampling distributions formula algorithms and the like.

Sample designs can also be dynamically updateable. As illustrated in modeling component includes a sample design engine . Sample design engine creates updates replaces and otherwise manages sample designs according to which sampling component collects data associated with various mobile devices . Sample design engine communicates with sample design store . In another embodiment sample design store can be integrated with sample design engine . In these and other embodiments sample design engine can create a new sample design associated with a mobile device and store the design in sample design store . Sample design engine can update the designs in sample design store .

According to an embodiment of the present invention sample design engine can update sample designs by replacing a sample design with an updated version. In another embodiment sample design engine can retrieve or otherwise access a sample design and modify the design. In the latter embodiment processing power associated with sample design engine can be minimized. In the former embodiment the sample design engine can utilize templates that facilitate rapid and structured modifications of a sample design.

Sample design engine can update sample designs periodically or continuously. Updates can be user defined in some embodiments. Additionally updates can be automatically generated by sample design engine . In one embodiment sample design engine receives an indication from updating component that a sample design should be updated. For instance updating component can receive information associated with other processes within MPTE . In an embodiment updating component takes as input a geo temporal model that is maintained in geo temporal model store and that can be created updated and otherwise managed by data modeling engine . Updating component can also take as input predictions identified by a prediction component and data associated with the accuracies of predictions. In an embodiment data associated with the accuracy of a prediction can be obtained from sampling component . In an embodiment updating component can generate a statistical model using for example Bayesian networks neural networks probability distribution functions and the like. The statistical model can be used to estimate probabilities associated with obtaining accurate predictions from the geo temporal model given the data collected according to the current sample design. Based on an assessment of the resulting probabilities updating component can determine that a new sample design is warranted.

In other embodiments updating component can generate simpler models for determining when to update sample designs. For example prediction component may predict based on a geo temporal model that a User A will be interacting with mobile device during a specified time period such as for example between 3 00 p.m. and 4 30 p.m. on Sep. 26 2008. During the specified time period sampling component can attempt to determine whether the user interacts with mobile device . If the user interacts with mobile device during the specified time period updating component may determine that refinement or modification of the corresponding geo temporal model is not necessary. On the other hand if the user does not interact with mobile device during the specified time updating component may determine that either the sample design or the geo temporal model should be updated to improve accuracy of predictions. Additionally in some embodiments both the sample design and geo temporal model can be updated.

As illustrated in the mobile network can be a third party content source . As explained above third party content source can include an interaction data source that provides information associated with user interaction with mobile device and location data source that provides information associated with the location of mobile device at various times. In some embodiments mobile device can be a mobile media presentation device such as a portable video game system a portable music player or the like. A user may connect mobile device to a computing device or to a remote entity via a network from time to time such as to retrieve updates content and the like. In this case third party source can include a computing device to which mobile device is connected a content provider that communicates with mobile device or any other device machine software module or the like that can collect and report data regarding user interaction and location associated with mobile device . In a further embodiment there may not be a third party source and user interaction data and location data can be retrieved directly from mobile device from addressing information associated with mobile device from monitoring network traffic that includes communications from mobile device and the like.

Sampling component includes a location module a cache module and an interaction module . Location module and interaction module facilitate the acquisition of location information and user interaction information respectively. In an embodiment location module can interface with location data source to retrieve location information and interaction module can interface with interaction data source to retrieve user interaction information. In another embodiment sampling component receives information through a more generalized communication port and location module and interaction module facilitate the identification isolation and aggregation of location information and user interaction information respectively. In embodiments information collected by sampling component can be maintained in data store . In some embodiments information associated with a particular mobile device is maintained in data store for a period of time e.g. several days several weeks etc. . Updating component can determine whether all of the stored data associated with a mobile device is necessary to keep for maintaining an accurate geo temporal model. If not data can be discarded from data store allowing for collection of new data that can facilitate further refinement of a geo temporal model.

Cache module can facilitate determining storage space availability associated with cache on mobile device . In an embodiment mobile device includes cache managing components that can ascertain and report the amount of storage space available in cache . In another embodiment cache module can be configured to ascertain the amount of storage available in cache . Information associated with available storage in cache can be communicated directly to data store ad selection component and or any other component or combination of components implemented within exemplary system environment . In this way advertisements can be selected based on information from a geo temporal model as well as availability of storage space in cache . As explained above a set of advertisements can be identified as being appropriate for presentation to a user of mobile device during a specified time period based on information derived from a corresponding geo temporal model other behavioral information user profiles user preferences the type of device that mobile device is and the like. If there is enough storage space available in cache to accommodate a first subset of higher ranked advertisements those can be selected for presentation. Additionally if there still remains additional space in cache a second subset of advertisements can be selected for presentation and so on.

Referring to MPTE also includes a modeling component . Modeling component as indicated above includes a sample design engine and a data modeling engine . Sample design engine generates updates and otherwise manages sample designs that correspond to mobile devices . Data modeling engine generates updates and otherwise manages geo temporal models that correspond to mobile devices . Data modeling engine also can organize sort classify and otherwise analyze data such as for example time stamped device location data. Data modeling engine can utilize any number of model types to model geo temporal information associated with mobile device . For example data modeling engine can be used to estimate probability density functions associated with distributions of data collected by sampling component . In another embodiment data modeling engine can perform regression analysis ANOVA analysis and or any number of other techniques that can be used to model geo temporal data associated with a mobile device . In some embodiments data modeling engine can use different techniques for different mobile devices depending upon patterns of behavior associated with the mobile devices . Additionally data modeling engine can utilize weighted graph techniques Bayesian networks neural networks machine learning multivariate regression analysis and other techniques for modeling data associated with mobile device .

Updating component can in turn apply various types of tests models and the like to determine a measure of the accuracy of a geo temporal model associated with a mobile device and if necessary can work with data modeling engine to update the geo temporal model. Similarly updating component can determine efficiency and accuracy attributes associated with a sample design that corresponds to a mobile device . If necessary updating component can work with sample design engine to update the sample design. Further updating component in some embodiments can use information from sample design engine sample design store data modeling engine and or geo temporal model store for determining whether either a sample design or a geo temporal model should be refined. It should be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that some situations could warrant simultaneous refinement of both a sample design and a geo temporal model.

Prediction component can use a geo temporal model maintained in geo temporal model store for predicting geographic locations in which a mobile device will be located at specified time periods. Additionally prediction component can be used to predict instances of user interaction with mobile device at specified time and or in specified geographic locations. In some embodiments prediction component can generate a prediction by providing specified input to a geo temporal model such as a regression formula a probability density function or the like and calculating a probabilistic prediction of future behavior using the model. In another embodiment prediction component can identify confidence levels associated with various specified time periods and corresponding potential geographic or user interaction data. A confidence level can be represented for example by an index or attribute that provides information regarding how well the user meets a set of criteria established by an advertisement provider. Prediction component can compare the confidence levels or indices against a predetermined confidence level threshold or predetermined index threshold to determine which location information predictions and user interaction predictions are likely to be most accurate. In an embodiment the predetermined threshold is selected such that advertising expenditures are maximized with respect to user exposure to the advertisements. For example in one embodiment advertisements will be selected for presentation in a predicted location if the corresponding confidence level is above 80 where 80 is the confidence level threshold. In another embodiment advertisements are selected for presentation in a predicted location if the corresponding index is greater than a threshold index. In other embodiments such as for example where advertisements are more expensive to present a higher confidence level threshold such as 90 could be utilized.

For example prediction component might utilize a geo temporal model associated with a mobile device to determine that on Sep. 26 2008 in the afternoon there is a 30 confidence level associated with a prediction that mobile device will be in location during that specified time period and a 90 confidence level that mobile device will be in location during that specified time period. Accordingly prediction component can provide data associated with the prediction regarding location to an ad selection component which in turn can select advertisements appropriate for presentation at location .

With further reference to the exemplary system implementation includes an ad network . Ad network includes an ad serving component an ad selection component and an ad store . In various embodiments any one or more of ad serving component ad selection component and ad store can be implemented on a single machine. In other embodiments each component and can be implemented independently of the others. In one embodiment for example ad serving component ad selection component and or ad store can be maintained on ad server illustrated in . In another embodiment for example ad serving component is implemented on ad server ad store is implemented on ad source and ad selection component is implemented on geo temporal targeting server . Any combination of components and can be implemented in some embodiments on any combination of ad source ad server and geo temporal targeting server . In a further embodiment any combination of the components and can be implemented in connection with or integrated with an implementation of MPTE . These are only a few illustrative embodiments and a number of other implementation schemes that can be used to provide the functionality of the present invention as described herein are within the ambit of the present invention.

Ad serving component facilitates the presentation of advertisements to users of mobile device . In an embodiment ad serving component provides advertisements to mobile device . Advertisements can include actual advertising content information about advertising content hyperlinks to advertisements references to advertisements coupons and the like. Additionally according to embodiments of the present invention advertisements can include scripts software modules and APIs that can be invoked to render advertising content on a display of mobile device . Advertisements can be of any number of different formats such as audio video textual graphical and the like. In some embodiments advertisements can be interactive and in other embodiments advertisements are accompanied by click through functionality so that user interaction with the advertisements can be monitored and logged. In some embodiments ad serving component resolves references maps connections through hyperlinks retrieves advertising content streams content to mobile device monitors click throughs and the like. In other embodiments any one or more of those functions can be performed by other components of the system implementation .

According to an embodiment of the present invention ad selection component receives information from prediction component that indicates locations times and or other information relevant to targeting advertisement to a user. Based on the information received ad selection component can search ad store such as by querying an index associated therewith and retrieve advertisements that are appropriate for presentation to the user at the specified and or predicted times locations and the like. In another embodiment ad selection component can also receive information from sampling component that can be utilized in selecting advertisements. For example prediction component may provide a predicted location of mobile device corresponding to a specified time period and sampling component can provide information regarding available storage space in cache on mobile device . Using all of this information ad selection component can select advertisements for presentation to a user of mobile device in such a way as to maximize the probability of user exposure to the advertisements while minimizing processing burdens network communications and the like.

Ad store can be used to store advertisements and information associated with advertisements. Ad store can include one or more advertisement databases such as ad database described above with reference to . Ad store can include indexes associated with advertisement databases and can also include information associated with advertisements mappings between hyperlinks and content and other types of content. In some embodiments ad store can be used to store scripts APIs and the like.

Turning now to a schematic diagram is shown that illustrates an exemplary geo temporal targeted advertising process according to embodiments of the present invention. illustrates a first location a second location a third location and a fourth location . also depicts a mobile device and two servers and . Exemplary process is merely an example of one suitable process implementation and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the present invention. Neither should exemplary process be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement related to any single component or combination of components illustrated therein.

Locations and can be any type of location and can be designated and identified in any manner suitable for modeling geo temporal behaviors associated with mobile device . For example in an embodiment locations and can be geographic locations and can be designated in a number of ways such as by a series of coordinates that include latitude and longitude by town city county state country and the like. According to one embodiment of the present invention entities with whom advertisements are associated can provide data that indicates the locations at which particular advertisements should be presented. Because different entities may use varying designation schemes for designating locations the data provided can be normalized into a standard input scheme that enables more efficient processing throughout the various methods as described herein.

In an embodiment for example locations and can be cells in a cellular network. In another embodiment locations and can be designated by addressing information e.g. an IP address associated with a host computing device or with mobile device . In other embodiments locations and can be regions designated by mathematical functions and as such can include other attributes that may be useful in targeting advertisements.

As illustrated in mobile device is shown at a first location . While at the first location a user may interact with mobile device . In response to detecting user interaction with mobile device device location information can be collected such as for example by server . In other embodiments device location information can be independently monitored by a network component and then provided to server or . In further embodiments a client on mobile device can be configured to push device location information to servers and .

As indicated at mobile device moves from the first location to the second location . Time stamped device location data can be collected again depending on the sample design when mobile device is in the second location . As illustrated at mobile device travels to the third location . It should be understood that any amount of time may pass between the time mobile device enters a location and the time that mobile device exits the location. Data associated with the length of time mobile device remains in a location can be collected. Similarly data regarding the duration of user interaction with mobile device can be collected.

As illustrated at during some specified period of time while mobile device is in the third location server communicates with mobile device to determine the amount of storage available on a cache associated with mobile device . In embodiments server may also obtain other types of information such as for example whether a user is interacting with the mobile device . Based on information collected server can select an advertisement and communicate that selection to server as shown at . Further as illustrated at the selected advertisement is provided to mobile device by server . According to an embodiment for example advertisement can be cached on mobile device along with an indication script module API or the like that facilitates the presentation of advertisement at a specified time and location. Additionally advertisement can be configured to be presented upon the satisfaction of a specified condition.

As further illustrated at in mobile device travels from the third location to the fourth location . While mobile device is in the fourth location the advertisement can be presented to the user. In some embodiments components of either or both of servers and can collect time stamped location data and use the data to generate geo temporal models that can be used to predict future locations and instances of user interaction associated with mobile device .

To recapitulate we have described systems and methods for targeting advertising content to a user of a mobile device based on predicted device location by generating geo temporal models using data collected according to a dynamically updateable sample design. Turning to a flow diagram is provided showing an illustrative method of targeting advertising content to a user of a mobile device based on predicted device location. At a first illustrative step step a dynamically updateable sample design that is associated with a mobile device is referenced. The sample design can be used for identifying sampling time periods during which to collect device location information associated with the mobile device. In embodiments referencing the dynamically updateable sample design can include retrieving the sample design receiving input values derived from the sample design calculating input values using the sample design and the like.

At a second step instances of user interaction with the mobile device are detected during sampling periods that were identified using the sample design. User interaction with the device can include for example the user powering on the device the user making a phone call using the device the user causing the device to communicate with a content provider and the like. At step a location of the device is determined during each instance of user interaction with the device. As explained above a device location can include a designation of a geographic area a city a county a state a country or the like. Additionally a device location can be identified and designated in terms of an IP address of a computing device to which the mobile device is connected.

At step time stamped data that indicates device location for each instance of user interaction is recorded. The time stamped location data can be stored in a searchable database. Additionally the recorded data can be maintained for a particular amount of time. The system can be configured to asses the usefulness of older data and can determine appropriate times for discarding collected data thereby making room for newly collected data. As shown at step of the collected time stamped device location data is used to update a geo temporal model that represents device location and user interaction with respect to time periods.

With continued reference to a first period of time is specified as illustrated at step . At step a device location is predicted for the first period of time and at step user interaction is predicted for the first period of time. The predictions are made by referencing the geo temporal model corresponding to the device. In embodiments the geo temporal model can include model produced by regression analysis or other similar time series forecasting technique. In those instances locations and user interaction can be predicted by calculating expectation values using the specified first time period as input to the model. In other embodiments other types of statistical and probability distributions and models can be used to create the geo temporal model. In some embodiments the geo temporal model can actually consist of a number of different mathematical and statistical models that can be referenced. In various embodiments predicting device location and user interaction from a geo temporal model can include analysis of confidence levels as illustrated in .

As illustrated at step of an illustrative method further includes selecting an advertisement based on the predictions such that the selected advertisement can be presented to the user during the specified first period of time. At step the selected advertisement is provided to the mobile device. At step a determination is made that the sample design should be updated and at a final illustrative step the sample design is updated. In embodiments of the present invention the sample design can be updated based on various assessments about the efficiency and utility of the sample design. According to embodiments of the present invention sample design updates can include modifications resulting in more frequent data collection less frequent data collection data collection at different times and the like.

Turning now to a flow diagram showing an illustrative method of predicting device location and user interaction information using a geo temporal model for targeting advertising content to a user of a mobile device is illustrated. At an illustrative first step step a first time period is specified. At step a first set of confidence levels associated with predictions of device location during the specified first time period is determined. At step a determination is made whether any of the first set of confidence levels exceeds a first predetermined threshold.

As illustrated in a second set of confidence levels associated with predictions of user interactions with the device during the specified first time period is determined as shown at step . At step a determination is made whether any of the second set of confidence levels exceeds a second predetermined threshold. At a final illustrative step step selected advertising content is provided for presentation to the user during the specified first time period. In embodiments advertising content is selected based on which confidence levels exceed the respective thresholds. For instance in one embodiment some advertisements may be selected based on an at least 80 confidence level associated with a particular prediction of device location and an at least 80 confidence level associated with a corresponding prediction of user interaction with the device. In other embodiments some advertising content may be selected based on the location prediction regardless of the outcome of the user interaction prediction and vice versa. Decisions such as these can be made to accommodate particular business plans bandwidth management directives and the like.

Turning now to a flow diagram showing another illustrative method of targeting advertising content to a user of a mobile device based on predicted device location is illustrated. At step a set of advertising content is selected based on a predicted device location and user interaction for a specified first period of time. At step availability of the mobile device during a second specified period of time is detected. Generally the second specified period of time occurs before the first specified period of time. At step availability of storage space in a cache on the mobile device is determined. In an embodiment the mobile device can report this information and in another embodiment the information can be extracted or provided by other entities.

At step a subset of the set of selected advertising content is selected based on the availability of storage space in the cache on the mobile device. At step an executable script is generated. The executable script is configured to facilitate presentation of the subset of advertising content during the first specified period of time. In this way the subset of advertising content can be provided to the device along with the script as indicated at step before the occurrence of the first specified period of time. The executable script can be configured to cause the advertising content to be displayed upon the occurrence of one or more conditions such as for example the occurrence of the first specified period of time and user interaction with the device. In some embodiment an API is included with the subset of advertising content instead of a script. In other embodiments a tag or other simple instruction or marker that can be recognized by the mobile device can be included such that the mobile device can determine when to present the advertising content to the user.

Many different arrangements of the various components depicted as well as components not shown are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Embodiments of the present invention have been described with the intent to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art that do not depart from its scope. A skilled artisan may develop alternative means of implementing the aforementioned improvements without departing from the scope of the present invention.

It will be understood that certain features and subcombinations are of utility and may be employed without reference to other features and subcombinations and are contemplated within the scope of the claims. Not all steps listed in the various figures need be carried out in the specific order described.

