---

title: Methods and systems for managing network connections in a software provisioning environment
abstract: A provisioning server can manage network connections in the software provisioning environment. The provisioning server can maintain a network record of network configurations for the networks served by the provisioning server. The network record can include information describing the structure, hardware, software, and configuration of the networks served by the provisioning server. The provisioning server can manage and configure existing networks and instantiate new networks or sub-networks associated with the provisioning server. The network configuration module can retrieve the network configurations maintained in the network record to manage, configure, and instantiate existing or new networks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08326972&OS=08326972&RS=08326972
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08326972
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080926
---
Software provisioning is the process of selecting a target machine such as a server loading the appropriate software operating system device drivers middleware and applications and customizing and configuring the system and the software to make it ready for operation. Software provisioning can entail a variety of tasks such as creating or changing a boot image specifying parameters e.g. IP address IP gateway to find associated network and storage resources and then starting the machine and its newly loaded software. Typically a system administrator will perform these tasks using various tools because of the complexity of these tasks. Unfortunately there is a lack of provisioning control tools that can adequately integrate and automate these tasks.

Typically software provisioning takes place in a network environment. Often the target machines will require network configuration in order to properly function once provisioned. Additionally the software provisioning may require set up and configuration of the network itself Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a provisioning environment that can manage network connections in a software provisioning environment.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the present invention are described by referring mainly to exemplary embodiments thereof However one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be implemented in all types of information and systems and that any such variations do not depart from the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Moreover in the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying figures which illustrate specific embodiments. Electrical mechanical logical and structural changes may be made to the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for providing network connection management in a software provisioning environment. More particularly a provisioning server can manage network connections in the software provisioning environment.

In embodiments a provisioning server can be configured to include a network configuration module. The network configuration module can be configured to maintain a network record of network configurations for the networks served by the provisioning server. The network record can include information describing the structure hardware software and configuration of the networks served by the provisioning server. For example the network record can include information such as the types of networks the types of hardware and software supporting the networks DHCP servers DNS servers routers proxy servers and the like configuration for the hardware and software and network parameters for the networks particular type of network network addresses supported by the networks network host identifications network gateway identifications sub network masks and the like 

In embodiments the provisioning server can be configured to manage and configure existing networks and instantiate new networks or sub networks associated with the provisioning server. The network configuration module can be configured to retrieve the network configurations maintained in the network record to manage configure and instantiate existing or new networks. For example the network configuration module can be configured to alter the configuration of existing network structure hardware or software and can be configured to add new sub networks networks network hardware or network software.

By providing network connection management the provisioning server can consolidate network management with software provisioning for diverse networks. As such network maintenance and configuration can be synchronized with any changes to the software and hardware in the network.

In particular the provisioning environment can manage software provisioning using a hierarchy of commands. In exemplary embodiments the hierarchy can include at least four levels of commands. The lowest level in the hierarchy can comprise distribution commands which primarily handle base operating system specific tasks of provisioning. The second level can comprise profile commands which associate a configuration file such as a kickstart file for Linux or other operating system with a distribution and optionally allow for customization. The third level comprises system commands which associate remote systems that are involved with the provisioning of the software. The fourth level comprises repository commands which address configurations and tasks related to updating the software remote installation procedures and optionally customizing the software.

The provisioning environment provides several capabilities and advantages over the known provisioning solutions. For example the present invention is capable of handling a variety of forms of installations such as preboot execution environment PXE virtualization re installations and image installations.

In exemplary aspects the provisioning environment enables integrating virtualization into a PXE provisioning infrastructure and provides several options to reinstall running machines as well. The provisioning environment can integrate mirroring of package repositories with the provisioning process so that a provisioning server may serve as a central mirror point of contract for all of an organization s software needs. In aspects a set of remote mirrored repositories can automatically be used by provisioned systems without additional setup.

Reference will now be made in detail to the exemplary aspects the provisioning environment . The provisioning environment can be applied to provisioning any form of software such as Windows systems UNIX systems and Linux systems. In the exemplary description that follows is presented to explain the provisioning environment for provisioning software such as Linux and Linux based software such as Fedora and Red Hat Enterprise Linux by Red Hat Inc.

In provisioning of software such as Linux many system administrators use what is known as the kickstart installation method. Kickstart files are files that specify the intended configuration of the software being provisioned. Kickstart files can be kept on a server and can be read by individual computers during the installation. This installation method allows the use a single or relatively few standard kickstart files to install Linux on multiple machines making it ideal for network and system administrators.

The kickstart file can be a simple text file containing a list of items each identified by a keyword. In general a kickstart file can be edited with any text editor or word processor that can save files as ASCII text. One skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention may be applied to non kickstart files in software provisioning. For example configuration files such as AutoYAST Answer files used in Novell SuSe Linux and Sun Solaris Jumpstart files may also be used by the provisioning environment .

Typically a kickstart file can be copied to the boot disk or made available on the network. The network based approach is most commonly used as most kickstart installations for software provisioning such as Linux systems tend to be performed via a network using NFS FTP or HTTP on networked computers. Administrators also find it desirable that kickstart installations can be performed using a local CD ROM or a local hard drive.

Using kickstart files a system administrator can create a single file containing the parameters that are needed to complete a typical software installation. For example kickstart files specify parameters related to language selection mouse configuration keyboard selection boot loader installation disk partitioning network configuration NIS LDAP Kerberos Hesiod and Samba authentication firewall configuration and package selection.

According to exemplary aspects illustrated in the provisioning environment can include a provisioning server a code repository which provides access to distributions and a set of installation templates a set of exception plugins a helper client running on target machines in a network a provisioning database which comprises a distribution tree list and template list . Each of these components will now be further described.

The provisioning server from herein referred to as a cobbler is responsible for serving as a extensible markup language remote procedure call XMLRPC handler linking to or mirroring install distribution trees and a configuration database hosting kickstart templates hosting plugins generating installation images and the like. The cobbler server can be implemented as software such as Python code installed on a boot server machine and provides a command line interface for configuration of the boot server. In addition the cobbler server can make itself available as a Python application programming interface API for use by higher level management software not shown . The cobbler server supports provisioning via PXE image ISO installation virtualization re provisioning. As will be described later the last two modes are performed with the assistance of a helper client .

The code repository is responsible for hosting distributions and . The code repository may be implemented using well known components of hardware and software. Additionally the code repository can be include one or more repositories hosting distributions. The distributions and can include bundles of software that is already compiled and configured. The distributions and may be in the form of either rpm deb tgz msi exe formats and the like. For example as Linux distributions the distributions and are bundles of software that comprise the Linux kernel the non kernel parts of the operating system and assorted other software. The distributions and can take a variety of forms from fully featured desktop and server operating systems to minimal environments.

In exemplary aspects the installation templates are any data structure or processing element that can be combined with a set of installation configurations and processed to produce a resulting configuration file such as a kickstart file.

In exemplary aspects exception plugins is software that interacts with cobbler server to customize the provisioning of software. In general the exceptions plugins are intended to address infrequent customization needs.

In exemplary aspects the helper client known as koan which stands for kickstart over a network can assist the cobbler server during the provisioning processes. The koan can allow for both network provisioning of new virtualized guests and destructive provisioning of any existing system. When invoked the koan can request profile information from a remote boot server that has been configured with the cobbler server . In some aspects what the koan does with the profile data depends on whether it was invoked with virt or replace self.

In exemplary aspects the koan can enable replacing running systems as well as installing virtalized profiles. The koan can also be pushed out to systems automatically from the boot server. In some aspects the koan client is also written in Python code to accommodate a variety of operating systems machine architectures etc.

In exemplary aspects the network can include a number of the target machines . The target machines can represent the particular machines to which software provisioning is directed. The target machines may represent a wide variety of computing devices such as personal computers servers laptop computers personal mobile devices and the like. In some aspects the target machines can represent distributed computing environments such as cloud computing environments. Although shows several of the target machines the provisioning environment can be capable of managing a wide range environments such as datacenters with thousands of machines or server pools with just a few machines. Additionally the cobbler server can be connected to multiple networks .

In exemplary aspects the provisioning database can serve as a data storage location for holding data used by the cobbler server . For example as shown the provisioning database can comprise the distribution tree list and the template list . The distribution tree list can provide an inventory of the distributions and that are hosted or mirrored by the cobbler server . The template list can provide an inventory of the templates that are hosted by the cobbler server .

As noted above the cobbler server can manage provisioning using a hierarchical concept of distribution commands profile commands system commands and repository commands. This framework enables the cobbler server to abstract the differences between multiple provisioning types installation reinstallation and virtualization and allows installation of all three from a common platform. This hierarchy of commands also permits the cobbler server to integrate software repositories with the provisioning process thus allowing systems to be configured as a mirror for software updates and third party content as well as distribution content.

Distributions can contain information about base operating system tasks such as what kernel and initial ramdisk initrd are used in the provisioning along with other information such as required kernel parameters. Profiles associate one of the distributions and with a kickstart file and optionally customize it further for example using plugins . Systems commands associate a hostname IP or machine access control MAC with a distribution and optionally customize the profile further. Repositories contain update information such as yum mirror information that the cobbler server uses to mirror repository . The cobbler server can also manage generate dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP configuration files using the templates .

In exemplary aspects the cobbler server can use a provisioning environment that is fully templated allowing for kickstarts and PXE files to be customized by the user. The cobbler server uses the concept of profiles as an intermediate step between the operating system and the installed system. A profile is a description of what a system does rather than the software to be installed. For instance a profile might describe a virtual web server with X amount of RAM Y amounts of disk space running a Linux distribution Z and with an answer file W.

In exemplary aspects the cobbler server can provide a command line interface to configure a boot server in which it is installed. For example the format of the cobbler server commands can be generally in the format of cobbler command subcommand arg arg . Thus a user can specify various aspects of software provisioning via a single interface such as a command line interface or other known interface. Examples of exemplary cobbler commands can be found in U.S. patent. application Ser. No. 11 763 315 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2008 0288938 A1 and U.S patent. application Ser. No. 11 763 333 U.S. Patent Publication No. US 2008 288939 A1 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.

According to exemplary aspects a user can use various commands of the provisioning environment to specify distributions and install trees hosted by the code repository such as a distribution from the distributions or . A user can add or import a distribution or import it from installation media or an external network location.

According to exemplary aspects in order to import a distribution the cobbler server can auto add distributions and profiles from remote sources whether this is an installation media such as a DVD an NFS path or an rsync mirror. When importing a rsync mirror the cobbler server can try to detect the distribution type and automatically assign kickstarts. By default in some embodiments the cobbler server can provision by erasing the hard drive setting up eth for DHCP and using a default password. If this is undesirable an administrator may edit the kickstart files in etc cobbler to do something else or change the kickstart setting after the cobbler server creates the profile.

According to exemplary aspects a user may map profiles to the distributions and map systems to the profiles using profile commands and systems commands of the provisioning environment . A profile associates a distribution to additional specialized options such as a kickstart automation file. In the cobbler server profiles are the unit of provisioning and at least one profile exists for every distribution to be provisioned. A profile might represent for instance a web server or desktop configuration.

According to exemplary aspects a user can map systems to profiles using system commands. Systems commands can assign a piece of hardware with cobbler server to a profile. Systems can be defined by hostname Internet Protocol IP address or machine access control MAC address. When available use of the MAC address to assign systems can be preferred.

According to exemplary aspects the user can map repositories and profiles using repository commands. Repository commands can address configurations and tasks related to updating the software remote installation procedures and optionally customizing the software. These repository commands can also specify mirroring of the provisioned software to remote servers. Repository mirroring can allow the cobbler server to mirror not only install the trees and but also optional packages third party content and updates. Mirroring can be useful for faster more up to date installations and faster updates or providing software on restricted networks. The cobbler server can also include other administrative features such as allowing the user to view their provisioning configuration or information tracking the status of a requested software installation.

According to exemplary aspects a user can utilize commands to create a provisioning infrastructure from a distribution mirror. Then a default PXE configuration is created so that by default systems will PXE boot into a fully automated install process for that distribution. The distribution mirror can be a network rsync mirror or a mounted DVD location.

According to exemplary aspects the administrator uses a local kernel and initrd file already downloaded and shows how profiles would be created using two different kickstarts one for a web server configuration and one for a database server. Then a machine can be assigned to each profile.

According to exemplar aspects a repo mirror can be set up for two repositories and create a profile that will auto install those repository configurations on provisioned systems using that profile.

According to exemplary aspects in addition to normal provisioning the cobbler server can support yet another option called enchant . Enchant takes a configuration that has already been defined and applies it to a remote system that might not have the remote helper program installed. Users might want to use this command to replace a server that is being repurposed or when no PXE environment can be created. Thus the enchant option allows the remote the koan client to be executed remotely from the cobbler server .

According to aspects if the cobbler server is configured to mirror certain repositories the cobbler server can then be used to associate profiles with those repositories. Systems installed under those profiles can be auto configured to use these repository mirrors in commands and if supported these repositories can be leveraged. This can be useful for a large install base when fast installation and upgrades for systems are desired or software not in a standard repository exists and provisioned systems are desired to know about that repository.

According to exemplary aspects the cobbler server may also keep track of the status of kickstarting machines. For example the cobbler status will show when the cobbler server thinks a machine started kickstarting and when it last requested a file. This can be a desirable way to track machines that may have gone inactive during kickstarts. The cobbler server can also make a special request in the post section of the kickstart to signal when a machine is finished kickstarting.

According to exemplary aspects for certain commands the cobbler server will create new virtualized guests on a machine in accordance to the orders from the cobbler server . Once finished an administrator may use additional commands on the guest or other operations. The cobbler server can automatically name domains based on their MAC addresses. For re kickstarting the cobbler server can reprovision the system deleting any current data and replacing it with the results of a network install.

According to exemplary aspects the cobbler server can configure boot methods for the provisioning requested by the user. For example the cobbler server can configure a PXE environment such as a network card BIOS. Alternatively the cobbler server can compile and configure information for koan client . The cobbler server can also optionally configure DHCP and DNS configuration information.

According to exemplary aspects the cobbler server can serve the request of the koan client . The koan client can acknowledge the service of information of the cobbler server and then can initiate installation of the software being provisioned. Additionally the koan client can either install the requested software e.g. replace the existing operating system or install a virtual machine.

As shown in the network can include a gateway and a number of hosts . The gateway can be configured to provide a route for the systems and machines of the network to access different networks such as local area networks or wide area networks e.g. Internet . The gateway can be any type of hardware software or combination thereof to provide network communications between the network and networks . For example the gateway can be a router switch proxy server and the like.

The hosts can be configured to support sub networks of the network . The hosts can include hardware software and combinations thereof to provide the necessary support to enable target machines to be connected to network and communicate with the networks via the gateway . The hosts can be configured to provide services such as DHCP domain name system DNS access control and the like. For example the hosts can include one or multiple servers such as proxy servers host servers DHCP servers DNS servers and the like.

In embodiments the cobbler server can be configured to manage the network . In embodiments the cobbler server can be configured to manage and configure the various components of the network such as the gateway host and target machines . To achieve this the cobbler server can be configured to include a network configuration module .

In embodiments the network configuration module can be implemented as a portion of the code for the cobbler server . Likewise the network configuration module can be implemented as a separate software tool accessible by the cobbler server . The network configuration module can be written in a variety of programming languages such as JAVA C Python code and the like to accommodate a variety of operating systems machine architectures etc. Additionally the network configuration module can be configured to include the appropriate application programming interfaces APIs to communicate with and cooperate with other components of the cobbler server .

The network configuration module can be configured to maintain a network record of network configurations for the network served by the cobbler server . The network record can include information describing the structure hardware software and configuration of the network . For example the network record can include information such as the types of the network the types of hardware and software supporting the network e.g. the gateway the hosts configuration for the hardware and software and network parameters for the networks specific type of networks and sub network network addresses for network e.g. overall network addresses and network addresses supported by each host network host identification of host gateway address and identification network masks for the subnetworks supported by host identification of the target machines network addresses of the target machines and the like . The network record can be stored in any repository such as database associated with the cobbler server or can be maintained in the network configuration module .

In embodiments the cobbler server can be configured to manage and configure the network utilizing the network record . The network configuration module can be configured to retrieve the information maintained in the network record to manage and configure the network . For example in response to a request or upon its own direction the network configuration module can be configured to alter the configuration of existing network structure and hardware or software of components such as a hosts . As such in this example the network configuration module can be configured to retrieve the appropriate information for the hosts . The network configuration module can then alter the information as desired update the information in recored and provide the altered configuration information to the hosts .

In embodiments the cobbler server can be configured to manage the network when adding new hardware or software to the network . For example a new host can be added to network . To manage the network connection the network configuration module can be configured to retrieve the exiting configuration information of network from network record . The configuration module can be configured to examine the existing configuration information of network to determine the configuration information for the new host .

For example the network configuration module can be configured to retrieve the information for gateway such as identification and address in order to properly connect the new host to the gateway . Likewise the network configuration module can be configured to examine existing configurations of hosts to determine a configuration for the new host e.g. assign an identification different from existing hosts . Further the network configuration module can be configured to examine existing network parameters such as network address supported by hosts to determine network parameters to be supported by the new host .

Once the configuration information is determined for the new host the cobbler server can be configured to provide the configuration information to the new host . Likewise the cobbler server can be configured to update the configuration information of other network hardware and software if necessary. For example if a range of network addresses e.g. IP addresses are assigned to the new host the support of these assigned ranges can be removed from supported network addresses of the hosts . The network configuration module can be configured to update the network record with the new configuration information.

In embodiments the cobbler server can be configured to perform the network connection management in combination with the software provisioning processes. To achieve this the cobbler server can be configured to associate provisioning objects with the network configurations for the network . The cobbler server can be configured to maintain an object record that associates the network configurations with different provisioning object. The object record can be maintained as a separate record or the associations can be contained in the network record . The object record can be stored in any repository such as database associated with the cobbler server or can be maintained in the network configuration module .

In embodiments the provisioning objects can include all the data required by a cobbler server to perform the software provisioning processes such as the process described above supported by the cobbler server. For example the provisioning objects can include software distributions configuration templates templates for generating configuration files such as kickstart files distribution profile information mapping a distribution to profile a configuration template or a configuration file and additional preferences such as kernel options template variables or virtual machine settings target machine information information representing the mapping of a physical piece of hardware plus hardware specific customizations to a profile that it should run repos information information representing external or internal software repositories stored on the cobbler server images such as distributions representing an undefined executable image like memtest a virtual machine to be cloned or an ISO file for use in installing a virtual machine and the like.

In embodiments the cobbler server can be configured to determine network configuration information and network parameters when software provisioning processes are performed for a provisioning object associated with the network configuration. For example when adding the new host the cobbler server can be configured to provision software to the new host during installation. As such the cobbler server can be configured to associated a provisioning object such as a profile for the new host or identification of the new host with the network configuration information for the network . As such when the provisioning is requested or initiated the cobbler server can retrieve the network configuration information from the network record and perform the network configuration as described above.

In embodiments the cobbler server can be configured to utilize the associated provisioning object and network configurations to manage the network parameters of the target machines . The cobbler server can be configured to utilize the object record to determine network parameters for target machines requesting provisioning processes such as target machine installs virtualization and the like. For example if the cobbler server performs a provisioning process such as a software update on a target machine the cobbler server can be configured to perform network configuration if the network configuration information is associated with the process and if necessary.

In embodiments when a new target machine is added to the network the cobbler server can be configured to provide provisioning processes to the new target machine . In order to configure the network connection of the new target machine the cobbler server can be configured to associate the network configuration information with provisioning object for the new target machine . As such when the provisioning is requested or initiated the cobbler server can retrieve the network configuration information from the network record associated with the particular provisioning object for the new target machine and perform the network configuration for the new target machine .

For example the distribution profile e.g. client computer system or the target machine identification e.g. MAC address for the new target machine can be associated with the network configuration information host identification network mask gateway network addresses supported by host and the like for the network and subnet where the new target machine will be installed. Once provisioning has be requested or initiated the network configuration module can be configured to retrieve the associated network configuration information from network record . The network configuration module can be configured to determine network parameters for the new target machine based on the retrieved network configuration information. For example the network configuration module can select the identification of gateway and the identification of the host and select an available network address from the network addresses supported by the host and not currently utilized by other target machines .

At the appropriate time the cobbler server can provide the network parameters to the new target machine . Likewise the cobbler server can provide the network parameters assigned to the new target machine to other components in the network e.g. host can be provided with the MAC address and the network address assigned to the new target machine . Additionally the cobbler server can update the network record with the network parameters provided to the new target machine .

In embodiments the cobbler server can be configured to associate provisioning objects for additional provisioning to be performed on the target machines with the network configuration information. For example the cobbler server can be configured to utilize the associated provisioning object and network configurations to manage the network parameters for virtual machines instantiated in the target machines .

In embodiments when the instantiation of a virtual machine is requested or initiated the cobbler server can retrieve the network configuration information from the network record associated with the particular provisioning object and perform the network configuration for the new virtual machine. For example the cobbler server can be configured to maintain in network record a set of virtual MAC addresses to be assigned to virtual machines. Additionally the cobbler server can be configured to maintain multiple sets of virtual MAC addresses for virtual machines with each set of virtual MAC addresses related to a type of virtual machine. For example different hypervisors have different valid MAC ranges that can be assigned to them e.g. the MAC ranges for Vmware KVM Xen all differ . As such the cobbler server can be configured to maintain a separate set of virtual MAC addresses for each type of virtual machine.

When a virtual machine is to be instantiated on a target machine the network configuration module can be configured to retrieve the network configuration information for the target machine on which the virtual machine will be instantiated. The network configuration module can be configured to determine network parameters for the new virtual machine based on the retrieved network configuration information. For example the network configuration module can select the identification of gateway and the identification of the host supported the target machine . Additionally the network configuration module can be configured to select a virtual MAC address for the virtual machine that is not currently utilized and select an available network address from the network addresses supported by the host and not currently utilized by other target machines or virtual machines. Further if the cobbler server maintains multiple sets of virtual MAC address the cobbler server can be configured to select a virtual MAC address from the appropriate set of virtual MAC addresses related to the type of the virtual machine.

At the appropriate time the cobbler server can provide the network parameters to the new virtual machine. Likewise the cobbler server can provide the network parameters assigned to the new virtual machine to other components in the network e.g. host can be provided with the virtua MAC address and network address assigned to the new target machine . Additionally the cobbler server can update the network record with the network parameters provided to the new virtual machine.

Processor farther communicates with network interface such as an Ethernet or wireless data connection which in turn communicates with one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private networks. Processor also communicates with the provisioning database and the network configuration module to execute control logic and perform the network management processes described above.

While illustrates the cobbler server as a standalone system comprising a combination of hardware and software the cobbler server can also be implemented as a software application or program capable of being executed by a convention computer platform. Likewise the cobbler server can also be implemented as a software module or program module capable of being incorporated in other software applications and programs. In either case the cobbler server can be implemented in any type of conventional proprietary or open source computer language.

In the cobbler server can receive a request to manage a network connection in network . For example the the cobbler server can receive a request to alter the configuration of components of the network or add new components. The request can be received from a user of the cobbler server users of the network and or from the components of the network .

In the cobbler server can perform the requested management. For example the network configuration module can be configured to alter the configuration of existing network structure and hardware or software of components such as a hosts . As such in this example the network configuration module can be configured to retrieve the appropriate information for the hosts . The network configuration module can then alter the information as desired update the information in recored and provide the altered configuration information to the hosts .

Likewise the cobbler server can be configured to manage the network when adding new hardware or software to the network . For example a new host can be added to network . To manage the network connection the network configuration module can be configured to retrieve the exiting configuration information of network from network record . The configuration module can be configured to examine the existing configuration information of network to determine the configuration information for the new host .

While the invention has been described with reference to the exemplary embodiments thereof those skilled in the art will be able to make various modifications to the described embodiments without departing from the true spirit and scope. The terms and descriptions used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. In particular although the method has been described by examples the steps of the method may be performed in a different order than illustrated or simultaneously. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these and other variations are possible within the spirit and scope as defined in the following claims and their equivalents.

