---

title: Estimating remaining use time of a mobile device
abstract: The present disclosure provides methods and systems for estimating the remaining use time of a battery of a mobile device. In some implementations, the method includes providing a use profile programmed in a memory of the mobile device, and monitoring a rate of change of a state of charge (SOC) of the battery. The rate of change of the SOC and the use profile are processed to affect a comparison therebetween, and the remaining use time is estimated based on the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07960945&OS=07960945&RS=07960945
owner: Google Inc.
number: 07960945
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080130
---
This disclosure relates to methods and systems for power management in mobile devices and more particularly to estimating the remaining use time of a mobile device.

As the quantity of available information on computer networks has increased and as users have become accustomed to accessing this information through fixed computing devices such as a desktop personal computer permanently connected to an appropriately provisioned network and laptop computing devices having either a wired or wireless connection to a network users have demanded access to the same information through their mobile devices. Specifically users now expect to be able to access stock quotes baseball scores restaurant listings and the like including accurate network search results from their mobile devices. Accordingly handheld mobile devices such as cellular telephones and personal digital assistants PDAs are becoming increasingly powerful both in terms of processing power and the ability to provide access to data. Such portable devices are also integrating additional features. For example many portable devices also function as portable music and or video players which can record store and replay music and video content.

Portable devices generally include a battery which provides power when the portable device is not directly connected to a power source. Advances in battery technology have extended the battery life. However the increased demands on the portable devices such as computing devices information terminals portable music and or video players and the like have correspondingly increased the power demand from the battery.

This document discloses methods techniques and systems for estimating the remaining use time of a mobile device. In some implementations the methods include providing a use profile programmed in a memory of the mobile device and monitoring a rate of change of a state of charge SOC of the battery. The rate of change of the SOC and the use profile are processed to affect a comparison therebetween and the remaining use time is estimated based on the comparison.

In some implementations a usage category of the mobile device corresponding to the use profile and the rate of change of the SOC associated with the usage category are determined. An amount of time that the mobile device is operating in the usage category is calculated and a baseline use percentage value of the usage category is updated based on the rate of change of the SOC and the amount of time. The baseline use percentage value can be updated based on pro rated rate of change of the SOC values when the mobile device is operating in concurrent usage categories.

In other implementations the remaining use time is compared to a threshold time and a normal alert is provided when the remaining use time is greater than the threshold time. An increased alert can be provided when the remaining use time is not greater than the threshold time.

In still other implementations the use profile is selected from a plurality of use profiles. Use of the mobile device can be monitored and the use profile can be automatically selected by the mobile device based on the use of the mobile device. Alternatively or in addition thereto the use profile can be selected based on a user input.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In various implementations methods techniques and systems for estimating the remaining usage time of a portable device are described herein. As described in further detail below the state of charge SOC of a battery of a mobile device and the rate of change of the SOC are intermittently monitored. The SOC of a battery indicates the amount of usable energy stored within the battery at a given time. More specifically the SOC is the battery s available capacity expressed as a percentage of its rated capacity. By monitoring the amount of energy left in the battery compared with the energy it had when it was most recently recharged as well as the rate of change of the SOC an indication of how much longer a battery will continue to perform before it needs recharging can be provided. Once the SOC falls below a threshold level the battery is no longer able to sufficiently power the mobile device and the mobile device may be deactivated.

The SOC of the battery can be determined using various methods. In some exemplary methods the voltage and or current of the battery can be intermittently measured and the SOC can be determined based thereon. When using the voltage of the battery as the basis for determining the SOC the results can vary depending on actual voltage level the battery temperature the discharge rate and the age of the battery. Compensation for these factors should be provided to achieve an accurate SOC value. The current entering and leaving the battery can serve as a basis for determining the SOC. The charge transferred in or out of the battery is obtained by accumulating the current drain over time which is known as Coulomb counting. As with voltage monitoring compensation for other operating conditions is required to provide an accurate SOC value.

In one exemplary method the SOC of the battery can be determined from a look up table or multiple look up tables stored in a memory of the mobile device. The look up table s can be empirically derived for the particular battery and can consider other factors that may affect the SOC of the battery. The monitored voltage and or current can be used as inputs to the look up table and the SOC can be determined based thereon. In another exemplary method the SOC of the battery can be determined from a formula that is processed within a processor of the mobile device. The formula can be a mathematical representation or model of the battery and can be empirically developed to consider other factors that may affect the SOC of the battery. The monitored voltage and or current values can be processed through the voltage and the SOC determined based thereon.

Regardless of the actual method implemented for determining the SOC the methods and systems described herein monitor the rate of change of the SOC during use of the mobile device. The rate of change of the SOC hereinafter dSOC dt will vary based on the particular energy demands at a given time. A mobile device such as that described in further detail below can perform various functions that can be classified into usage categories. Exemplary usage categories include but are not limited to a telephone an email terminal an Internet browser a video player an audio player a text messaging portal an instant messaging portal and or a global positioning system GPS portal. When functioning as an Internet browser the mobile device can be used to provide streaming video and or audio through the Internet connection. Other usage categories include but are not limited to standby and OFF. When operating in the standby usage category the mobile device is powered ON but is not being actively operated by a user.

Other usage categories are also anticipated within the scope of the present disclosure. In a standby active usage category the mobile device can execute functions on the user s behalf even though the user isn t interacting with the mobile device. For example the mobile device can synchronize data in the background pre fetch web pages and the like without user interaction. From the user s point of view the mobile device is operating in standby but in the standby active usage category a different power profile is provided than that of the standby usage category.

A use profile or multiple use profiles can be developed and stored in a memory of the mobile device. The use profile profiles the battery consumption of the mobile device in terms of dSOC dt as a function of the usage category. The use profile maps the use of the mobile device using percentages of how often the mobile device operates in a particular usage category. A number of usage categories can be defined for a particular mobile device based on the particular configuration of the mobile device. For example if the mobile device is not configured with a GPS receiver the mobile device can not function as a GPS portal. Accordingly the use profile of that mobile device will either not include a GPS usage category or will be rated as 0 for example for that usage category.

Referring now to an exemplar table illustrates multiple usage categories dSOC dt values X for each usage category an exemplar normal use profile NORM and an exemplar traveling use profile TRAV . Although two use profiles are described herein it is anticipated that other implementations of the present disclosure can use fewer or more use profiles. The normal use profile includes percentage values UP each of which is associated with a particular usage category. The travel use profile includes percentage values UP each of which is associated with a particular usage category.

The normal use profile represents the typical usage of the mobile device for the particular user. During normal use the amount of remaining usage time can be determined based on the normal use profile and the corresponding discharge rates. If for some reason the user deviates from the normal use profile an alert can be generated to inform the user that the remaining usage time i.e. the remaining time before the SOC of the battery is too low to operate the mobile device is shorter or longer than the user would typically anticipate. For example if the user is using the mobile device more often and or in usage categories with higher rates of discharge than normal the mobile device will alert the user that the battery will not last as long as the user may be accustomed to.

The travel use profile represents the typical usage of the mobile device while the particular user is traveling. For example a user may use his her mobile device more often for calls email Internet access or other reasons while traveling. Accordingly the user can manually switch between use profiles as desired by selecting a desired use profile on the mobile device. In other implementations the mobile device can automatically switch between use profiles. For example if the monitored usage time for usage categories differ from that of the currently selected use profile the mobile device can switch to another use profile. In some implementations the difference in usage times must be greater than a threshold difference. It is also anticipated that the mobile device can alert the user that the use profile has changed or will be changed and the user can accept or deny the change.

In one implementation an initial normal use profile can be pre programmed in the memory of the mobile device and can be updated based on the usage habits of the particular user. As described in further detail below the amount of time that the mobile device is operating in a particular usage category relative to the overall usage time of the mobile device can be monitored and the percentage value is updated based thereon. In other implementations an initial travel use profile can be pre programmed in the memory of the mobile device and can be updated based on the usage habits of the particular user. The initial travel use profile can be the same as the initial normal use profile or can deviate therefrom to be more reflective of how the mobile device may be typically used when the user is traveling. Furthermore the baseline dSOC dt value assigned to each usage category can vary over time. Accordingly the dSOC dt value for each category can be monitored and the baseline values for the current or active profile can be updated based thereon.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrates an exemplary process for updating the current use profile. That is the use profile currently active on the mobile device. In step the current usage category is determined or categories in the case of concurrent uses e.g. typing an email while talking on speakerphone . In step the SOC is monitored and the current dSOC dt is determined based thereon. In step it is determined whether multiple usage categories are being concurrently used. If multiple usage categories are not being concurrently used the process continues at step . If multiple usage categories are being concurrently used the process continues at step .

In step the baseline use percentage UP for the single usage category is updated based on the monitored amount of time that the mobile device has been operating in the usage category. In step the baseline dSOC dt for the usage category is updated based on the monitored dSOC dt and the process ends. In step the determined dSOC dt and the monitored amount of time that the mobile device has been operating in the multiple usage categories are pro rated for the usage categories. The baseline UP for each usage category is updated based on the pro rated time in step . In step the baseline dSOC dt is updated for each of the usage categories and the process ends.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrates an exemplar process for monitoring the remaining usage time t of the battery. In step the current use profile is determined. In step the current SOC of the battery is determined. tis estimated in step . More specifically tis estimated based on the current SOC in view of the use profile information such as the usage percentage UP values and corresponding dSOC dt X values. In step it is determined whether tis less than a usage time threshold t . If tis less than t an elevated alert is provided to the user in step and the process ends. The elevated alert indicates tand or a current SOC value and also indicates that rate of discharge of the battery is greater than what would be normal for the current use profile. If tis not less than t a normal alert is provided in step and the process ends. The normal alert indicates tand or a current SOC value to the user.

Referring now to the exterior appearance of an exemplary device that implements the usage time estimating and alerting is illustrated. In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying text images and video to a user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a camera a microphone and a speaker . Although the device shows an external antenna the device can include an internal antenna which is not visible to the user.

The display can display video graphics images and text that make up the user interface for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Among the possible elements that may be displayed on the display are a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by via the antenna such as by using signal strength bars a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that outputs the current time.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon a mapping application icon an email application icon or other application icons. In one example implementation the display is a quarter video graphics array QVGA thin film transistor TFT liquid crystal display LCD capable of 16 bit or better color.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications that provide for usage time estimating and alerting. The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the alphanumeric characters Q and W when selected alone or are associated with the characters and 1 when pressed in combination with key . A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a numeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a 1 to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call a drop down menu key that causes a menu to appear within the display a backward navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a favorites key that causes an active web page to be placed in a bookmarks folder of favorite sites or causes a bookmarks folder to appear a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna which can be an external antenna or an internal antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radiofrequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies such as Wireless Broadband WiBro Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave ACCess WiMAX 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Performance Radio Metropolitan Network HIPERMAN iBurst or High Capacity Spatial Division Multiple Access HC SDMA High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Evolution HSPA High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Generic Access Network GAN Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data Only EVDO Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA Freedom Of Mobile Multimedia Access FOMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 Wideband Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network WIDEN High Speed Circuit Switched Data HSCSD General Packet Radio Service GPRS Personal Handy Phone System PHS Circuit Switched Data CSD Personal Digital Cellular PDC CDMAone Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS Integrated Digital Enhanced Network IDEN Global System for Mobile communications GSM DataTAC Mobitex Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Hicap Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Nordic Mobile Phone NMP Autoradiopuhelin ARP Autotel or Public Automated Land Mobile PALM Mobiltelefonisystem D MTD Offentlig Landmobil Telefoni OLT Advanced Mobile Telephone System AMTS Improved Mobile Telephone Service IMTS Mobile Telephone System MTS Push To Talk PTT or other technologies. Communication via W CDMA HSUPA GSM GPRS and EDGE networks may occur for example using a QUALCOMM MSM7200A chipset with an QUALCOMM RTR6285 transceiver and PM7540 power management circuit.

The wireless or wired computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network connection may connect to a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet a telephone network or other network. The network connection uses a wired or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector a WiFi wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector such as a BLUETOOTH version 1.2 or 3.0 connector a near field communications NFC connector an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM ultra wide band UWB wireless connector a time modulated ultra wide band TM UWB wireless connector or other wireless connector. Example wired connectors include for example a IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector including a mini B USB interface connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wired connector. In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The camera allows the device to capture digital images and may be a scanner a digital still camera a digital video camera other digital input device. In one example implementation the camera is a 3 mega pixel MP camera that utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS .

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bi directional microphone a shotgun microphone or other type of apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such as a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

The architecture further includes a display interface that provides a communication interface and processing functions for rendering video graphics images and texts on the display provides a set of built in controls such as buttons text and lists and supports diverse screen sizes a keyboard interface that provides a communication interface to the keyboard a pointing device interface that provides a communication interface to the pointing device an antenna interface that provides a communication interface to the antenna a network connection interface that provides a communication interface to a network over the computer network connection a camera interface that provides a communication interface and processing functions for capturing digital images from the camera a sound interface that provides a communication interface for converting sound into electrical signals using the microphone and for converting electrical signals into sound using the speaker a random access memory RAM where computer instructions and data are stored in a volatile memory device for processing by the CPU a read only memory ROM where invariant low level systems code or data for basic system functions such as basic input and output I O startup or reception of keystrokes from the keyboard are stored in a non volatile memory device a storage medium or other suitable type of memory e.g. such as RAM ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM magnetic disks optical disks floppy disks hard disks removable cartridges flash drives where the files that comprise an operating system application programs including for example a web browser application a widget or gadget engine and or other applications as necessary and data files are stored a navigation module that provides a real world or relative position or geographic location of the device a power source that provides an appropriate alternating current AC or direct current DC to power components and a telephony subsystem that allows the device to transmit and receive sound over a telephone network. The constituent devices and the CPU communicate with each other over a bus .

The CPU can be one of a number of computer processors. In one arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory.

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive an internal hard disk drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM. Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device .

A computer program product is tangibly embodied in storage medium a machine readable storage medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to store image data in the mobile device. In some implementations the computer program product includes instructions that generate usage time estimating and alerting functionality as described herein.

The operating system may be a LINUX based operating system such as the ANDROID mobile device platform APPLE MAC OS X MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS MOBILE a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform such as the ANDROID application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW JAVA Platform Micro Edition JAVA ME or JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME using the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVASCRIPT programming language PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT .NET Compact or another appropriate environment.

The device stores computer executable code for the operating system and the application programs such as an email instant messaging a video service application a mapping application word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming mapping web browsing JAVASCRIPT engine or other applications. For example one implementation may allow a user to access the GOOGLE GMAIL email application the GOOGLE TALK instant messaging application a YOUTUBE video service application a GOOGLE MAPS or GOOGLE EARTH mapping application or a GOOGLE PICASA imaging editing and presentation application. The application programs may also include a widget or gadget engine such as a TAFRI widget engine a MICROSOFT gadget engine such as the WINDOWS SIDEBAR gadget engine or the KAPSULES gadget engine a YAHOO widget engine such as the KONFABULTOR widget engine the APPLE DASHBOARD widget engine the GOOGLE gadget engine the KLIPFOLIO widget engine an OPERA widget engine the WIDSETS widget engine a proprietary widget or gadget engine or other widget or gadget engine the provides host system software for a physically inspired applet on a desktop.

Although it is possible to provide for usage time estimating and alerting using the above described implementation it is also possible to implement the functions according to the present disclosure as a dynamic link library DLL or as a plug in to other application programs such as an Internet web browser such as the FOXFIRE web browser the APPLE SAFARI web browser or the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER web browser.

The navigation module may determine an absolute or relative position of the device such as by using the Global Positioning System GPS signals the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System GLONASS the Galileo positioning system the Beidou Satellite Navigation and Positioning System an inertial navigation system a dead reckoning system or by accessing address internet protocol IP address or location information in a database. The navigation module may also be used to measure angular displacement orientation or velocity of the device such as by using one or more accelerometers. Another source of location data can include cellular towers in range of the mobile device.

The operating system can generally be organized into six components a kernel libraries an operating system runtime application libraries system services and applications . The kernel includes a display driver that allows software such as the operating system and the application programs to interact with the display via the display interface a camera driver that allows the software to interact with the camera a BLUETOOTH driver a M Systems driver a binder IPC driver a USB driver a keypad driver that allows the software to interact with the keyboard via the keyboard interface a WiFi driver audio drivers that allow the software to interact with the microphone and the speaker via the sound interface and a power management component that allows the software to interact with and manage the power source .

The BLUETOOTH driver which in one implementation is based on the BlueZ BLUETOOTH stack for LINUX based operating systems provides profile support for headsets and hands free devices dial up networking personal area networking PAN or audio streaming such as by Advance Audio Distribution Profile A2DP or Audio Video Remote Control Profile AVRCP . The BLUETOOTH driver provides JAVA bindings for scanning pairing and unpairing and service queries.

The libraries include a media framework that supports standard video audio and still frame formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 Advanced Audio Coding AAC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG and others using an efficient JAVA Application Programming Interface API layer a surface manager a simple graphics library SGL for two dimensional application drawing an Open Graphics Library for Embedded Systems OpenGL ES for gaming and three dimensional rendering a C standard library LIBC a LIBWEBCORE library a FreeType library an SSL and an SQLite library .

The operating system runtime includes core JAVA libraries and a Dalvik virtual machine . The Dalvik virtual machine is a custom virtual machine that runs a customized file format .DEX .

The operating system can also include Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP components such as the MIDP JAVA Specification Requests JSRs components MIDP runtime and MIDP applications as shown in . The MIDP components can support MIDP applications running on the device .

With regard to graphics rendering a system wide composer manages surfaces and a frame buffer and handles window transitions using the OpenGL ES and two dimensional hardware accelerators for its compositions.

The Dalvik virtual machine may be used with an embedded environment since it uses runtime memory very efficiently implements a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and supports multiple virtual machine processes per device. The custom file format .DEX is designed for runtime efficiency using a shared constant pool to reduce memory read only structures to improve cross process sharing concise and fixed width instructions to reduce parse time thereby allowing installed applications to be translated into the custom file formal at build time. The associated bytecodes are designed for quick interpretation since register based instead of stack based instructions reduce memory and dispatch overhead since using fixed width instructions simplifies parsing and since the 16 bit code units minimize reads.

The application libraries include a view system a resource manager and content providers . The system services includes a status bar an application launcher a package manager that maintains information for all installed applications a telephony manager that provides an application level JAVA interface to the telephony subsystem a notification manager that allows all applications access to the status bar and on screen notifications a window manager that allows multiple applications with multiple windows to share the display and an activity manager that runs each application in a separate process manages an application life cycle and maintains a cross application history.

The applications include a home application a dialer application a contacts application a browser application and usage time estimating and alerting application .

The telephony manager provides event notifications such as phone state network state Subscriber Identity Module SIM status or voicemail status allows access to state information such as network information SIM information or voicemail presence initiates calls and queries and controls the call state. The browser application renders web pages in a full desktop like manager including navigation functions. Furthermore the browser application allows single column small screen rendering and provides for the embedding of HTML views into other applications.

Some processes can be persistent. For example processes associated with core system components such as the surface manager the window manager or the activity manager can be continuously executed while the device is powered. Additionally some application specific process can also be persistent. For example processes associated with the dialer application may also be persistent.

The processes implemented by the operating system kernel may generally be categorized as system services processes dialer processes browser processes and maps processes . The system services processes include status bar processes associated with the status bar application launcher processes associated with the application launcher package manager processes associated with the package manager activity manager processes associated with the activity manager resource manager processes associated with a resource manager that provides access to graphics localized strings and XML layout descriptions notification manger processes associated with the notification manager window manager processes associated with the window manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries surface manager processes associated with the surface manager Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library and usage time estimating and alerting processes associated with the usage time estimating and alerting application .

The dialer processes include dialer application processes associated with the dialer application telephony manager processes associated with the telephony manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik Virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library . The browser processes include browser application processes associated with the browser application core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBWEBCORE processes associated with the LIBWEBCORE library and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The maps processes include maps application processes core JAVA libraries processes Dalvik virtual machine processes and LIBC processes . Notably some processes such as the Dalvik virtual machine processes may exist within one or more of the systems services processes the dialer processes the browser processes and the maps processes .

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

