---

title: Intelligent autocompletion
abstract: Various embodiments utilize an auto-complete module to expose a website's content structure. In at least some embodiments, a user can take an action within an application and, responsively, the auto-complete module can retrieve a site index file or site map and use the site index file or site map to display the website's content structure. In at least some embodiments, a website's content structure can be displayed without navigating to the particular website. In at least some embodiments, the auto-complete module can utilize standard protocols such as HTTP protocols to retrieve the site index file or site map.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08051370&OS=08051370&RS=08051370
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08051370
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080423
---
With the proliferation of online browsing and other activities involving the Internet users are faced with a daunting task of identifying content that may be of interest to them. For example if a user navigates to a particular website they must often either parse through the content on the website to find items of interest or use the website s site index to ascertain what content is available at that site. In the former case the user must navigate to and physically look through various content at the website. In the latter case the user must first locate the website s site index if there is one and then navigate through the site index to locate content of interest.

Needless to say this places a significant burden on the user. In addition in scenarios in which a user might be employing a hand held device such as a cellular phone to navigate the web latency issues associated with rendering content on the device can further bog down the user s experience.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Various embodiments utilize an auto complete module to expose a website s content structure. In at least some embodiments a user can take an action within an application and responsively the auto complete module can retrieve a site index file or site map and use the site index file or site map to display the website s content structure. In at least some embodiments a website s content structure can be displayed without navigating to the particular website.

In at least some embodiments the auto complete module can utilize standard protocols such as HTTP protocols to retrieve the site index file or site map.

Various embodiments utilize an auto complete module to expose a website s content structure. In at least some embodiments a user can take an action within an application and responsively the auto complete module can retrieve a site index file or site map and use the site index file or site map to display the website s content structure. In at least some embodiments a website s content structure can be displayed without navigating to the particular website. The auto complete module can be utilized by any suitable type of application such as by way of example and not limitation Web browsers RSS readers media player applications e mail applications and or any other type of Internet based application examples of which are provided below.

In at least some embodiments the auto complete module can utilize standard protocols such as HTTP protocols to retrieve the site index file or site map. Once the site index file or site map is retrieved the file or map can be parsed to identify a structure that is described in the file or map. Once identified a representation of the structure can be rendered for the user so that the user can ascertain site categories content descriptions and other information associated with the website. As noted above the structure s representation can be rendered for the user without navigating to the particular website. However it is to be appreciated and understood that the functionality described herein can be provided once a user has navigated to a particular website as will become apparent below.

In the discussion that follows a section entitled Operating Environment is provided and describes one environment in which one or more embodiments can be employed. Following this a section entitled Example Embodiment is provided and describes an example embodiment. Following this a section entitled Example Method describes a method in accordance with one or more embodiments. Last a section entitled Example System is provided and describes one system that can be utilized to implement one or more embodiments.

Having provided an overview of the various embodiments consider now a discussion of an example operating environment in accordance with one or more embodiments.

In addition computing device includes a software application in the form of a web browser . Any suitable web browser can be used examples of which are available from the assignee of this document and others. In addition computing device includes an auto complete module that can operate as described above and below.

The auto complete module can comprise a stand alone component that is utilized by one or more of applications and or Web browser . Alternately or additionally the auto complete module can be integrated with one or more of applications and or Web browser . In various embodiments application s and or web browser are configured to utilize auto complete module to enable users to access site categories content descriptions level associated content descriptions and the like with less navigation than would normally be used to access such information.

In addition environment includes a network such as the Internet and one or more web sites from and to which content can be received and sent.

Computing device can be embodied as any suitable computing device such as by way of example and not limitation a desktop computer a portable computer a handheld computer such as a personal digital assistant PDA cell phone and the like.

Having considered an example operating environment consider now a discussion of an example embodiment.

As an example consider which illustrates the address bar of . In this example the user has entered text associated with the URL www.yahoo.com . In at least some embodiments a user can then take an associated action to cause the site index file or site map associated with the URL to be returned to the client application. As an example consider which uses like designators from .

There the user has acted to enter a slash as indicated at . Responsive to this user action the client application which in this case is a Web browser can issue an HTTP Get request to the domain associated with the URL. The Get request can request the site index file or site map associated with that domain. Typically such files are stored in standard locations and are named in conventional ways as will be appreciated by the skilled artisan. For example often times these files are stored in the root directory at a particular site.

Responsive to issuing the Get request the site index file or site map is returned to the client application. In one or more embodiments a site owner can configure their site index file or site map to include any suitable type of information that can be rendered by a client application. For example site owners can define their site s content structure by level or hierarchy. So for example the site index file might identify all top level categories and then for each top level category identified a first sub level. In addition site owners can provide descriptive text or other information that can be displayed along with the various top level and sub level categories. For example the descriptive text can provide a description of what is available at a particular level. Other information that can be included in the site index file can include by way of example and not limitation various images such as favicons that can identify a particular level or sub level.

As shown in a drop down menu is presented and displays a top level of the website s content structure at . In this particular example the top level includes a finance level a news level a music level a movies level and a maps level. In addition in this particular example the site index file also includes descriptive text that can provide a description of what is available at a particular associated level. For example for the top level music descriptive text informs the user that this level includes Internet radio music videos artists music news interviews and performances.

In at least some embodiments the above described information can be presented to the user without the user navigating to a particular site. This can provide valuable information to the user to then enable the user to make an intelligent decision as to how and where to navigate next.

In one or more embodiments once drop down menu is displayed the user can take one or more actions associated with the items that appear in the drop down menu. For example the user can simply ignore the items and continue typing in the address bar. Alternately or additionally the user can highlight the particular item appearing in the drop down menu and select one of the options to navigate to that particular website s level. Accordingly in this example the user is relieved from having to navigate to the primary website. Rather they can navigate into deeper levels of the website as a first navigation activity. Alternately or additionally the user can highlight a particular displayed item and further take additional actions to see deeper results within that particular item. As an example consider which uses previously used designators.

There the user has highlighted the music item as indicated at . Referring to which uses previously used designators the user has entered a as indicated at . Responsive to this user action and in accordance with one or more embodiments the client application can issue another Get request to receive an additional site index file or site map that describes levels appearing under the music level. Specifically in this example an additional drop down menu can be displayed for the user. In this particular example the sub levels that are displayed include a music artists level a music videos level and a music news level. Additionally in this particular example descriptive text is provided for individual sub levels to provide the user with a description of what can be found at a particular sub level.

The above described example illustrates the use of an auto complete module in the context of a web browser s address bar. It is to be appreciated and understood however that the functionality provided by the auto complete module can be utilized in other contexts within the Web browser and or with other applications. As an example consider .

There a user interface in the form of a web browser window is illustrated generally at . In this particular example the user has hovered their cursor over or near an instrumentality in the Web browser window. The instrumentality can comprise any suitable instrumentality that can appear in a Web browser window. In this example the instrumentality is a home icon that appears in the browser window. Responsive to hovering their cursor over this instrumentality a drop down menu can be presented that describes the user s homepage content in a manner described above. As an example consider which uses previously used designators.

There a drop down menu is provided which describes various levels and or sub levels associated with a user s homepage. In much the same way that the user can navigate to the different levels or receive additional information as presented relative to the address bar above so too can a user navigate or receive additional information using drop down menu .

As noted above the auto complete module can be used in connection with other applications as well. As an example consider .

There a user interface in the form of an e mail message is displayed. In this particular example the e mail message includes a link to a website that is recommended to the recipient of the e mail. Referring to which uses previously used designators the user has hovered their cursor over or near the link as shown at . Responsive to hovering their cursor the e mail client application can issue a Get request to retrieve a site index file or site map associated with the link. Responsive to receiving the site index file or site map a drop down menu can be presented to the user in which various levels associated with the link can be displayed for the user. The user can then in much the same way as described above navigate through or receive additional information associated with the various levels to access content associated with the link or website.

Having considered the various embodiments that can utilize the functionality provided by the auto complete module consider now an example method can be implemented in accordance with one or more embodiments.

Step receives a user action associated with a website. Any suitable user action can be used. For example in at least some embodiments a user action can include entering text into a suitably configured text area. One example of a suitably configured text area is an address bar. Other text areas can include by way of example and not limitation a favorites bar a search bar and the like. In embodiments in which a user enters text the user action can further include entering a text character of a particular type. In the address bar example above such character comprises a character. Any suitable character however can be used. Alternately or additionally a user action can include hovering a cursor over or near an associated link. It is to be appreciated and understood however that any suitable user action can be used. For example in at least some embodiments a voice based embodiment can support user actions that include audibly providing as by speaking into a suitably configured input device an input such as a URL.

Step generates responsive to the user action a request for a site index file or site map. Any suitable request can be utilized. In at least some embodiments the request can be generated in accordance with standard protocols. One example of such a request is an HTTP Get request. Step sends the request to the website.

Step receives the request and step returns the site index file or site map to the client application.

Step receives the site index file or site map and step renders a presentation describing the website s content. Any suitable presentation can be used for describing the website s content. In at least some embodiments the presentation can reside in the form of a display that can reside in the form of a drop down menu. Other displays can be utilized without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter. Alternately or additionally the presentation can comprise an audible presentation such as a verbalization of the returned website content.

In at least some embodiments steps can be repeated for subsequently presenting deeper content within the web site.

Having described an example method in accordance with one or more embodiments consider now an example system that can be utilized to implement one or more of the above described embodiments.

Computing device includes one or more processors or processing units one or more memory and or storage components one or more input output I O devices and a bus that allows the various components and devices to communicate with one another. Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. Bus can include wired and or wireless buses.

Memory storage component represents one or more computer storage media. Component can include volatile media such as random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media such as read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and so forth . Component can include fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk and so forth .

One or more input output devices allow a user to enter commands and information to computing device and also allow information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone a scanner and so forth. Examples of output devices include a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card and so forth.

Various techniques may be described herein in the general context of software or program modules. Generally software includes routines programs objects components data structures and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available medium or media that can be accessed by a computing device. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media .

 Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

Various embodiments utilize an auto complete module to expose a website s content structure. In at least some embodiments a user can take an action within an application and responsively the auto complete module can retrieve a site index file or site map and use the site index file or site map to display the website s content structure. In at least some embodiments a website s content structure can be displayed without navigating to the particular website.

In at least some embodiments the auto complete module can utilize standard protocols such as HTTP protocols to retrieve the site index file or site map.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

