---

title: Systems and methods for reading a security clearance card
abstract: The security clearance card, system, and method include a card that stores data to verify the identity of an owner of the card. In addition to other types of information, the card stores biometric data of the owner and other identity data. Different portions of the data may be encrypted with different encryption techniques based upon a predetermined level of security assigned to the portions of the stored data. Reader elements are then capable of reading at least a portion of the encrypted data stored on the security clearance card, and receiving at least one biometric from an individual. The biometric stored in the card is then compared with the biometric of the individual presenting the security clearance card to verify that the holder of the card is the owner of the card.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07762456&OS=07762456&RS=07762456
owner: Digital Data Research Company
number: 07762456
owner_city: Altamonte Springs
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080205
---
This application claims priority to and is a continuation of U.S. application. Ser. No. 11 539 703 entitled Security Clearance Card System and Method of Reading A Security Clearance Card filed Oct. 9 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 344 068 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 272 464 entitled Security Clearance Card System and Method of Reading a Security Clearance Card filed Oct. 16 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 137 553 which claims priority to the following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 365 068 entitled Security System Having Improvements filed Mar. 14 2002 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 361 458 entitled CD ID A Low Cost Solution to Secure ID and Data Storage filed Mar. 4 2002 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 344 658 entitled Automatic Identity Verification System filed Dec. 31 2001 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth herein in their entirety.

The present invention is related to security systems in general and more specifically directed to a security system that uses security clearance cards with increased storage space and increased security for information store thereon and a security system that selectively controls access to data on the card by different card readers and operators as well as selective controlled access to different portions of a facility by a cardholder.

Most companies and governmental entities use security systems to control access to facilities data etc. Access is typically controlled through the use of security clearance cards and or password access. Many conventional security systems are electronically operated through the use of card readers biometric scanners and the like. Further many conventional security systems are network based. Specifically these systems use a centralized data server that contains security access codes and data related to personnel allowed access to a facility data etc. such as a security identification number associated with the personnel and or stored biometrics associated with the personnel. In general these conventional security systems operate in a centralized networked mode which can slow access decision making. Further the clearance cards used in these systems may be rudimentary in that they only include tokens used to identify data associated with the user located in the server or the cards may include processors and memory that may be easily compromised. Conventional security systems also typically do not include complex decision making concerning access to facilities and locations. Specifically most systems only use a standard entry no entry decision making and do not allow for dynamic alteration of access criteria. Finally many conventional security systems do not have the ability to limit access to different levels of information stored on a security clearance card by different security readers and security employees. These issues are discussed more fully below.

Security clearance cards are typically issued to individuals who have been approved to access a particular location object information electronic media and or any other tangible or intangible item to which access is limited. For example organizations that include items to which access is restricted usually issue security clearance cards to those individuals who the organization deems authorized to access the items. The security clearance cards therefore may carry some type of information indication and or means that permit the person carrying the card to access one or more restricted items For example a card may include visual information so that a security guard or other personnel may visually inspect the card to ensure that the card is valid and or the card may include information that allows automated access to the restricted item.

Usually individuals must undergo some type of background check prior to issuance of a security clearance card such as by providing evidence of their identity i.e. a birth certificate proof of address drivers license social security card visa passport and or any other information that demonstrates the individual s identity. In addition individuals may have to provide detailed information regarding their background such as education prior jobs affiliations and or any other information regarding the individual s history that is pertinent to the particular type of background check. Once the desired information regarding the individual is accumulated it may be verified in whatever manner is acceptable to the organization to ensure that the information is valid.

Some conventional security cards may include bar codes magnetic strips and or other similar type s of data storage devices for encoding data associated with the individual to whom the card is issued. The cards may also include other types of data in addition to the basic identity and access data described above.

In some security systems a biometric of the cardholder is used for verification. In these systems one or more biometrics of the cardholder such as a fingerprint a retina scan a voice sample DNA sample or the like are taken of the cardholder and stored on a centralized database of the security system. A token or other identifier is then stored on the card in the form of a bar code or similar encoded device. In operation when the holder presents the card to a card reader the token associated with a biometric is read. The security system uses the token to then poll the network database to retrieve the token associated with the holder. Further the holder also has their biometric scanned with a biometric scanner connected to the security system. The security system compares the scanned biometric taken from the scanner with the stored biometric taken from the card to determine whether the person presenting the card is the registered cardholder.

As mentioned the biometric identifier is typically not stored directly in the security card. Instead a token is stored in the card and the token provides the information necessary to query a remote database in which the biometric identifier associated with the owner of the card is stored. Therefore a card reader may read the token stored in the card and then query the appropriate remote database based upon the instructions provided by the token. In this instance the card reader must be in continuous or semi continuous communication with the remote database in order to verify the cardholder. In other words the comparison of the stored biometric with a scanned biometric is dependent upon the card reader s capability to communicate with the remote database. In addition the integrity of the stored biometric is dependent upon the integrity of the remote database. The biometric comparison may easily be jeopardized because communication between the card reader and the remote database may be blocked and or the remote database may become intentionally or inadvertently corrupted. Further there may be added delay associated with polling and retrieving the biometric from the remote database. Also the requirement of a network connection for card readers may not be practical for instances where the security system is used at a remotely located security checkpoint.

Another disadvantage of many conventional security card systems is storage capacity. The amount of data that can be stored in these conventional cards may be limited by the amount of data that may be encoded into the bar code magnetic strip and or others similar type s of data storage means printed on the face of the card.

Recently business cards have been developed that use a CD ROM for data storage. These business cards include a CD ROM that has been shaped to resemble a card. Located on a surface of the CD ROM is business data related to the card owner such as name title company address phone number etc. These business cards are advantageous as they allow for added storage of data on the CD ROM. For instance CD ROM cards have been utilized to store data about a company associated with the card owner. This data can be viewed by a recipient of the business card via a conventional CD ROM player.

Although CD ROM business cards increase the amount of data that can be stored in a card these conventional cards are not suitable for use in a security setting. Specifically while these conventional business cards include information on the front of the card such as name company address etc. and additional marketing information about the company stored on the CD ROM there is typically no information either printed on or stored in the card that verifies to a recipient that the card belongs to the card owner. Therefore if an individual presents a CD ROM card there is no way to ensure that the CD ROM card belongs to that individual or that the data carried by the card is associated with the individual.

Smart cards have also been developed for use in security systems. Smart cards include either an embedded memory or both an embedded memory and a processor. These cards allow for additional data information storage on the security card. Further the processor can be used to perform processing of data stored in the memory. These cards however also may have associated security issues. Specifically smart carts are susceptible to hacking. Once the procedures for reading and writing to the memory of the smart card are determined the security data on the card can be easily accessed and changed. As such the card could be either compromised or altered for used by a non authorized person.

In addition to the shortcomings associated with conventional security clearance cards there are also some shortcomings with the security systems themselves. One issue is limiting data access. Specifically it may be desirable to include a wide range of data on a security card where some of the data is more sensitive than other portions of the data. For example in addition to data for verifying the cardholder the card may also include personal data about the cardholder such as financial medical and criminal records. In these instances it is important to limit access to the personal data while at the same time allowing access to data for verifying the owner of the card. Unfortunately for many conventional security cards this is not possible. There typically is no way to ensure that personnel operating a card reader cannot access all of the data stored on the card. Therefore typically anyone capable of reading the card is authorized to view all of the data stored on the card which may limit the type of data a card owner will be willing to store on the card unless the only person accessing the data carried by the card is the owner of the card.

An additional problem with many conventional security systems is flexibility in deciding who does and who does not have access to a facility or data or anything else to which security is required. Specifically many conventional systems operate on go no go decision making. The list of those allowed access to a certain facility data etc. is hard coded in the system and cannot be altered dynamically. For example an individual may originally have authorization to access one portion of a facility but not another portion of the facility. For many conventional security systems the list of individuals provided access to the second portion of the facility will have to be manually updated with the individual s information and then provided to the card reader or security gate at the second portion of the facilities entrance. This can be time consuming especially in situations where the list of individuals allowed access to a facility is altered on a regular basis.

In light of these shortcomings in the prior art there is a need for a security card that is capable of carrying large amounts of data while also providing means for verifying the identity of an owner of the card. Cards are also needed that are less tamper proof and provide added data security. In addition there is a need for such a card that limits access to different levels of data stored on the card based on the security level of the individual attempting to gain access to the information. Needs also exist for security systems that do not require constant connection to a network to verify security information as well as security systems that allow for dynamic updating of information related to who is allowed access to facilities.

The present invention remedies the above mentioned as well as many other concerns noted in the prior art. Many of the advantages of the security system of the present invention are summarized below and detailed later.

The present invention provides a security system that uses a security clearance card having significant data storage capacity while also providing different features for verifying the identity of the card owner. Further the security clearance card of the present invention provides a self contained security check system such that the card reader of the security system used to verify the card does not require a constant network connection.

Specifically the security system of the present invention provides a security clearance card capable of storing multiple portions of data. At least one biometric identifier of the owner of the card is stored in at least one of the data portions. Other data portions may include a wide variety of information about the cardholder such as a profile of the holder banking records of the holder criminal record etc. In addition each data portion may be associated with a security level such that different types of data may have a different level of security.

The data portions may be stored in different ways depending on the type of security card used. For example a security card comprising a CD ROM may be used in which case the data is stored in the CD ROM. The card may additionally or alternatively include a data storage medium located on the surface of the card such as a bar code hologram etc. that stores the data. Further the security clearance card of the present invention may be embodied in a smart card where the data is stored in the memory portion of the card.

As mentioned the security clearance card of the present invention includes stored therein at least one biometric of the cardholder. This allows the security system associated with the card to operate independent of a network. Specifically the security system of this embodiment will include a device for reading the card and a device for scanning a biometric of the user. In operation a biometric of the user is scanned and the previously stored biometric of the cardholder is retrieved either from the data stored in the card in the case of a CD ROM or smart card or from the storage media on the face of the card in the case of a bar code or hologram stored on the face off the card. The stored and scanned biometric are then compared to verify that the individual presenting the card is the owner of the card. By placing the biometric data on the security clearance card itself the security system is not required to poll a remote database located on a network to retrieve this data.

This provides several advantages. First biometric data for all cardholders are not required to be stored all on the same central database where the data for all cardholders may be compromised stolen or otherwise corrupted. Further the security clearance card of the present invention does not require transmission of secure data over a network where the data may be intercepted. Further it allows security checkpoints to be either fully or partly free of a network connection such that the checkpoints are self contained and can be located at remote locations.

As mentioned the security clearance cards of the present invention typically include a wide variety of data stored thereon related to the cardholder or associated with the cardholder. In addition to data used to verify the owner of the card such as biometric data the security card may include information data concerning the cardholder. This data may include general data about the user but may also include more security sensitive data such as financial data medical data criminal records etc. Given the wide range of data that can be located on the card it is important to limit access to the data. In light of this the data stored on the security card of the present invention is stored under different levels. Access to these levels is then restricted from being viewed by others. Different levels of access are assigned to operators and or devices in the security system of the present invention such that the data can only be read by those who have been designated to view data appearing at certain levels.

The security system of the present invention may also allow for data read from a security clearance card to be passed to other devices in the security system. Specifically the clearance security card may include data stored under different levels that are restricted in terms of access. A card reader may scan all of the data from the card but only be able to read certain portions of the data due to limited security access. Other portions of the data however may be passed to other devices in the security system which are capable of reading the other levels of restricted data. In this manner data from the card can be retrieved by the card reader and although not understandable by the card reader can be passed to other devices at higher levels of security which have authority to read the data.

As an example a card reader may only have access to data on the card needed to verify the holder of card and allow access to a facility. However portions of the data related to the holder s police record may be read by the card reader and although not decipherable the card reader forwarded to another device connected to the reader where it can be viewed to determine whether the person presents a security risk.

A log of events related to the card may also be stored in the card. For example a log of the modifications and additions to the data portions the creation of the card and or the biometrics received from holders of the card may be stored in the card. This audit log enables security personnel to track use of the card as well as possible breaches or attempts at breaching the security of the card.

The security clearance card of the present invention may also allow for storage of information related to start dates verification dates etc. Specifically the card may include an expiration date that can be read via the card reader. If the card has exceeded the selected expiration date the holder will be denied access. This is important to guard against theft of the card. Despite the fact that the card has been stolen the card can only be used for a limited time. Further a start date may be included on the card. The start defines a time when the card will become valid. Use of the card prior to the start date will be denied by the security system. An origination date may also be stored on the card. This origination date could be used in a scheme in which encryption methods used to encrypt data on cards is changed from time to time. Specifically for a range of dates cards produced during those dates may be encrypted using one method while a separate method is used for another range of dates. When the card is read the origination date is also read. Based on the origination date the card reader will know which encryption scheme to use to read the data from the card.

To guard the integrity of the data the security system of the present invention typically but does not always use a write once read many times procedure for storing data on the card. The write once read many times procedure prevents overwriting of the security data on the card which might be attempted by someone seeking to gain fraudulent access using the card.

The data on the card may be encrypted with at least one of a variety of encryption techniques. In particular different portions of the data may be encrypted with different encryption techniques based upon the level of security assigned to the portions of the stored data. The encryption techniques may include a variety of algorithms that are utilized to encrypt at least a portion of the data stored on the card. For example the algorithms may be block cipher encryption algorithms.

The security system of the present invention also allows for dynamic changes to the list of those allowed access to a certain locations of a facility data etc. Specifically via a network the list of individuals allowed access to a particular location can be altered or otherwise updated remotely and stored with the card reader. When a card is scanned by the reader and the holder has been verified the card reader can access the list and determine whether the holder of the card has been designated as someone having access to the facility. If the holder is not on the list access to the facility is denied.

As an alternative the security level of the secure location may be altered thereby changing the list of card owners allowed access. For example if the secure location had a first security level that only allowed access to a small number of card owners the security level associated with the secure location can be lowered thereby allowing access to more card owners.

The present inventions now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed these inventions may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The present invention provides a security clearance card that remedies many of the above mentioned concerns with the prior art. Specifically the present invention provides a security clearance card to allow for significant data storage capacity while also providing different features for verifying the identity of the card owner. In addition the security clearance card of the present invention in conjunction with a card reader is capable of associating portions of the data stored on the card with various security levels and limiting the amount of data a card reader and or an operator of the card reader may view and or access.

The present invention relates generally to a security system that is capable of verifying the identity of individuals desiring access to restricted information locations or other tangible or intangible items. One embodiment of a security system of the present invention is shown in but many other embodiments and applications of the security system may be created many of which are explained in detail herein below. For example an individual may desire to enter door . The individual may present a security clearance card which may be read by the card reader . The card reader is also capable of receiving biometric data from the individual and comparing that biometric data with the biometric data stored on the card which is associated with the owner of the card. Via a monitor an operator of the card reader may then view the results of the biometric comparison and the portion of the data stored on the card that the operator is authorized to access. If the biometric of the individual matches the biometric stored on the card and if the data accessed by the operator matches the data necessary to permit a card owner to enter door then the individual may be permitted to access door . On the other hand if the biometric of the individual does not match the biometric stored on the card and or if the data accessed by the operator does not match the data necessary to permit a card owner to enter door then the individual is denied access door . Alternatively the comparison of the scanned biometrics of the card owner and the biometrics stored on the card can be compared electronically via a computer or specialized processor.

The card may include identity data field data and any extra data of interest. The identity data includes any type of data that may be used to verify that the holder of the card is indeed the owner of the card. For instance identity data may include but is not limited to the name address and date of birth of the owner of the card. The identity data may also include at least one biometric of the owner of the card.

The field data can be any type of more detailed data regarding the owner of the card and or an item for which the card owner is responsible. For example the field data may include but is not limited to the drivers license number drivers license restrictions voter information and employment information for the owner of the card and or a history of the item information for utilizing the item or any other type of information regarding the item for which the card owner is responsible. The field data may have multiple levels and each level may be associated with a different level of security. For instance basic employment information such as the name and address of the card owner s employer may be located in a first level of field data while the card owner s personnel records may be associated with the basic employment information but located in one or more higher level s of field data which are more secure than the first level. In addition the field data may include highly classified data which has the highest level of security. The highly classified data may include but is not limited to the internal controls of the card and the at least one biometric of the owner of the card.

The extra data may be any other type of data that the owner of the card desires to store in the card. For instance the extra data may be documents files charts or other form of data. The extra data may also be assigned levels of security if desired.

The data is typically divided into data portions or packets as known to those skilled in the art. Each data portion may be associated with one of a variety of security levels and each data portion may be compressed encoded and or encrypted as discussed herein below. For purposes of simplicity data portions may be referred to as data herein.

The owner of the card is the individual whose identity data is stored in the card. The field data and or extra data stored in the card may be associated with the owner of the card. Alternatively the field data and or extra data may be associated with something tangible or intangible for which the owner of the card is responsible. For instance the field and or extra data stored on a card may be associated with a ship container an organization an idea electronic media or other type of object tangible or intangible and the owner of the card may be any person responsible for the object. In addition in some embodiments of the card for verifying the identity of an owner of the card there may be more than one owner of the card . In this instance there is identity data stored in the card associated with each owner.

As briefly described above the identity data stored in the card may take any form and be any selected data used to identify the owner or owners of the card. For example biometric data concerning the card owner may be stored in the card. The biometric data may be any type of biometric identifier known to those skilled in the art. For example the biometric identifier may be one or more of fingerprints retina scans voice samples DNA samples a combination of two or more of these or any other type of biometric. The biometric data may be stored in the card in a location that may be easily accessed anytime the card is presented for verification of the identity of the owner of the card such that the stored biometric may be compared to the biometric of the person presenting the card as described more fully herein below. In addition the biometric data may be stored in a highly classified portion of the card to which access is strictly limited such that the integrity of the biometric data is preserved. In addition the easily accessible biometric data may be compared to the highly classified biometric data to ensure that the accuracy of the easily accessible biometric data has not been compromised.

If the biometric of the person presenting the card also called the holder of the card matches a biometric identifier stored in the card then the person presenting the card may be permitted to perform an action granted access to a place or a thing able to utilize any of the data stored in the card and or any other type of function that is permitted by the data stored in the card. If the biometric of the person presenting the card does not match the biometric identifier stored in the card however then the person presenting the card may be denied any type of function that would otherwise be permitted to the owner of the card.

The CD ROM may be any type of CD storage element known to those skilled in the art. Typically the CD ROM is in the shape of the card with the center of the CD ROM at the center of the card . As such the card may be placed in a CD ROM reader where the CD ROM portion of the card may be read as described in detail herein below. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention data that is stored in the CD ROM may only be read by those accessing the CD ROM the data cannot be removed changed or modified. The data written to the CD ROM is permanently stored in the CD ROM. As such new data may be written to the CD ROM but the old data remains in the CD ROM also. This type of CD ROM is typically referred to as a CDR. A CDR is advantageous in the security clearance card of the present invention because it ensures that a permanent record of all of the data stored in the card is kept for future reference. CDR is sometimes referred to a write once read many. In addition the CD ROM may also include an audit trail containing the location and identity of the operator who stored the original data as well as any operator who stored subsequent data in the CD ROM. As such if there is ever a question about the data stored in a card then the origins of the data and the circumstances under which the data was written can easily be obtained from the card. This type of data storage is therefore much more secure and tamperproof than the prior art techniques for storing data such as the microprocessor based smart card that do not provide capabilities to prevent tampering with the data stored in the card.

It must be understood that other data writing procedures may be used. In other embodiments of the present invention such as those embodiments that do not warrant such tight security for the data stored in the cards a CD ROM that permits written data to be deleted changed or modified in addition to being read may be used. This type of CD ROM is typically referred to as a CDRW.

With regard to the data storage medium may be located anywhere on the card so long as it does not obstruct the CD ROM portion of the card. For instance the data storage medium is typically printed in an encoded format on at least one side of the card as shown in . For purposes of this application encoded data refers to a general electronic data format for storage on the card . Accordingly encoded is not equivalent to encrypted which is defined as altering the data such that only authorized parties may access it. The data included in the data storage medium is encoded using any technique known to those skilled in the art such that the data may be utilized by a reader that is capable of decoding the data as described in further detail herein below. For example the data storage medium may be encoded in a barcode such as a PDF 417 barcode. Alternatively the data storage medium may be stored in a hologram a series of coded dots a graphic image magnetic strip etc. Similar to the CDR discussion above a barcode or other type of indicia that cannot be changed easily is an advantageous technique for storing data because the data and the circumstances surrounding the creation of the data are permanently stored in the card for future reference.

In addition to biometric data and any other data stored in the card the CD ROM and or data storage medium may contain a digital photograph of the owner of the card. The photograph can be utilized as a further check that the person presenting the card is the owner of the card because when the card is read by a card reader as described in detail herein below an operator may access the picture of the owner of the card and visually compare the picture to the person presenting the card. Alternatively a card reader may take an image of the person presenting the card such as with a camera or the like and then compare that image to the picture of the card owner. Thus the digital photograph is typically stored in the CD ROM and or in the data storage medium portion of the card as identity data but it may also be stored as part of the field data. In other embodiments of the card of the present invention an image of the owner of the card may be included on a face of the card as shown in . The image may be in addition to or as an alternative to the image stored in the CD ROM and or data storage medium portion of the card .

The card also may include any other type of data on the face of the card such as the name telephone number and or title of the owner of the card in addition to the expiration and or validity date of the card as shown in area of the embodiment of one face of the card illustrated in .

Importantly as illustrated in the present invention provides a security clearance card in which is stored several different types of identity data for verifying the owner of the card. The owner verification process is further described below along with various aspects of an overall security system also called identity verification system herein for creating the cards and for maintaining security and access via the cards.

A first aspect is the gathering and storage of data related to the owner for use in creating the security clearance card. Specifically to store the desired data in the card such as the CD ROM and or data storage medium portion of the card an operator of an identity verification system receives identity data from a prospective owner of the card and stores that data in a database. Any type of database known to those skilled in the art may be utilized and the database may be accessed via any appropriate protocol. In one embodiment of the identity verification system of the present invention the database may be relational and the database may be accessed via Open Database Connectivity ODBC standard protocols. The database may be local to the operator s location or it may be remote and in communication with the operator s location via a network conventional or wireless such as a local area network wide area network Intranet and or the Internet.

The data may be obtained from the prospective owner of the card in any manner known to those skilled in the art. For example the prospective owner of the card may present documentation such as a birth certificate proof of address drivers license passport visa or other official documentation to the operator. Once the operator establishes that the information provided by the prospective owner of the card belongs to that individual by any manner that has been established as acceptable then the operator may create a record such as a file in the database that includes the verified identity data associated with the prospective owner of the card. The record also may include an expiration date associated with the card such that the card will be invalid after the expiration date and or a validity date associated with the card designating some future date when the card will become valid. A permanent or long term security clearance card having no expiration date or an expiration date that is years away may be generated for owners of cards that store various types of long term identity and field data. For examples in certain embodiments of the security clearance card of the present invention drivers license information voter registration information employment information and other types of long term information may be included in the field data carried by the card. Thus once all of the in formation to be included in the card is verified a permanent or long term card may be issued to the owner of the card. Alternatively for short term applications such as for short term visitors to office buildings short term visitors to a country and or during the time information is being verified for a permanent or long term card a temporary security clearance card may be issued which may include only the identity and or field data necessary for the short term application of the card.

To create a record in the database the operator enters the identity data into the database via an interface which may be any type of computer processing element and or data entry element that is in communication with the database and or a network or the like that is in communication with the database such as a database in located in the control center as shown in . For example in one embodiment of the identity verification system of the present inventions the operator interface may be a computer utilizing any modern operating system such as a Microsoft Windows or Unix operating systems. Other information may also be included in the record depending upon the future application of the card the requirements of the particular identity verification system or any other reason. If the operator cannot establish that the information provided by the prospective owner of the card belongs to that individual then the individual may be denied a security clearance card issued a temporary card that is valid only until the verification can be performed and or further information may be requested of the individual.

The prospective owner of the card also submits at least one biometric for storage in the database record. For instance in one embodiment of the identity verification system of the present invention the prospective owner of the card may submit at least one fingerprint via a fingerprint scanner that is in communication with the operator s interface to the database. The fingerprint scanner may be any type of scanner known to those skilled in the art. In one embodiment of the identity verification system of the present invention the fingerprint scanner is a SecureTouch PC scanner commercially available from Biometric Access Corporation BAC . The biometric s such as images of the individual s fingerprints then may be transmitted to the operator s interface from the scanner. The biometric s may be analyzed and or prepared for storage in any manner known to those skilled in the art via the operator s interface. For instance if the biometrics are images of fingerprints feature templates may be extracted from the images utilizing BAC software or any other type of software known to those skilled in the art. The feature templates eliminate the extraneous data from the image to facilitate the comparison of the biometric images.

Biometrics other than or in addition to fingerprints may be used. For example retinal or facial scans DNA or voice samples heartbeats characteristics etc. of the owner of the card may be taken and stored. These various biometrics may then be used either independently or in combination to verify the owner of the security clearance card.

One or more images of the prospective owner of the card may also be captured for inclusion in the database record. The image s may be digital or any other type of photograph. If an image is digital it may be directly transmitted to the operator s interface and the database. If an image is not digital however it may be scanned into a digital format as known to those skilled in the art or otherwise transformed into a format that is capable of being transmitted to the operator s interface and the database. To capture the prospective card owner s image the operator s interface may be in communication with any type of image capture device known to those skilled in the art.

In one embodiment of the identity verification system of the present invention the prospective card owner s image may be captured with any TWAIN compliant image capture device. TWAIN is computer hardware and software both for defining a standard protocol and Application Programming Interface API for communication between software application and image application devices and is commercially available from the Twain working Group. Once an image of the prospective card owner is captured the image may be transmitted to the operator s interface via TWAIN or any other technique known to those skilled in the art. The image may then be analyzed and or prepared for storage in the card in any manner known to those skilled in the art via the operator s interface. For example the operator may crop the image or otherwise prepare the image to be stored in the database and or the card.

In addition the biometric s image s and or others identity data captured from the individual may be prepared in a format that is compatible with existing law enforcement databases of stored biometrics images and other identity data. As such the captured biometrics images and or other identity data may be compared to the appropriate law enforcement database s to obtain law enforcement information regarding the individual if any. Furthermore the biometric s image s and or other identity data captured from the individual may be transmitted to the appropriate law enforcement databases to add to or update the law enforcement databases if desired. In these embodiments of the identity verification system of the present invention the operator interface and or the database is in communication with the law enforcement databases via a network conventional or wireless such as a wide area network.

For example in one embodiment of the identity verification system of the present invention the operator interface and or the database is in communication with the Automatic Fingerprint Identification Systems AFIS belonging to various State and or Federal law enforcement agencies. As such when one or more fingerprints are obtained from an individual attempting to obtain a security clearance card the fingerprints may be transmitted to the AFIS for comparison with the fingerprints on record. This procedure also permits another technique for verifying the identity of a prospective card owner by matching the transmitted biometric s and or image s to existing biometrics and or images in the law enforcement databases and determining whether the individual associated with any matching existing biometric and or image is the same as the individual submitting biometric s and or image s to the operator.

Another important aspect of the security clearance card of the present invention is the ability to store the data related to the identity of the card owner on the card itself. Specifically once the operator has entered the record into the database or while the operator is entering the record into the database all or at least a portion of the data contained in the record may be stored in the card such as the storage medium in the card e.g. CD ROM smart card memory etc. and or the data storage medium portion of the security clearance card .

Importantly in some embodiments to make the card a self contained system at least the portion of the record that includes the biometric may be stored in or on the card. This allows the security system to verify the owner of the card without having to retrieve data from a network database.

In addition to receiving verifying and storing identity data as described above the operator may also receive verify and store field data and extra data into the security clearance card. As mentioned above the field data may include any type of information that various applications of the card may require. In addition the field data may be separated based upon the level of security that is assigned to each type of data included in the field data. The various embodiments of the security clearance cards of the present invention may include various combinations of types of field data. For example the field data associated with an individual may include driver s license information voter registration information employment information bank account information and any other type of information desired. In other embodiments of the security clearance cards of the present invention the field data may be associated with an object tangible or intangible . For instance if the field data is associated with a vehicle the field data may include information regarding what and or whom the vehicle is carrying the history of the travels of the vehicle and any other information associated with the vehicle or its operations.

Each of the types of field data may be assigned various levels of security and the data within each type of field data also may have various levels of security assigned to it. As explained further herein below due to the levels of security that are assigned to each type of field data and within each type of field data each person that is capable of reading the card will only be able to access the data that is directly applicable for the particular application. For example a lower level of data may include the card owner s name and possibly a digital picture of the owner. Higher level security data may include the owner s personal information such as address account numbers etc. Still further higher level security data may include more sensitive information. A limitation of conventional systems is that all of this data is typically accessible by anyone who scans the card regardless of the sensitivity of the data. The present invention however alleviates this problem by ensuring that a particular card reader and or operator of a card reader may only read a certain level or levels of data as described in detail herein below.

Not only are the identity field and or other data stored in the card but also the circumstances of the card creation and data storage are also stored in the card referred to herein as creation data . For example when an operator stores the data in the card the operator s identity information may be stored in the card. The identity of the equipment used to store the card owner s data in the card and to produce the card may also be stored in the card. Furthermore the identity of any server or database from which any of the card owner s data was obtained processed or stored may be stored in the card. The creation date and any other type of information regarding the creation of the card and storage of the data in the card can also be included in the data stored in the card. Thus all of the information needed to trace the creation of the card and the storage of data on the card may be stored directly in the card such that it is immediately accessible if any issues regarding the card arise. Having all of the data including the creation data stored directly on the card without having to access a separate database for any of the data greatly increases the speed and security of the security system of the present invention as compared to conventional security systems that depend upon separate databases for much of the data utilized by the system.

In addition because the security clearance card of the present invention may include not only a CD ROM portion but also an data storage medium portion as described above access to certain data may further be restricted based upon the location of the data the type of card reader and or the identity of an operator of the card reader. For example in one embodiment of the present invention a lower security level of data may be located in the data storage medium portion printed on the front of the card while higher level security data may be located in the CD ROM portion . A particular card reader may include only a reader for the data storage medium such as a bar code reader magnetic strip reader or the like such that the only data the card reader may access is the data stored in the data storage medium located on the face of the card. Furthermore in the example described above a particular operator may be authorized to access only the lower security level of data and as such the operator may be capable of operating a reader for the data storage medium portion of the card only. Thus including different types of storage medium in the card provides a further security feature for the cards that conventional security clearance cards do not posses.

Furthermore the security clearance card of the present invention is capable of carrying large amounts of various types of data and all of the information required for identity verification and any other applicable data is contained in the security clearance card of the present invention. No need exists to access a centralized database for the biometric data with which to compare the biometric of the person presenting the card or any other data that a reader of the card may require. As such the card in conjunction with a card reader as described in detail herein below is a lower cost more efficient and more reliable technique for verifying the identity of the owners of security clearance cards than conventional techniques.

In addition to providing a security clearance card having various features for verifying the identity of the card owner the security verification system provides various features used to ensure the security of the data stored in the card. Each of these features are discussed below under separate headings.

The data including the biometric data and optionally the photo stored in the card such as in the CD ROM and or the data storage medium may be compressed in any manner known to those skilled in the art. For instance the data may be digitally compressed with syntactic compression a dictionary based compression such as TextComp compression commercially available by Digital Data Research Company and or any type of arithmetic compression. By utilizing a compression scheme to compress the data stored in the card the maximum amount of data may be carried by the card.

As described above the data stored in the card is typically stored in portions or packets to further facilitate compression of the data stored in the card. The data portions may be arranged in any manner known to those skilled in the art. For example the data portions may be arranged in fixed field locations which provide efficient storage and processing aspects but create difficulty when changes to the data portions occur. In other embodiments of the present invention the data may be arranged by the inclusion of linguistic artifacts such as field identifiers end of record marks and or syntactic and semantic artifacts. This technique is desirable because it provides flexibility in modifications to the data portions. Any other appropriate arrangement technique may be utilized depending upon the requirements of the particular application of the card .

The data including the biometric data and optionally the photo stored in the card such as the CD ROM and or the data storage medium may be encrypted in any manner known to those skilled in the art. In one embodiment of the card of the present invention the data may be compressed as described above prior to encryption. In alternative embodiments of the card of the present invention the data may be encrypted without being compressed.

Any type of encryption technique known to those skilled in the art may be utilized to encrypt the data stored in the card. For example any type of encryption algorithm may be used to encrypt the data and the encryption may include a key. If the encryption includes a key the key contents and size may periodically change. Thus various types of encryption techniques may be created depending upon the number and type of encryption algorithm utilized whether a key is utilized with the algorithm and if so the content and size of the key. The encryption algorithm may be dynamically generated block cipher encryption algorithms.

The encryption technique s utilized for a single card or a set of cards may be referred to as the encryption cocktail. Thus various types of encryption cocktails may be created such that each card or each set of cards has a different encryption cocktail. The different encryption cocktails are therefore unique encryption structures particular to the card or set or sets of cards. For example a card or set of cards utilized to access one company s building will utilize a different encryption cocktail than the card or set of cards utilized to access another company s building. This type of encryption assignment creates a very secure environment because even if the encryption structure for one card or set of cards is determined the security of other cards or sets of cards is maintained which is unlike the prior art security systems particularly those that utilize microprocessor cards.

In addition more than one type of encryption technique may be utilized to encrypt different portions of the data stored on the card. Thus a different encryption technique may be assigned to the various types of data stored in the card depending for instance upon the level of security that is assigned to the data and or upon the sensitivity of the data. For example each of the various levels of security that are assigned to the identity field data and or extra data that is stored in the card as described hereinabove may be assigned a different encryption technique. This configuration in conjunction with the assignment of the capability to read only a certain type of encryption or encryptions to potential readers of the data stored in the card ensures that the person reading the card is permitted to read and or access only the portions of the data stored in the card that are appropriate for the application associated with the reader.

As mentioned previously a security clearance card may include various levels of data. For example a lower level of data may include the card owner s name and possibly a digital picture of the owner. Higher level security data may include the owner s personal information such as address account numbers etc. Still further higher level security data may include more sensitive information. A limitation of conventional systems is that all of this data is typically accessible by anyone who scans the card regardless of the sensitivity of the data. The present invention however alleviates this problem. Specifically the system of the present invention categorizes data concerning the owner of the card into different security levels and permits access to the data only by the operators of card readers that have the authority to access the particular security level associated with the data.

For example certain card readers and operators or groups of operators of the card readers may access only certain portions of the data stored in the card. The card readers may be capable of decrypting only a certain type or certain types of encryption s which limits the card reader s accessibility to the data encrypted with other types of encryption. Furthermore each operator or group of operators may be associated with the capability to read only the type of encryption for the data that each operator or group of operators is permitted to access. Regardless of whether the card reader and or the operator is authorized to read a certain type of encryption the encrypted data may be read via an encryption reader as shown in .

The identity data field data and or extra data stored in the card may be encrypted with various encryption techniques depending upon the level of security assigned to the particular type of data. For instances in the example described in the operator may be associated with the capability to read only the encryption of the first level of data such as a portion of the identity data stored in the card while the operator s manager s may be associated with the capability to read not only the encryption of the first level of data but also the encryption s of at least a portions of the data assigned a higher level of security which may aide the manager s in assessing the risk presented to the organization by an owner of a card. In other embodiments of the security system of the present invention the basic identity data such as the name address and biometric of the owner of the card may be unencrypted while all of the other identity field and or extra data is encrypted. Thus some card readers and or operators may not be associated with the capability to read any type of encryption such that only the basic identity data may be accessed without the possibility of accessing any encrypted data.

Furthermore the encryption technique s may be linked to the biometric of the owner of the card. As such the data carried by the card may only be unencrypted by a reader as explained in detail herein below if the biometric of the person presenting the card matches the biometric of the owner of the card that is stored in at least the CD ROM portion of the card . In addition by linking the encryption techniques s for the data stored in the card to the biometric of the owner of the card each encryption technique used for each card is different which adds to the security of the data carried by the card.

In further embodiments of the present invention the encryption technique s may be linked to the creation data stored in the card. Thus the encryption of the data stored in each card is different based upon the different circumstances of creation associated with each card.

The various encryption techniques described above provide a very secure environment for storing the sensitive security card data. In addition even if the encryption cocktail for one card is discovered in an unauthorized manner only one card is jeopardized. Conventional security clearance cards in which all of the cards have the same security structure in the card or in a database such as microprocessor cards smart cards and the like have a much different situation because if the security structure for the cards and or the database is discovered then the security of all or a large portion of the cards has been jeopardized.

Because each card may potentially utilize different arrangements of the data as described under the Compression heading and different data encryption techniques the data arrangement and encryption utilized in each card must be communicated to the card readers in some manner so that the card readers are able to find and read the appropriate positions of data stored in the card. In one embodiment of the security system of the present invention a database and or tabular method may be used to record the arrangement encryption and any other information associated with the data portions. The database and or table may be stored in the card . In addition each data portion stored in a card may be assigned an ID number that may be used to look up the information regarding the data portion in the database and or table.

When a card reader scans a data portion stored in the card the ID number is extracted from the data portion. The card reader then accesses the database and or table and utilizes the ID number to look up the information regarding the arrangement of the data portion the encryption of the data portion and any other information regarding the data portion. If the card reader and or the operator logged on to the card reader are authorized to decrypt the type of encryption assigned to the data portion then the card reader may read the data portion. Regardless of whether the card reader reads the data portion it then may transmit the data portion to another downstream application as described herein below.

The security verification system of the present invention may further include card readers capable of reading a security clearance card according to the present invention in order to verify the identity of the owner of the card and in certain cases access at least a portion of the identity data field data and or extra data stored in the card. A diagram of one embodiment of a card reader that illustrates some of the functionality of the card reader is shown in . The card reader may include a CD ROM reader that is capable of reading at least portions of the data stored in the CD ROM of the card . In particular the CD ROM reader is capable of reading biometric data of the owner of the card that is stored in the CD ROM portion of the card . In addition the card reader may include a reader that is capable of reading at least some of an data storage medium portion of the card . Thus the reader is capable of decoding at least a portion of the coded data stored in the data storage medium. For example if the data storage medium appearing on the card is a bar code then the card reader of the present invention will include a bar code scanner as the reader.

The card reader of the present invention may further include at least one biometric sensor for accessing a biometric of a holder of a card. The nature of the biometric sensors is dependent upon the type s of biometric that have been selected for scanning. For example one or more of the biometric sensor s may be a finger print scanner a retinal scanner a voice recognition device etc.

The card readers also include a processing element that receives the data from the CD ROM reader the reader biometric sensors and or any other element that is capable of receiving data from the card and or the individual presenting the card. The processing element is capable of comparing the biometric of the owner of the card which is stored in the card with the biometric of the individual presenting the card which is received by the card reader via the appropriate type of biometric sensor . If the comparison results in a difference between the two biometrics that is within a given tolerance then the individual presenting the card is deemed to be the owner of the card by the security system. The tolerance level may be set at any desired value. For instance the tolerance level may be set to a value that prevents any results except perfect matches from indicating the individual presenting the card is deemed to be the owner of the card. Alternatively the tolerance level may be set to a value that allows a certain amount of error between the two biometrics.

If the individual presenting the card is deemed to be the owner of the card then the match indicator may transmit a match indication via a transmitter to the appropriate indicator located on the outside of the card reader . For instance the indicator may be a light emitting diode LED that lights up a particular color to indicate a match or it may be an indication in a display.

The card readers are also capable of maintaining a log of all access attempts Successful and unsuccessful by recording the biometric presented by the individual attempting to gain access. The storage element or log may be stored in a database that is local to the card reader and may be periodically downloaded to a permanent or temporary storage element or it may be purged depending upon the particular application of the card reader. Thus the card readers may be stand alone or may be in communication with at least one remote storage element such as a database via any type of network conventional or wireless such as a local area network a wide area network an intranet and or the Internet as illustrated in . In other embodiments of the present invention the card readers may not be capable of storing a log of access attempts locally even temporarily but may be in communication with a remote storage element such as a database via a network as described above. As such access attempt data may be directly transmitted to the remote storage element at the time of attempt. The log data which includes the submitted biometrics may be analyzed to identify any individuals who are attempting to utilize a security clearance card that does not belong to them. Appropriate action may then be taken against those individuals if necessary.

The card readers may be manned or un manned depending upon the location of the card reader. For example embodiments of the card reader may be conventional computers or other types of devices as illustrated by devices and of . The devices may be stationary or mobile depending upon the particular application of the card reader .

For a manned card reader an operator of the card reader may be required to log on to the card reader which records the identity of the operator. To log on the potential operators of the card reader may be required to submit at least one biometric which may be matched to potential operator biometrics that are stored in and or accessible by the card reader. For instance potential operator biometrics may be stored in a storage element that is separate from the card reader but that is in communication with the card reader. In other embodiments of the card reader potential operator biometrics may be stored in a storage element contained in the card readers such that the card reader is a stand alone device without the need to access any type of remote element. Each time the operator logs onto the card reader the operator may be required to submit at least one biometric that may be compared against biometrics stored in and or accessible by the card reader. If the biometric submitted by the operator matches a biometric stored in and or accessible by the card reader the operator may be permitted to operate the card reader. If the biometric submitted by the operator does not match a biometric stored in and or accessible by the card reader the operator may be denied access to the card reader requested to submit another biometric and or any other function based upon the particular application and or location of the card reader. Here again the card reader may store a log of the biometrics scanned by attempted users of the system for later analysis and determination of those who may be attempting break into the system.

As mentioned previously a security clearance card may include various security levels of data. For example a lower level of data may include the card owner s name and possibly a digital picture of the owner. Higher level security data may include the owner s personal information such as address account numbers etc. Still further higher level security data may include more sensitive information. A limitation of conventional systems is that all of this data is typically accessible by anyone who scans the card regardless of the sensitivity of the data. The present invention however alleviates this problem. Specifically the system of the present invention categorizes information concerning the owner of the card into different security levels and permits access to the information only by card readers and or the operators of card readers that have the authority to access the particular security level associated with the information.

Thus in addition to storing the biometric s of the potential operators of the card readers other data associated with the potential operators or groups of operators of the card readers may also be stored locally in the card reader or in a remote storage element with which the card reader is in communication via any type of network or the like. For example in an embodiment of the present invention information regarding the level of access to the data stored on the card i.e. the identity data the field data and or the extra data as described hereinabove that is assigned to each potential operator or groups of operators of a particular card reader may also be stored where it may be accessed by the card reader. Thus depending upon the identity and or type of the operator logged onto the card reader and based upon the level of access assigned to the operator the card reader may read only certain portions of the data carried by the card.

For example in an embodiment of the identity verification system of the present invention that is located in an airport one operator or group of operators of a card reader such as a guard or guards at the airport entrance may be permitted a level of access that allows the operator to view only a potion of the identity data i.e. biometric name address date of birth and or validity and expiration dates from the data stored in a card As such the guard s can only view the results of the biometric comparison as described hereinabove and view at least a portion of the other identity data regarding the owner of the card. In this embodiment another potential operator or group of operators of the card reader such as an airport manager or managers may be permitted a level of access that allows the manager s to view other portions of the identity data field data and or extra data stored in the card. For example in embodiments of the identity verification system of the present invention the identity data may be compared to a list of identity data for individuals that have been identified as presenting possible threats to airport aircraft safety. If the individual presenting the card matches the list then an airport manager may log onto the card reader which will recognize the airport manager s biometric s as permitting access to further data stored in a card and permit the airport manager to access the portions of the data that may aide the airport manager in assessing the risk presented to the airport aircraft by the particular individual.

In one embodiment of the identity verification system of the present invention certain operators or groups of operators of the card readers may access only certain portions of the data stored in the card by associating each operator or group of operators with the capability to read only the type of encryption for the data that each operator or group of operators is permitted to access via an encryption reader as shown in . As described hereinabove the identity data field data and or extra data stored in the card may be encrypted with various encryption techniques depending upon the level of security assigned to the particular type of data For instance in them example described above the guard s may be associated with the capability to read only the encryption of the identity data or a portion of the identity data carried by the card while the airport manager s may be associated with the capability to read not only the encryption of part or all of the identity data carried by the card but also the encryption s of at least the portions of the field data and or extra data stored in the card that may aide the airport manager s in assessing the risk presented to the airport aircraft by an owner of a card.

In further embodiments of the identity verification system of the present invention certain operators of card readers may have the capability to modify such as change add to and or delete the data stored in the security clearance card . For example the card may include a CD ROM such as a CDRW for storing the identity field and or extra data and an operator may be able to not only read the data stored in the CD ROM but also modify the data by changing deleting and or adding to the data. In other embodiments of the present invention the card may include a CD ROM such as a CDR for storing identity field and or extra data and an operator may be able to read the data only. If the operator is allowed to make modifications to the data stored in the CDR the only modifications involve adding to the data stored in the card without changing or deleting any of the existing data stored in the card. It must be understood that other data writing procedures may be used.

In other embodiments of the present invention such as those embodiments that do not warrant such tight security for the data stored in the cards a CD ROM that permits written data to be deleted changed or modified in addition to being read may be used. This type of CD ROM is typically referred to as a CDRW.

The card readers that such operators utilize therefore also have data entry means such as a keyboard or other type of receptacle for receiving information and the capability to store the modified data in the appropriate portion of the card such as via a transmitter . The capability to make modifications to the data stored in a card may be associated with the particular operator s biometric such that when the operator logs onto a card reader the operator submits at least one biometric that is latched against the stored biometrics of the potential operators as described hereinabove and the card reader recognizes that the operator has the ability to make modifications to the data stored in the card. In one embodiment of the identity verification system of the present invention the operator is not allowed to make changes to his or her own security clearance card such that any changes that are made to a security clearance card must be verified by a third person prior to being stored in the card. Furthermore in embodiments of the identity verification system of the present invention all of the modifications made to the data stored in the card may be tracked such that the exact modification made and the operator who made the modification are identified and stored in the card and or in a remote storage element in case the details of the modification are needed at a later date. As described above regarding cards in which data is stored in a CDR in order to further track the changes to the data stored in the card the modifications may not completely overwrite the previous data stored in the card such that the modifications create an additional layer of data over the previous data and do not delete any of the previous data. As such the previous data may be accessed at a later time in case a need for the previous data arises.

As a further security procedure the card readers may also be capable of checking the security clearance cards to verify the integrity of the cards prior to permitting an individual access to a location or object and prior to relying upon the data stored in the card in various applications. As such the card may contain highly secured internal controls that may be verified by the card reader. Furthermore the card reader may be capable of checking the modification data to ensure that modifications of the data stored in the card have been done according to the procedures described above. If any discrepancy exists in the data or internal controls of the card then the card reader may deny the individual access to the desired location and for the manned card readers display the discrepancy to the operator. For instance if the card reader detects a discrepancy in the data or internal controls of the card the card reader may display particular colors and or symbols to represent the location and or nature of the discrepancy. Such a discrepancy may also trigger the card reader manned or unmanned to initiate one or more action as described more fully herein below.

Typically the unmanned card readers are capable of reading only at least a portion of the identity data from the data stored in the card such that the unmanned card readers may permit or deny access to a location or object tangible or intangible based upon the comparison between the biometric stored in the card and the biometric received by the card reader from the individual presenting the card. In other embodiments of the identity verification system of the present invention however manned and or unmanned card readers may also be capable of reading all of the identity data at least a portion of the field data and or the extra data stored in the card based upon the particular application of the card reader. In the same way as described above each cad reader may access only certain portions of the identity field and or extra data stored in the card by associating each card reader with the capability to read only the type of encryption for the data that each card reader is permitted to access.

The type and or amount of data that a card reader may access may be varied such that the items a certain card owner can access may be varied. In one embodiment of the security system of the present invention a central node such as the control center may be in communication with one or more of the card readers in the security system. Changes to the type of access permitted to a particular cardholder then may be made at the central node and transmitted to the card readers at issue. For example cardholder A may initially be permitted to access all items in a particular organization. Due to changes in the items and or changes to cardholder A s status card holder A s access permissions may change such that card holder A is no longer allowed to access door in the organization. The changes to card holder A s permissions may be made at the central node and the central node transmits the changes to the card reader at issue which for this example is the card reader associated with door . The door card reader now will deny card holder A access to door . Similarly the amount and type of data an operator of a card reader may access also may vary. Thus this security system enables changes to card holder access to be made efficiently while also ensuring that the access decisions are made at the card reader level instead of requiring the card reader to query a remote database each time a decision must be made like conventional security systems.

Therefore the security clearance cards in conjunction with the card readers of the present invention not only provide a secure reliable and efficient technique for determining whether an individual presenting a security clearance card is in fact the owner of the card but also ensure that the card reader and or any person operating a card reader is capable of accessing only the necessary data. As such the private information associated with the owner of the card remains private and only those readers and or people authorized to access the private information are permitted access to it. In addition changes to the type and or amount of data that a card reader and or card reader operator may access may be made via a central node and transmitted to the card reader s at issue such that changes are made efficiently but access decisions are continuously made at the card reader level.

Manned and or unmanned card readers may also include a display such as the monitor shown in for presenting information to the operator and or the individual presenting the card. For example in embodiments of the identity verification system of the present invention that include manned or unmanned card readers operators and or individuals presenting the card may view a display that at least indicates whether the biometric s stored in the card match the biometric s submitted by the individual presenting the card. This indication may consist of at least a portion of the display screen turning a particular color based upon the result of the biometric comparison such as green when the biometrics match and red when the biometrics do not match. Alternatively to or in addition to the color that may be presented to the operator via the display screen words symbols and or objects may also be presented to the operator to further indicate the results of the biometric comparison. For instance a yes okay thumbs up symbol or the like may be displayed on the screen when the biometrics match and a no stop stop sign symbol or the like may be displayed on the screen when the biometrics do not match. In other embodiments of the identity verification systems of the present invention that include manned and or unmanned card readers at least a portion of the identity data i.e. the biometric name address and or date of birth of the card owner and or the validity and expiration dates of the card may be displayed when the card reader reads the identity data. For security privacy reasons the unmanned card readers and or manned card readers may restrict the amount of identity data that is displayed. When the operator logged on to a manned card reader is capable of reading at least a portion of the field and or extra data carried by the card then that data may be displayed to the operator via the display also.

Depending upon the result of the biometric comparison the card reader may initiate certain actions. In one embodiment of the identity verification system of the present invention manned and or unmanned card readers may initiate actions such as audible or silent alarms via the action initiator when the biometrics do not match and or when the identity data stored in the card matches identity data associated with individuals that have been identified for some reason. For example the card readers may be capable of storing or accessing identity data associated with individuals that have been identified such as due to particular issues associated with the individual or any other reason. The card readers then may compare identity data stored in a card with the identity data stored in card readers either prior to or subsequent to the biometric comparison but prior to permitting the individual presenting the card to gain access to the desired location or object and prior to relying on the data stored in the card. The silent or audible alarm therefore indicates to the operator of the card reader that the individual presenting the card should be examined further based upon the application and or location of the card reader. In other embodiments of the identity verification system of the present invention other actions may be initiated by the card reader via the action initiator such as immediately contacting a manager and or law enforcement officials i.e. a downstream application when the biometrics do not match and or when the identity data stored in the card matches identity data associated with individuals that have been identified for some reason. This type of action may be initiated with or without the alarm action described above and or any other type of action.

The card reader may also be capable of reading instructions that are stored in the card reader the individual security clearance cards and or any other location the card reader is capable of accessing. The instructions may include the type of actions to initiate based upon the results of a biometric comparison the identity data analysis and or the information submitted by the individual presenting the card. For example the card reader may read instructions that direct it to initiate different actions based upon the type of biometric that is submitted by the owner of the card. For example in an embodiment of the identity verification system of the present invention the card reader may be instructed to perform normal operations i.e. permit or deny access to the individual presenting the card based upon a biometric comparison when the individual presenting the card submits a right hand index finger fingerprint to the card reader. If however the individual presents a fingerprint from a different finger then the card reader may be instructed to immediately notify a person or organization that can help with the situation such as a manager and or law enforcement officials. This functionality of embodiments of the card reader may be advantageous in situations in which the card reader is capable of allowing access to valuable sensitive information and or locations. For example in situations where the card reader allows the owner of a card access to a bank account the owner of the card may present a right hand index finger fingerprint in normal situations but if the owner of the card is in danger such as if another person is forcing the owner of the card to access the bank account so that the other person can gain access to it then the owner of the card may submit a fingerprint from a different finger which will trigger the card reader to immediately contact law enforcement officials i.e. a downstream application.

As illustrates any given security system according to the present invention may be configured such that only certain card readers certain card reader operators certain card holders and or certain downstream applications may access certain levels and or sub levels of data that is stored in the card . illustrates a security system in which each card has at least 10 levels of stored data and each level may have more than one sublevel as shown with Levels one and 7 The potential users or subclasses of users of the data stored in the cards of the security system are listed across the top of the chart. For example there are three subclasses of card readers CR CR CR three subclasses of operators of the card readers OP OP OP three subclasses of card owners CO CO CO and three subclasses of downstream applications AP AP AP as potential users of the data stored on the cards of the security system illustrated in . Other embodiments of the security system of the present invention may include a different amount if any of levels sublevels and or subclasses of users. In further embodiments the classes of users may not be divided into subclasses but instead each user may be individually listed.

An X in the box directly below a potential subclass of users indicates that the subclass may read the Level and or Sublevel of data associated with the row in which the X is located. For instance as shown in CR may read any data stored in Levels of a card while OP may read data stored only in Level . Thus by storing only certain types of data in certain Levels and or Sublevels and by strategically assigning which potential subclass s of users may read which Levels and or Sublevels the security system of the present invention provides flexibility efficiency and data protection that conventional security systems do not provide. Furthermore while the security system of the present invention is capable of functioning without having to access a remote database or storage element of any type it is also capable of passing along the data stored in a card to other users such as any downstream applications of the security system which may be remote. For instance as shown in CR is not capable of reading the data stored in Level of a card but CR can transmit the data from Level to AP where the Level data may be read.

In addition the security system of the present invention is capable of allowing conditional access to certain levels and or sublevels of data stored in the card. For example an operator or a card owner may be designated as an owner of one or more data level and or sublevel. After the card reader initially scans a card and performs identification verification of the operator and or the card owner by matching biometrics as described hereinabove the card reader may prompt the owner of a level and or sublevel of data to approve or deny access to the data. In one embodiment of the security system of the present invention the owner may be prompted to submit another biometric sample to indicate the owner s approval. For instance in the example shown in CO may be subclass of card owners that have requested that they be able to approve on a case by case basis whether another user or subclass of users is able to read the card owner s social security number. Assuming that Level contains the card owner s social security number then prior to permitting an operator in the OP subclass and or a downstream application in the AP subclass to access the data in Level the card owner in the CO subclass must approve.

The card readers are therefore capable of ensuring that only the appropriate type s of data are read viewed and or accessed by any potential user of the security system. In addition the instructions for the card readers which include a processing element may be located within the card readers such that no need exists for the card reader to access a remote device for instructions or data. Furthermore the card readers are capable of logging the attempts to utilize security clearance cards by storing the biometrics that are submitted to the card reader such that any fraudulent attempts to use the cards can be easily identified via analysis of the stored biometrics. Thus the card readers in conjunction with the security clearance cards of the present invention provide a secure flexible and low cost technique for not only verifying the identity of an individual but also for ensuring that only authorized persons are capable of viewing and or accessing a card owner s data.

Certain advantageous embodiments of the identity verification system of the present invention are described below. The potential applications of the identity verification system are wide ranging and these specific embodiments are provided for illustration purposes only. For example the identity verification system may be utilized in seaports airports registration of foreign nationals both students and those in the workforce in government and private buildings power plants water plants and prisons just to name a few. In the explanation of these embodiments the descriptions of the identity verification system including the security clearance cards of the present invention which are provided above are incorporated.

An embodiment of the identity verification system of the present invention may be utilized in any application in which employees or other individuals must undergo a background check prior to accessing restricted areas. In this situation once a background check has been performed and the proper applicable procedures have been followed the employee or other individual may be issued a security clearance card in accordance with the present invention. As such because the security clearance card stores a biometric of the owner of the card and because the individual presenting the card must provide a matching biometric prior to gaining access to the restricted area there is little risk that an individual who has not passed a background check in accordance with the proper procedures can gain access to the restricted areas. This type of application may be utilized for seaports power plants water plants government and private buildings prisons and any other location that contain certain areas and or items that only a select group of people may access.

In other embodiments individuals may also be required to check out via the card reader with their security clearance card when they leave the restricted area. In this embodiment the identity verification systems is capable of tracking the amount of time and or the number of times a particular individual accesses certain areas. This type of data may be utilized in various other downstream applications such as accounting applications and or applications that enforce limits on the amount of time spent in a certain area such as limits on the amount of time that an individual may be exposed to radiation. In the later example once an individual has reached the limit the card reader will no longer allow that individual access to the restricted area even if the individual s biometrics match the biometrics carried by the card. Once the individual may be exposed to radiation again the card reader will again allow the individual to access the restricted area. Furthermore in certain applications it may be desirable to permit an individual to access a particular area but not to let them leave the area at least for a predetermined period of time. Thus the security system of the present invention is also capable of implementing this application.

In another embodiment of the identity verification system of the present invention a security clearance card may be associated with an object either tangible or intangible instead of an individual. For instance a security clearance card may be associated with a shipment such that the card stores data regarding the shipment such as the contents origin destination owner and any other data about the shipment. In addition the card stores identity data for an individual who is responsible for the shipment such that the individual s biometric s are stored in the card and the individual must submit matching biometric s in order to vouch for the validity of the shipment.

The identity verification system of the present invention may also be used for voter identification and registration. For example an individual s voter registration may be stored in the cards and polling locations may have card readers. As such the election workers may be identified as operators of the card readers with the capability to read only the voter registration portion of the data stored in security clearance cards. Therefore an individual may present his or her card to an election worker who operates a card reader that compares the biometric s stored on the card with at least one biometric submitted by the individual. If the biometrics match and the individual s voter registration information is verified then the individual will be permitted to vote at the location. Therefore the identity verification system of the present invention greatly reduce the risk of voter fraud by ensuring that the person voting is the person that is registered to vote.

Embodiments of the identity verification system of the present invention may also be utilized for the registration and tracking of foreign nationals both students and those in the work force. In this application a security clearance card of the present invention may be issued to each foreign national and the card includes identity data regarding the particular foreign national including at least one stored biometric. The foreign nationals may be required to report to any appropriate official agency office on some periodic basis so that the government may obtain information regarding the foreign national s status such as to ensure that the foreign national continues to be enrolled in school and or working in the country. When a foreign national reports to the appropriate office and presents the card an official at the office may operate a card reader to read at least a portion of the identity data carried by the card and to verify that at least one biometric submitted by the individual matches the biometric s stored in the card. The official then may determine the status of the foreign national based upon their activities. A log is created of the foreign national s reporting in order to document that the foreign national has complied with his or her obligations. If the foreign national fails to report or if the status of the foreign national has changed then the identity verification system of the present invention may automatically report that information to the appropriate officials so that they can take proper action. In this embodiment the card reader may be in communication with a central control facility and or a downstream application that manages the foreign national information such that the card reader can automatically transmit the data regarding the foreign national to the appropriate location.

As conveyed by the variety of examples described above and the overall description hereinabove the security clearance cards and the identity verification system of the present invention may be employed in a variety of potential applications. Not only are the security clearance cards in conjunction with the card readers capable of verifying the identity of an individual without the need to access a remote database but the system is also capable ensuring that operators of card readers may view and or access only the portions of the data carried by the card to which they have authorization. Furthermore the present invention tracks the usage of the cards by logging the biometrics that are submitted when an individual attempts to utilize the card such that any fraudulent usage of the card is easily caught and the responsible person identified. Therefore the security clearance cards and the identity verification system of the present invention provide an efficient secure and accurate technique for ensuring that only the appropriate individuals gain access to certain locations information objects and or any other item of which protection is desired.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

