---

title: Entangled-photon range finding system and method
abstract: A method of determining a distance to an object is presented. A first photon and a second photon are simultaneously generated. The first photon is reflected off an object. The second photon is directed to an optical cavity. An arrival of the first photon is correlated with an arrival of the second photon, and the distance to the object is at least partially determined using the correlation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08031333&OS=08031333&RS=08031333
owner: General Dynamics Advanced Information Systems, Inc.
number: 08031333
owner_city: Arlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080215
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 088 205 to Zaugg entitled Entangled Photon Range Finding System and Method filed Mar. 24 2005 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference. This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 850 394 to Kastella et al. entitled System and Method of Detecting Entangled Photons filed May 21 2004 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference. This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 555 699 to Zaugg entitled Entangled Photon Range Finding System and Method filed Mar. 24 2004 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

To the extent that this invention was made with Government support under contract number NRO000 02 C 0371 awarded by the National Reconnaissance Office the Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates to determining distances. In particular the invention relates to using one photon of a pair of entangled photons reflected off an object to determine a distance to that object.

Mankind has been interested in determining distances to remote objects for centuries. Presently known techniques for determining ranges include RADAR and LIDAR which rely on detecting emitted electromagnetic radiation.

Photons are quanta of electromagnetic energy. Multiple photons may be entangled or not entangled. Photons that are not entangled together i.e. random photons exist as independent entities. In contrast entangled photons have a connection between their respective properties.

Two photons entangled together are referred to as an entangled photon pair also biphotons . Traditionally photons comprising an entangled photon pair are called signal and idler photons. Measuring properties of one photon of an entangled photon pair determines results of measurements of corresponding properties of the other photon even if the two entangled photons are separated by a distance. As understood by those of ordinary skill in the art and by way of non limiting example the quantum mechanical state of an entangled photon pair cannot be factored into a product of two individual quantum states.

In general more than two photons may be entangled together. More than two photons entangled together are referred to as multiply entangled photons. Measuring properties of one or more photons in a set of multiply entangled photons restricts properties of the rest of the photons in the set. As understood by those of ordinary skill in the art and by way of non limiting example the quantum mechanical state of a set of n 2 multiply entangled photons cannot be factored into a product of n separate states. The term entangled photons refers to both biphotons and multiply entangled photons.

Photon properties that may be entangled include time frequency polarization and angular momentum. In particular photons that are entangled in time are referred to as temporally entangled photons. Such photons are generated nearly simultaneously. For given optical path lengths traveled by constituent photons in a temporally entangled photon pair detecting one of the photons places limits on the times at which the other photon may be detected. If the two temporally entangled photons travel equal optical distances and the first photon is detected at time t then the second may only be detected within Tof t where Tis an entangled photon parameter known as entanglement time. 

Known distance determination techniques such as RADAR and LIDAR generally rely on transmitting certain types of electromagnetic radiation e.g. relatively narrow band electromagnetic radiation coherent electromagnetic radiation pulsed electromagnetic radiation that reflects off of an object in order to determine its distance from the RADAR or LIDAR unit. However electromagnetic radiation as used by RADAR and LIDAR is easily detectable. Third party observers are therefore generally able to ascertain the existence and possibly location of operating RADAR and LIDAR systems. Thus detectability by third parties remains a major drawback of using RADAR and LIDAR systems to measure distances for applications where stealth is desirable.

One aspect of the present invention provides a distance determining system and method based on entangled photons that is substantially immune to detection by others.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a system for and method of determining a distance to an object is disclosed. The method includes generating a first photon and a second photon the first photon and the second photon being entangled. The first photon is directed at an object. The first photon is received after being reflected off of the object. The second photon is caused to travel a known distance. The first photon and the second photon are directed to an entangled photon sensitive material. An entangled photon absorption of the first photon and the second photon is detected by the entangled photon sensitive material. A distance to the object is found based on at least the known distance and the detecting.

Various optional and preferable features of the above embodiment include the following. The second photon may be caused to travel a known distance by using a bank of delays. The first photon and the second photon may be directed to an optical cavity. The first photon and the second photon may be directed to a first cavity or a second cavity. An adjustable delay may be used.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a system for and method of determining a distance to an object is disclosed. The method includes generating a first photon and a second photon simultaneously. The first photon is directed at an object. The first photon is received after being reflected off of the object. At least the second photon is caused to enter an optical cavity. An arrival of the first photon and an arrival of the second photon are detected. The detection is used to determine a distance to the object.

Various optional and preferable features of the above embodiment include the following. The detection may include detecting using electronic photon detectors. The detection may include detecting using an entangled photon sensitive material.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a system for and method of finding a distance to an object is disclosed. The method includes generating a plurality of first photons and a plurality of second photons each of the plurality of first photons being associated with one of the plurality of second photons. At least a first portion of the first photons is directed to the object. A reflected portion of the first photons is received after being reflected off the object. At least a second portion of the second photons is directed to a cavity. A correlation between at least some photons in the reflected portion and at least some photons in the second portion is detected. The correlation is used to determine the distance to the object.

Various optional and preferable features of the above embodiment include the following. The detecting may include detecting using a coincidence counter. The coincidence counter may detect a temporal correlation between arrival times at a first detector of at least some photons in the reflected portion and arrival times at a second detector of at least some photons in the second portion. The temporal correlation may include a temporal translation. The detection may include detecting using a biphoton sensitive material. The correlation may include spatial coincidence between the at least some photons in the reflected portion and the at least some photons in the second portion. The distance to the object may be found as a remainder of the distance to the object upon being divided by a length of the cavity. At least a third portion of the second photons may be directed to a second cavity. A second correlation between at least some photons in the reflected portion and at least some photons in the third portion may be detected. The correlation and the second correlation may be used to determine the distance to the object. At least a third portion of the photons in the second portion may be delayed. The method may include spectral filtering. A binary coil bank may be used.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a system for and method of determining a distance to an object modulo a cavity length parameter is disclosed. The method includes generating a first photon and a second photon the first photon and the second photon being entangled. The first photon is directed at an object. The first photon is received after being reflected off of the object. The second photon is caused to travel a known distance. At least the second photon is caused to enter an optical cavity. An arrival of the first photon and an arrival of the second photon are detected. A distance to the object modulo the cavity length parameter based on at least the known distance and the detection is found. The distance to the object modulo the cavity length parameter is used to determine the distance to the object.

Various optional and preferable features of the above embodiment include the following. The distance may be less than the cavity length parameter. The cavity length parameter may be the optical length of an optical cavity. The cavity length parameter may be a length associated with a plurality of optical cavities. The length associated with a plurality of optical cavities may be an effective cavity length.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a system for and method of processing entangled photons is disclosed. The method includes selecting a wavelength. A cavity is configured to have a cavity length. The cavity has cavity mirror parameters. The cavity length and the selected wavelength have a ratio which is divisible by after being adjusted for the cavity mirror parameters. A plurality of photons are directed to the cavity. An entangled photon pair is detected the entangled photon pair including a first photon and a second photon the first photon having a first frequency and the second photon having a second frequency. The sum of the first frequency and the second frequency corresponds to the selected wavelength.

Other exemplary embodiments and advantages of the present invention may be ascertained by reviewing the present disclosure and the accompanying drawings.

The particulars shown herein are by way of example and for purposes of illustrative discussion of the exemplary embodiments of the present invention only and are presented in the cause of providing what is believed to be the most useful and readily understood description of the principles and conceptual aspects of the present invention. In this regard the description taken with the drawings provides a fundamental understanding of the present invention making apparent to those skilled in the art how the several forms of the present invention may be embodied in practice.

Signal photons are directed to the object whose range is to be determined the target object using optical techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. The target object reflects back a portion of signal photons to entangled photon range finder . Assuming the target object scatters light in a diffuse manner the probability pthat a photon scattered from the target object at range z returns to aperture may be represented as by way of non limiting example p A 4 z where A is the area of the aperture. Using optical techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art returning signal photons are gathered at aperture and directed to optical cavity .

Idler photons are directed to coiled polarization preserving fiber . Fiber sets the nominal range of the entangled photon range finder embodiment. That is fiber delays idler photons by an amount of time that corresponds to the estimated mean time it takes signal photons to arrive at and return from the target object. Preferably the second photon of an entangled photon pair to enter optical cavity enters while the first photon of the pair to enter remains in optical cavity . Fiber serves to ensure that signal photons and idler photons enter optical cavity at approximately the same time by delaying entry of the idler photon to correspond with the delay resulting from the signal photon traveling to and returning from the target object. Note however that either of reflected signal photons or delayed idler photons may be the first to enter optical cavity . The nominal range of the entangled photon range finder is thus determined as the distance that corresponds to one half of the delay introduced by fiber . From fiber idler photons are directed to optical cavity such that they counter propagate i.e. enter at an opposite end of optical cavity with respect to signal photons .

Optical cavity is configured to temporarily trap entering signal photons and idler photons by continuously reflecting them back and forth inside the cavity. Optical cavity has high quality mirrors e.g. at least 99 reflectance . Preferably mirrors are concave with foci set to ensure that photons remain inside optical cavity . A photon s probability of remaining inside optical cavity drops to about 1 e after it is reflected back and forth inside optical cavity approximately 1 T T times where T Tare the transmittance of mirrors respectively. Thus a photon s lifetime inside optical cavity is approximately 2L c T T where Lis the length of optical cavity . A typical photon s lifetime in an optical cavity is by way of non limiting example on the order of 10seconds for mirrors with a 1 transmittance.

Optical cavity contains biphoton sensitive material BSM . BSM absorbs entangled photon pairs with a high probability and allows single photons and random photon pairs to pass through with very low probability of being absorbed. BSM is therefore essentially transparent to all photons except biphotons. Generally both photons of an entangled photon pair must be incident on the same atom or molecule of BSM within the entanglement time in order to be absorbed. After absorbing an entangled photon pair an atom or molecule of BSM ejects a fluorophoton which may be detected to indicate an entangled photon pair absorption. One or more suitable detectors in conjunction with BSM thus detect a correlation between signal photons and the idler photons with which they are entangled. A detailed description of BSM is found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 850 394 U.S. Publication No. 2005 0006593 entitled Systema And Method Of Detecting Entangled Photons to Kastella et al. filed on May 21 2004. BSM may be by way of non limiting example rubidium 87.

Detectors are configured to detect evidence of entangled photon pair absorption by BSM within optical cavity . More particularly optical cavity is partitioned along its length Linto M resolution cells each of width and each equipped with an individual detector configured to monitor indicia of entangled photon absorption in that resolution cell. Thus M L. An individual detector registering an entangled photon absorption at its associated resolution cell indicates the location at which the signal photon has traveled essentially the same distance as the idler photon. Thus registering an entangled photon absorption provides an indication of distance to the target object. Each detector is functionally connected to a computer which processes detection information as described herein.

The distance to the target object is resolved up to an integer number of cavity lengths L. i.e. modulo the cavity length according to the following. A signal photon returning from the target object and its corresponding idler photon will first be present in the same detector region according to by way of non limiting example 

When monitoring detectors two resolution cells are likely to indicate biphoton absorptions. These two locations arise due to the fact that in addition to being present together in resolution cell j signal photons and corresponding idler photons will also be present together in the same resolution cell at a conjugate location j . More particularly the signal photons reflected from the target object will encounter their corresponding idler photons at resolution cell j according to by way of non limiting example 

The parameters here are the same as those for equation 1 except that in equation 2 j indicates the conjugate resolution cell in which the biphoton s constituent photons are present. Generally j will be at a mirror image position to j where the term mirror image is used here to describe the apparent location of a reflection that would appear if a mirror were inserted at the half way point L 2 in optical cavity . Once both photons of an entangled pair are injected into optical cavity they will continue to counter propagate and be present together in resolution cells j and j throughout their lifetimes in optical cavity .

The ambiguity between which detector detects the true first location j at which the signal and corresponding idler photons are present together and which detector detects its conjugate j may be resolved by way of non limiting example as follows. Mechanically or electro optically adjusting the path length dwill cause j and j to change. Techniques for adjusting optical path length are discussed in detail below in reference to . If dis lengthened j will increase and j will decrease. Similarly if dis shortened j will decrease and j will increase. Thus by perturbing the path length and monitoring detectors for the positions of j and j the true resolution cell of first coincidence j will be identified. Other techniques for differentiating j and j may also be used.

Both photons of an entangled photon pair preferably enter optical cavity before the first photon of the pair to enter is either absorbed or exits optical cavity . The depth of field i.e. the distance about the nominal range in which ranges may be determined is accordingly a function of the cavity lifetime of the first photon to enter optical cavity . Thus the photon lifetime inside of optical cavity is one parameter that affects the ranges that may be measured by an entangled photon range finder embodiment. A target object that is within the depth of field of the nominal range will generally have its distance accurately determined. The depth of field for the entangled photon range finder embodiment centered about its nominal range as determined in part by the length of fiber may be approximated as by way of non limiting example 

Depth of field may be used to avoid certain types of inaccurate range determinations. By way of non limiting example near field clutter may produce aberrant range determinations by reflecting signal photons before they reach the target object. Such aberrations may be avoided by insuring that signal photons returning from such near field objects do not survive in the cavity long enough to coincide with their idler photons. Conversely a background to the target object such as clouds or the Earth s surface may reflect signal photons and produce aberrant range determinations. Such determination may be avoided by insuring that the idler photons do not last inside of the cavity long enough to coincide with signal photons returning from far beyond the target object. In both instances described in this paragraph configuring the depth of field to insure that in some cases the signal and idler photons do not coincide avoids certain aberrant range determinations.

Toward calculating a biphoton resonance condition biphoton coincidence amplitude A in the absence of an optical cavity can be written as by way of non limiting example 

The parameters of equation 5 are the same as those of equation 4 with the following additions is a normalization constant is the frequency of pump beam e.g. of and is the difference between signal photon and idler photon frequencies. The symbol t in equation 5 represents the rectangle function 

In the rectangle function of equation 6 D is the difference in inverse group velocities of ordinary and extraordinary rays leaving a nonlinear crystal. By way of non limiting example for beta barium borate D 0.2 psec mm where psec denotes picoseconds. L is the length of the nonlinear crystal. The product DL determines the entanglement time. The incorporation of the rectangle function defined by equation 5 into equation 4 serves to indicate that if an idler photon is absorbed or detected at time T then for equal optical path lengths s s the probability that the signal photon is detected at time Tis effectively zero for TT DL. The probability amplitude also satisfies the following equation 

The biphoton probability amplitude inside of optical cavity is calculated presently. By way of exposition and non limiting example the signal and idler photons are assumed to enter the cavity from the same side with equal optical path lengths and with no attenuation. Optical cavity is characterized by the complex reflectance coefficients r rand transmittance coefficients g gof the two mirrors respectively. When a biphoton encounters a mirror a portion of each component photon s amplitude is transmitted and a portion is reflected. Thus with each round trip through optical cavity biphoton amplitude inside optical cavity is reduced. The total biphoton amplitude at position x inside optical cavity can be written as by way of non limiting example 

In equation 11 and are the phases of the complex reflection coefficient and transmission coefficient respectively for i 1 2. The exponent in the denominator of equation 11 affects biphoton resonance in optical cavity as described immediately below in reference to equation 12 .

The probability of biphoton coincidence is maximized by selecting a cavity length Lthat satisfies the biphoton resonance condition which may be represented as by way of non limiting example 

The presence of the rectangle function in equation 13 indicates that the biphoton coincidence probability has a peak for every a multiple of 2L c. Compared to the biphoton probability in the absence of the cavity we see that the first peak 0 has been reduced by a factor of by way of non limiting example 

One consequence of the biphoton resonance condition is that the only biphotons to emerge from optical cavity with a relatively high coincidence probability will be those originating from photons of a particular frequency. Note that when the biphoton resonance condition is not met the biphoton probability amplitude becomes very small relative to when the condition is met. If the frequency of the signal photons is changed e.g. by the Doppler effect due to relative motion between the range finder and target object the cavity or pump frequency should be adjusted to account for the change. The biphoton resonance condition can then be used to filter for a particular Doppler frequency in systems where relative motion is great enough to affect results. Relative motion between the range finder and target object may be accounted for in other ways such as by limiting the integration time or by sweeping an adjustable delay or coincidence delay .

The presence of optical cavity in an entangled photon range finder embodiment e.g. optical cavity in the range finder embodiment of has several advantages. In order for a BSM to detect a biphoton both the signal photon and the idler photon should be present together at the same BSM molecule within the entanglement time. Without a cavity this could be accomplished by delaying the idler photon e.g. using fiber to precisely match the time it takes its corresponding signal photon to propagate to and be reflected from the target object. However with optical cavity the delay imposed upon the idler photon need not be exactly equal to the signal photon delay because the signal and idler photons will have the opportunity to encounter each other numerous times within optical cavity . Optical cavity serves to fold the optical path that a photon takes back onto itself a large number of times and the signal and idler photons have an opportunity to encounter each other with each such fold.

Binary coil bank is used to set the idler photon optical path to about the same length as twice the estimated distance to the target object. Binary coil bank thus sets the nominal range of the entangled photon range detector. In particular each signal photon e.g. and the idler photon e.g. with which it is entangled preferably enters optical cavity within the optical cavity lifetime of the first to enter. Further detail of binary coil bank are presented below in reference to .

Adjustable delay is set to produce maximal biphoton absorptions within the time interval from zero to 2L c. Maximal biphoton absorption coincides with each signal photon entering optical cavity or being reflected off mirror within the entanglement time interval of the idler photon with which it is entangled entering optical cavity or being reflected off mirror . Maximal biphoton absorption also indicates that the total optical path length traveled by idler photons equals the total optical path length traveled by signal photons . The time adjustment from adjustable delay can be resolved to within a fraction of the entanglement time. The entanglement length the entanglement time multiplied by the speed of light is analogous to resolution cell width for this arrangement. If the length Lof optical cavity is chosen to be a multiple M of the entanglement length then maximal biphoton absorption will occur when lies in the j th temporal interval of width c where by way of non limiting example 

Because the entanglement length is short the partial range resolution can be on the order of 60 m resulting in a large number of effective resolution cells for a relatively short cavity length. With each round trip inside optical cavity a photon accrues an additional 2Lpath length. Therefore maximal biphoton absorptions may be achieved by selecting from between zero and 2L c. That is to determine a setting of adjustable delay that maximizes biphoton absorption it suffices to test values of in the closed interval 0 2L c . Use of optical cavity thus provides a concise search domain within which delay times may be selected to correlate the signal and idler photons. Optical cavity effectively limits the delay values that need to be tested to achieve maximal biphoton absorption. Further details of adjustable delay are disclosed below in reference to .

The distance to the target object resolved up to an unknown multiple of Lonce biphoton absorptions are maximized as follows. The distance dtraveled by idler photons is known. Because d 2n2Lis within the entanglement distance the distance chat light can travel during the entanglement time of d the distance dto the target object may be determined modulo the cavity length by monitoring system parameters and computing by way of non limiting example d 2 mod L. 16 In equation 16 the quantity Lis the length of cavity and dis the system path length traveled by idler photons including the delays introduced by binary coil bank and adjustable delay but not including the unknown number n of round trips in optical cavity . The resulting number d 2 mod Lis within the entanglement length of dmod Lonce internal system path lengths are accounted for. Because entanglement times on the order of picoseconds are possible margins of error of less than one millimeter are contemplated.

The signal to noise ratio for the embodiment of is estimated presently. The rate at which photons are detected has two contributions one from the biphotons and one from random two photon absorption. The contribution from the biphotons may be represented as by way of non limiting example 

The random two photon absorption contribution to the detection rate may be represented as by way of non limiting example 

The symbols in equation 18 have the same meaning as those of equation 17 except w represents the radius for the signal photon and idler photon beams represents the signal photon flux and represents the idler photon flux. For zero detuning between the pump frequency and the two photon transition see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 850 394 factoring the random two photon detection rate from the total detection rate yields a total detection rate of by way of non limiting example 

The symbols of equation 19 have the same meaning as those of equation 18 except represents the bandwidth of the signal photon and idler photon beams and represents the line width of the excited atomic state that is the width of the transition. The signal to noise ratio for the embodiment of may accordingly be approximated as by way of non limiting example 

The symbols of equation 20 are the same as those of equation 19 except that B represents the electronics bandwidth. The electronics bandwidth B is the reciprocal of the integration time where the integration time is the amount of time spent testing each particular adjustable delay setting. In typical ranging applications where some signal photons do not return to the range finder the biphoton flux is equal to the signal flux which differs from the idler flux by p the probability that a signal photon returns from the target object. Background limited signal to noise is achieved when by way of non limiting example 

The symbols of equation 21 are the same as those of equation 20 . When equation 21 obtains the background limited signal to noise ratio may be represented as by way of non limiting example 

Optical cavities are constructed according to the following. Each optical cavity is filled with BSM respectively. Optical cavity of length Lis partitioned into Mresolution cells of width . Preferably the resolution cell width is chosen as an integer number of photon wavelengths of pump beam . Each resolution cell is monitored for entangled photon absorption by an associated detector . Similarly optical cavity of length Lis partitioned into Mresolution cells also of width each resolution cell being monitored for entangled photon absorption by an associated detector . Thus L M and L M . The numbers of resolution cells in the respective optical cavities are preferably relatively prime i.e. the greatest common divisor of Mand Mis one . Both optical cavities satisfy the biphoton resonance condition stated according to equation 12 and the surrounding description.

Each optical cavity may be used to independently resolve the distance to the target object up to an integer number of respective cavity lengths i.e. modulo Lor L respectively . That is by employing equation 1 as discussed above in reference to the numbers dmod Land dmod Lmay be determined. Note that two resolution cells in each cavity will likely register entangled photon absorptions. As discussed above in reference to adjustable delays may be used to determine which resolution cell in each optical cavity corresponds to the resolution cell where signal photons and corresponding idler photons are first present together. By way of non limiting example by perturbing adjustable delays and monitoring detectors respectively the resolution cells j jwhere signal photons and corresponding idler photons are first present together in optical cavities may be determined. Once jand jare determined equation 1 may be used to calculate dmod Land dmod L.

The quantities dmod Land dmod Lobtained from cavities respectively may be used to determine the distance to the target object at least modulo MM as follows. For i 1 2 note that 

For embodiments such as the embodiment of with two cavities a general formula governing preferable conditions emerges. Combining the depth of field equation 3 with the computations involved with synthesizing a large effective cavity from two smaller cavities yields a relationship between the cavity length L the mirror reflectance R and the range resolution which may be represented as by way of non limiting example 1 . 26 When the condition represented by equation 26 is met there is little or no possibility of range ambiguity because the idler photon does not remain in either cavity long enough to meet up with signal photons from beyond the field of view and conversely the signal photons returning from in front of the field of view do not remain in either cavity long enough to meet up with the idler photons.

For multiple cavity embodiments such as that of the depth of field discussion above in reference to equation 3 and is relevant with some amendments. In the case of multiple cavities the smallest cavity lifetime from among the various cavities generally governs. With regard to the discussion of above regarding range ambiguity in the case of multiple cavities the relevant parameter is effective cavity length rather than actual cavity length.

In general multiple cavities may be used to simulate a larger cavity whose effective length is by way of non limiting example 

Because entangled photons propagate together in the embodiment of there is a high probability of biphoton absorption by the BSM. That is the entangled photons interaction time i.e. the time in which they are within their entanglement length of each other approaches the photons lifetime in their respective optical cavities resulting in improved probability of biphoton absorption. Biphoton absorption can take place at any point in the optical cavities . Thus a single detector respectively will suffice for each cavity.

The two cavity range finder embodiment of may be used to resolve great distances using relatively short optical cavities. The embodiment of accomplishes this by simulating a relatively long effective cavity with two relatively short cavities. As discussed above in reference to the entanglement length is the effective resolution cell width for this embodiment. By way of non limiting example a two cavity range finder with 60 m L 24.47 cm L 24.55 cm so M 4079 M 4091 results in L 1001.23134 m. Thus a device measuring less than one quarter meter long may resolve distances of up to slightly more than a kilometer relative to the nominal range.

Detection events at idler photon detector act as a trigger for a coincidence window. To account for path length difference between signal photons and idler photons a coincidence delay is set electronically between the trigger and the start of the coincidence window. Alternately or in addition to the electronic coincidence delay an adjustable delay may be used such as that depicted in . After the coincidence delay the coincidence window begins. Coincidence counter registers a coincidence count whenever a detection event occurs at signal photon detector within the coincidence window.

Optical cavity provides several advantages in the electronic coincidence counter embodiment of in that fine tuning may be accomplished electronically instead of e.g. with optical delay of . The total delay time produced by binary coil bank and other spatial or electronic delays need not exactly equal the delay caused by the signal photon traveling to and returning from the target object in order to gain distance information. Instead the distance to the target object is computed modulo the cavity length and multiple cavities are used to resolve the ambiguity. The domain over which coincidence delay values are tested in order to detect a correlation may be limited to between zero and 2L c where Lis the length of the cavity. Use of optical cavity thus provides a concise search domain for delay times that correlate the signal and idler photons. Optical cavity effectively limits the delay values that need to be tested. Without an optical cavity correlation might require testing all possible delay values that a single photon may produce in traveling to and returning from a target object. With optical cavity test values are limited to a manageable interval.

Coincidence counter will generally register a coincidence count for every biphoton whose component photons are both detected. However detection is a function of at least the quantum efficiency of detectors . Typically the coincidence window is larger than the entanglement time due to the speed of electronics. It is however possible to achieve coincidence windows that are on the order of a few tens of picoseconds.

The range resolution for the embodiment of is dependent on the coincidence window length. The resolution may be represented as by way of non limiting example 

A typical coincidence count rate is estimated presently. For a coincidence counter triggered by the detection of idler photons the biphoton coincidence count rate is the rate at which idler photons are detected multiplied by the probability that the corresponding signal photon is detected within the coincidence window. The biphoton coincidence rate may be represented as by way of non limiting example 

A particular adjustable delay setting or coincidence delay is deemed to be correct when it yields a maximum in the observed count rate. Such judgment may be performed automatically by suitable computer hardware or software.

Finding a that maximizes the observed count rate determines the distance to the target object modulo 2L. An additional cavity arrangement as described above in reference to but incorporating an electronic coincidence counter instead of a BSM may be inserted into the embodiment of to synthesize a longer effective cavity thereby permitting measurement of the actual distance to the target object for distant target objects.

Typical signal to noise rates for the embodiment of are estimated presently. The associated root mean square Poisson noise is proportional to the square root of the total count rate multiplied by the electronics bandwidth. The signal to noise ratio may be written as by way of non limiting example 

A typical signal to noise ratio may be calculated using the following illustrative and non limiting parameters. A 10 quantum efficiency for both detectors 99 reflective mirrors a 1 nanosecond coincidence window a biphoton flux of 10biphotons per second and an integration time of 0.1 second yields a signal to noise ratio of 3.5 5.4 dB as seen in Table 1 below. For certain embodiments the term integration time refers to the amount of time spent testing each coincidence delay setting. In general the term integration time refers to the amount of time spent collecting data to be used for a calculation. A sophisticated coincidence counter could evaluate in a single integration time interval each coincidence delay the size of a coincidence window partitioning the interval 0 2L .

Combined signal photon and idler photon beam reaches polarizing beam splitter which reflects idler photons dotted line to quarter wave plate and passes signal photons dashed line to quarter wave plate . A portion of the signal photons that pass through quarter wave plate enter optical cavity of length L and a portion are reflected back through quarter wave plate . These reflected signal photons are reflected by polarizing beam splitter into beam . A portion of the idler photons that pass through quarter wave plate enter optical cavity of length L and a portion are reflected back through quarter wave plate . The reflected idler photons pass through polarizing beam splitter and join the signal photons in combined signal photon and idler photon beam . Combined signal photon and idler photon beam may be directed to one or more subsequent optical cavity configurations.

Coincidence counters detect coincidence from their associated pairs of cavities. Coincidence counter receives input from detectors . Detector detects the signal photons that pass through optical cavity and detector detects idler photons that pass through optical cavity . Similarly coincidence counter receives input from detectors . Detector detects the signal photons that pass through optical cavity and detector detects idler photons that pass through optical cavity . Each coincidence counter thereby detects coincidence between signal photons and idler photons. Coincidence detector detects such coincidence after the photons have passed through optical cavities of length L and coincidence detector detects such coincidence after the photons have passed through optical cavities of length L.

The optical cavity configuration depicted in may be used in conjunction with a variety of entangled photon range finder embodiments. By way of non limiting example the optical cavity configuration of may be inserted in the range finder embodiment of . More particularly the configuration depicted in may be substituted for the optical cavity in by using the combined signal photon and idler photon beam as the combined signal photon and idler photon beam . In such a combination the portion depicted in replaces optical cavity its mirrors and its detector . Moreover such a combination using pairs of optical cavities is able to resolve ranges to target objects up to a relatively long effective cavity length in the manner describe above in reference to . In particular the configuration of correlates signal photons with idler photons in a pair of cavities of identical length L. The configuration also correlates signal photons and idler photons in a pair of cavities of identical length L. For purposes of correlation it makes no difference if signal photons and idler photons are present together in the same cavity or in different cavities of equal length. Accordingly by choosing appropriate lengths and Land L an effective cavity of much greater length may be synthesized as described above in reference to .

The optical cavity configuration of has several advantages. The mirrors used in optical cavities are highly reflective. Thus most of the photons directed to the first pair of optical cavities and will be reflected and subsequently directed to the second pair of optical cavities and . Most of these photons will be reflected and pass to combined signal photon and idler photon beam . More correlations e.g. those arising from optical cavities of a different length may be gathered by cascading additional optical cavity configurations such as an optical cavity configuration of after beam . The configuration of also has the advantage of avoiding using half silvered mirrors to provide multiple combined signal photon and idler photon beams for multiple cavities of different lengths. While this technique may be used it results in lower signal to noise ratios than can be achieved using the configuration of . The optical cavity configuration of also has many of the advantages of optical cavity . The configuration of allows for flexibility in interposing a delay in that the signal photon delay need not be exactly matched. It also effectively limits the delay values that need to be tested to achieve correlation to a manageable interval.

The configuration of is designed to improve the signal to noise ratio by filtering out individual signal and idler photons that are resonant with the optical cavities. Individual photons resonant with optical cavities constitute the majority of photons that contribute to accidental coincidence counts. Removing such photons may reduce the accidental coincidence rate by an order of magnitude or more while reducing the biphoton coincidence rate by only the fraction of the spectrum removed. To remove the photons resonant with the ranging cavity both beams are reflected off other cavities of the same length. This arrangement provides the requisite filtering due in part to the fact that under the biphoton resonance condition equation 12 the biphoton amplitude is independent of the frequencies of the photons yet the individual count rates which contribute to the accidental coincidence count rate are functions of the individual signal and idler frequencies. depicts such a configuration where four cavities of the same length are used.

Configuring the first pair of optical cavities to have a lower finesse than the second pair of optical cavities helps to reduce the accidental coincidence rate. For this configuration the signal photon and idler photon fluxes may be represented as by way of non limiting example 

The signal to noise ratio for the configuration of is estimated presently. If the bandwidth is much greater than the free spectral range the signal photon and idler photon fluxes can be approximated as by way of non limiting example 

The spectral filtering configuration of has at least two effects. The first is a reduction in signal due to the loss of biphotons which is a function of Ras evidenced by its appearance in the term in brackets in front of the square root in equation 46 . The second effect is a significant reduction in the accidental coincidence rate relative to the biphoton coincidence rate which improves the accidental coincidence limited signal to noise ratio. This is evidenced by the term in front of Tin equation 44 which is a function of both Rand R. The advantages of the second effect make up for the loss of biphotons as per the first effect. A relatively higher flux may be required to reach the accidental coincidence limited case.

The spectral filtering configuration of may be used in any of the previous electronic coincidence counter embodiments. By way of non limiting example it may be substituted for the optical cavity in the embodiment of . Further it may be cascaded with an additional spectral filtering configuration having cavities of a different length for example to synthesize a long effective cavity.

The spectral filtering configuration of has advantages similar to those of the other optical cavities and their arrangements. By way of non limiting example it allows for flexibility in estimating the signal photon delay in that the imposed idler photon delay whether electronic or otherwise need not be matched exactly. Further it narrows the range of delay values to be tested to a manageable interval.

For embodiments described herein the signal to noise ratio may be improved by using multiply entangled photons e.g. entangled triples or generally entangled n tuples for n 2 of photons . By way of non limiting example consider a multiply entangled photon beam that includes one signal photon beam and two idler photon beams with each signal photon entangled with two idler photons. The signal photon beam is sent to the target object and its reflection is collected. Each of the idler photon beams pass through identical delay elements and cavities before being detected each at their own detector. In general an N photon accidental coincidence rate may be represented as by way of non limiting example 

An advantage of the techniques described herein is that distances may be determined in a manner that is undetectable by third parties. In particular signal photons are sent to be reflected off of the target object. However the signal photons as used herein are broadband and relatively low flux. Although the signal and corresponding idler photon frequencies sum to a constant the pump beam frequency the frequencies of the individual signal and idler photons are distributed. Moreover entangled photon range finding does not require the emission of easily detectable coherent radiation. Thus in contrast with RADAR and LIDAR the techniques disclosed herein may be used to measure distances with minimal threat of detection by other parties.

In embodiments of the present invention the nominal range is preferably set to be approximately equal to the range to the target object. This may be accomplished by guessing or by other methods. The nominal range may be set by using prior and or real time information about any or a combination of the target object s location its momentum its velocity its physical condition and its physical properties. Conventional range finding methods that give a gross approximation of the target object s range may be used to set the nominal range and the techniques discussed herein may be used to more accurately find the range once the nominal range is set. This alternative is particularly useful if such conventional methods are highly difficult or impossible e.g. passive observation to detect.

For the embodiments described herein portions of one embodiment may be substituted replaced or inserted into other embodiments. That is the teachings disclosed herein should be viewed collectively with each embodiment capable of employing technologies drawn from other embodiments. By way of non limiting example the following embodiment portions or features may be used in embodiments other than those with respect to which they are explicitly discussed optical coil bank electronic coincidence counter BSM same direction intra cavity photon propagation different direction intra cavity photon propagation multiple cavities and synchronized signal and idler photons.

The various calculations and judgments required during operation to determine ranges according to embodiments of the present invention may be accomplished by conventional computer hardware or software. These calculations are preferably performed automatically during the normal course of operation of embodiments of the present invention. By way of non limiting example the computations associated with the following equations as used to determine ranges may be performed by standard computer hardware or software equations 1 2 3 12 15 and 23 31 including algorithm 27 .

Note that in any of the embodiments described herein either the signal photons or the idler photons may be sent to the target object. If the idler photons are sent to the target object the signal photons will be retained at the range finder and delayed using any of the techniques discussed herein. More generally the terms signal and idler may be used interchangeably.

Note also that instead of using multiple cavities at once to synthesize a larger effective cavity the embodiments disclosed herein may use sequential measurements. In such a configuration the optical lengths of the cavity may be changed between measurements. Alternately various cavities of different lengths or a bank of cavities may be interchanged for different measurements. Interchanging cavities may be accomplished by way of electro optical wave plates. Further an iterative process may be employed where the range finding apparatus uses several different cavity lengths to home in on an object s distance.

By way of elaborating on earlier definitions entanglement time is a quantity associated with the spread in phase differences between signal and associated idler photons. That is entanglement time relates to the collection of differences in phase between signal and associated idler photons produced by an entangled photon source e.g. a non linear crystal . Entanglement time may be by way of non limiting example considered as the average time difference between when ordinary and extraordinary rays leave a nonlinear crystal. Ordinary rays leaving a nonlinear crystal are typically associated with signal photons and extraordinary rays leaving a nonlinear crystal are typically associated with idler photons. By way of non limiting example entanglement time is a function of the length l of a non linear crystal used to produce the entangled photons and may be described as T l n n 2c where n nare indices of refraction associated with ordinary and extraordinary crystal directions respectively. By way of non limiting example entanglement times on the order of T 5 10seconds are possible with a crystal length of 5 mm. These parameters yield an entanglement distance the distance that light can travel during the entanglement time of 0.15 mm. Much shorter entanglement times e.g. on the order of microns are also possible.

Entangled photons may be produced according to a variety of methods. Those of ordinary skill in the art are capable of producing entangled photon pairs triples etc. By way of non limiting example entangled photons may be produced according to types I or II parametric downconversion. That is biphotons whose constituent signal and idler photons are orthogonally polarized may be used as well as biphotons whose constituent signal and idler photons are polarized in parallel. For type I downconversion signal photons may be separated from idler photons and recombined with idler photons using dichroic glass. For both types of downconversion signal photons and idler photos may be selected as they exit the biphoton source by providing apertures at the appropriate angles. Any nonlinear crystal not limited to BBO may be used. Other ways to produce entangled photons include excited gasses materials without inversion symmetry and generally any properly phase matched medium. Entangled photon production consistent with this disclosure is not limited to using BBO or any other particular non linear crystal. Furthermore the entangled photons are not limited to any particular wavelength or frequency.

In alternate embodiments of the present invention that employ a BSM various indicia of entangled photon absorption by the BSM may be used to detect entangled photons. By way of non limiting example entangled photon absorption may result in fluorescence phosphorescence direct electron transfer or ionization of the absorbing material. Detecting fluorescence phosphorescence direct electron transfer or ionization may be used to detect entangled photon absorption. Also by way of non limiting example avalanche photodiodes photo multiplier tubes or other devices may be used to detect the fluorophotons ionization direct electron transfer or other absorption indicia.

In alternate embodiments of the invention the BSM is not limited to rubidium 87. By way of non limiting example any material with appropriately structured energy levels such as cesium 133 Cs or other alkalis may be used. Preferably such materials are those with a very narrow multi photon absorption linewidth. More preferably such materials are those with a very narrow multi photon transition to an excited state that decays through a path that includes a radiative transition. Further embodiments of the invention are not limited to any particular entangled two photon absorption or random two photon absorption electron energy level transition. Pump signal and idler photon frequencies and wavelengths may vary from those disclosed herein.

The equations contained in this disclosure are illustrative and representative and are not meant to be limiting. Alternate equations may be used to represent the same phenomena described by any given equation disclosed herein. In particular the equations disclosed herein may be modified by adding error correction terms higher order terms or otherwise accounting for inaccuracies using different names for constants or variables or using different expressions. Other modifications substitutions replacements or alterations of the equations may be performed.

The particular optical manipulation devices depicted herein are illustrative and representative and are not meant to be limiting. By way of non limiting example prisms apertures filters optical fiber lenses and particular lasers disclosed herein may be replaced with devices known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Alternate embodiments of the present invention may delay one photon in various ways. By way of non limiting example a length of optical fiber may be inserted into the path of one or both photons. Alternately sets of mirrors may be used to increase the path length of one or both photons. For electronic coincidence counting embodiments electronic detection delays i.e. coincidence delays may be used. Other techniques for delaying one or more photons may also be used.

Note that this disclosure follows standard physics notational conventions. By way of non limiting example in some places Planck s constant h and the speed of light c may both considered to be one 1 for the purpose of calculations. This convention allows inter alia for common units for frequency and energy as well as common units for time and distance e.g. temporal delays may be considered as spatial lengths and vice versa . This notational convention is accounted for after calculations have been performed in order to deduce correct units for application purposes. This disclosure also uses Dirac bracket notation e.g. known to those of ordinary skill in the art to denote quantum states.

It is noted that the foregoing examples have been provided merely for the purpose of explanation and are in no way to be construed as limiting of the present invention. While the present invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it is understood that the words which have been used herein are words of description and illustration rather than words of limitation. Changes may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention in its aspects. Although the present invention has been described herein with reference to particular means materials and embodiments the present invention is not intended to be limited to the particulars disclosed herein rather the present invention extends to all functionally equivalent structures methods and uses.

