---

title: System and method for tracking individuals via remote transmitters attached to personal items
abstract: In accordance with an embodiment, a system and method for verifying presence at a vendor location is defined. Preferably, an identification tag is coupled to a device, and the identification tag is operable to transmit a unique user identifier representing the user in possession of the device. The identification tag preferably includes a low frequency RFID device. Further, an identification tag reader is provided that is operable to receive from the identification tag the user identifier. The identification tag reader is preferably placed at a location of a vendor. Further, a computing device is provided that is operable to receive the user identifier from the identification tag reader. The computing device is further operable to receive from the identification tag reader a vendor identifier representing the vendor location, and is still further operable to receive a time identifier representing a time when the identification tag reader received the user identifier from the identification tag. Preferably, a database is also provided that stores the user identifier, the vendor identifier and the time identifiers with a plurality of other user identifiers, other vendor identifiers and other time identifiers. The computing device determines the name of the user and the name of the vendor as a function of the user identifier and the vendor identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08028905&OS=08028905&RS=08028905
owner: 
number: 08028905
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080519
---
This application is based on and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 938 905 filed on May 18 2007 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR TRACKING INDIVIDUALS VIA REMOTE TRANSMITTERS ATTACHED TO PERSONAL ITEMS the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates generally to communications and more particularly to integrating remote hardware and software in a social networking application and a direct to consumer marketing application.

Interpersonal communication has dramatically improved over the past decades largely due to technological advances in cellular telephone technology and the internet. Although mechanisms for people to communicate are known and available vendors and consumers as well as people in purely social contexts continue to strive for improved access to each other.

In one example a vendor with a business desires to advertise on a social network. Examples of social network internet web sites include www.myspace.com and www.facebook.com which typically allow an end user to create a personal profile to be shared within the confines of the respective web site. Social networks typically facilitate private messaging between users sharing of media such as photos blogs or videos personal interests of an end user and comments or feedback on other end user s content. Social networks may also function as a social calendar. In the prior art the vendor typically was charged a significant amount of money to be represented as a normal end user and in exchange the vendor has access to friends for sending marketing related messages. The vendor typically can post pictures comments videos and bulletins and interact with other end users and even pose or otherwise be represented as a non vendor end user. Additionally the vendor may be provided with options to collaborate with the social network such as to run banner advertisement campaigns across the social network to reach a target demographic. The social network typically segments end users most likely to be influenced by such banner advertisements based on information those end users have provided.

While it is possible that end users supply erroneous information that may not accurately represent respective the end users social class status locations or interests known social networks do try to reach target demographics accurately so that end users are enticed to select banner advertisements and purchase respective products or services. Prior art social networks make a great deal of money from pseudo end user avatars as known in the art and may also charge vendors per end user click on the vendor s banner advertisements. A pseudo end user avatar is any vendor that assumes an identity on the social network but is backed by an organization or company as opposed to a single person and functions in exactly the same way as a normal end user. Prior art social networks also attempt to mine end user demographic data to provide the most relevant and potential customers for vendors.

In another example a vendor at a trade show desires to collect contact information. The vendor has a booth to sell his goods services and to present promotional signs and displays. In case a potential client or someone of interest walks by the vendor s booth and is interested in what the vendor is offering the vendor speaks to the person directly or hands the person a brochure or other marketing materials. In order for the vendor and the person to remain in contact in the future and away from the trade show contact information of the vendor and or person must be exchanged to allow the parties to communicate.

In yet another example a vendor desires to provide relevant information to end users. The vendor wants to advertise to existing and potential end users in several different ways. Combined with typical known market research the vendor can communicate in various ways such as by direct mail e mails as well as with other non traditional marketing messages such as short message service SMS and online banner advertisements. However the vendor must rely on prior experiences to guide choices about where and when to place such advertisements and may feel required to enlist the help of third parties to analyze customers and make recommendations for the best strategy to reach a particular demographic. The vendor may feel inclined to cull an end user list for example for a direct mail or SMS campaign from various sources and hope that the end users are still interested in the vendor s products or services. Active and constant collection and tracking of user provided data allows for more relevant and timely messages to the end user.

In still another prior art example a vendor wants to target end users for additional sales during a point of sale as known in the art. In the prior art the vendor strategically places a sign or employs knowledgeable and charismatic salespeople with an ability to promote the vendor s campaign. This option is typically not available to most vendors. Occasionally a venue such as a large stadium however may provide a similar option such as to promote some campaign such as a lucky seat that entitles one or more customers to win something.

Another prior art example regards end user communication in which end users desire to communicate with each other. In the prior art the end user can use a telephone which may be impractical for contacting many people. Another option for the user is to read blogs or visit web sites to check whether plans or events are posted. Yet another option is for the end user physically to visit places where friends might be present.

In yet another prior art example an end user desires to locate people having similar interests. Known choices that are available to the end user include reading people s profiles on a social network but the information posted thereon may be obsolete or wrong. Moreover information may be poorly organized or otherwise difficult to locate. Another alternative includes physically meeting people in real world places or the user can join a club in the real world or virtual group of other end users and hope to find people having similar interests.

In yet another prior art example an end user wants to publish to his friends that he just attended an event such as an exclusive concert or play. In the prior art the end user can call write or post about the shown on the internet to share the experience with friends and family. Unfortunately the story of the end user s experience must be taken at face value though the end user can back up claims with pictures or verification from other people who can confirm the user was present.

Thus and as described above although mechanisms and devices are available for communication in the prior art problems and shortcomings still persist that impede people from communicating with each other.

An improved system and method is provided for inter personal communications that are secure immediate and far reaching. In accordance with an embodiment a system and method for verifying presence at a vendor location is defined. Preferably an identification tag is coupled to a device and the identification tag is operable to transmit a unique user identifier representing the user in possession of the device. The identification tag preferably includes a low frequency RFID device. Further an identification tag reader is provided that is operable to receive from the identification tag the user identifier. The identification tag reader is preferably placed at a location of a vendor. Further a computing device is provided that is operable to receive the user identifier from the identification tag reader. The computing device is further operable to receive from the identification tag reader a vendor identifier representing the vendor location and is still further operable to receive a time identifier representing a time when the identification tag reader received the user identifier from the identification tag. Preferably a database is also provided that stores the user identifier the vendor identifier and the time identifiers with a plurality of other user identifiers other vendor identifiers and other time identifiers. The computing device determines the name of the user and the name of the vendor as a function of the user identifier and the vendor identifier.

In another embodiment a promotion is provided to the user from the vendor as a function of the identification tag reader receiving the user identifier. In yet another embodiment the promotion includes an advertisement transmitted to the device. In still another embodiment the promotion includes a price discount on a good or service provided by the vendor.

Other embodiments are disclosed herein. For example a vendor avatar representing the vendor is preferably displayed on an internet site and or a user avatar representing the user is displayed on the internet web site. In another embodiment an advertisement campaign is transmitted to a plurality of users as a function of user identifiers and time identifiers. The computing device may post the name of the user or an alias name of the user the name of the vendor and or the time when the tag reader received the data from the identification tag on an internet web site. Further the computing device may provide access to at least one of the name of the user or the alias name the name of the vendor and the time identifier to visitors of the internet web site pursuant to privacy settings defined by the user.

In another embodiment a method is defined for verifying a person s presence at a particular location. The method includes storing in a database user information of people wherein each of the people has a respective identification tag. A tag reader receives data from one of the respective identification tags and the data are transmitted from the tag reader to a computing device. Preferably an event ID is determined that represents an event where the tag reader received the data. Further a user ID representing a user of the one respective identification tag is determined or alternatively a new user ID is assigned in case the user ID cannot be determined from the data. Further a time stamp when the tag reader received the data is determined. The user ID is preferably matched matching the user ID with information in the database storing the event ID the user ID and the time stamp to be published on an internet web site in case the matched data indicates that the user associated with the user ID has authorized the publishing.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description of the invention that refers to the accompanying drawings.

In preferred embodiments disclosed herein a reading device such as the RFID Reader is provided with a cellular modem or other transmitting device and enables wireless transmission of data such as a radio frequency identification RFID tag is provided and transmits a unique identifier to a computing device such as a server computer over a communication network. The identifier preferably is used to identifier a person in possession of the device and verifies the person s location at a given time.

In a preferred embodiment a social community is defined and or supported by the systems and methods described herein. One way a social community is supported is via an internet web site that members and or the general public access to determine the past or present whereabouts of members of the community. In one embodiment the web site is secured to protect users privacy and further is operable to respond to various events that occur over time. Examples of an event is a purchase by a user of a good or service an RFID Tag being read by an RFID Reader or graphical screen control selections made by users on web pages associated with the web site. In one embodiment vendors of goods and or services define events such as purchasing a good that cause the web site to respond such as by sending messages to users upon occurrence of the event. The events and or responses to events are preferably defined to occur once or alternatively on recurring bases.

Accordingly advantages provided by of the teachings herein relate to real world activity including related to vendor based portals or related web sites and a social network that does not require affiliation with for example a religion private club or other exclusive closed knit community of members that preclude easy access thereto.

Moreover the systems and methods disclosed herein provide new marketing opportunities for vendors of goods and services as well. For example by tracking the various locations consumers visit and the respective times thereof vendors can target consumers with specific advertising campaigns that have a high degree of relevance and likelihood of sales. Using the systems and methods disclosed herein particularly related to specific times and places that consumers frequent vendors can educate particular segments of consumers to products and services the those consumers would have otherwise not been exposed to.

In one embodiment data such as RFID Tag unique identifier are transmitted each time an RFID Tag is read. Alternatively a plurality of RFID Tags are read by a RFID Reader and the plurality of RFID Tag unique identifiers are transmitted by batch to the secure server.

In accordance with the forthcoming description the following terms are used and refer generally as set forth 

THEZOMBIMACHINE A combination of hardware and software that wirelessly receives and transmits an RFID Tag unique identifier as well as a timestamp and location and also includes an RFID reader a wireless modem functional circuitry and an assembly enclosure.

RFID Radio Frequency Identification a known and used technology often employed in various so called vertical applications such as in connection with security devices placed at store or other building exits or distributed in connection with goods sold in retail establishments e.g. Wal Mart K Mart or the like .

RFID tag A tiny microchip and antenna combination that can be formed and provided with an extremely small and thin sticker. Each RFID tag preferably includes a unique identifier that can be transmitted to an RFID Reader.

RFID reader A device that is operable to read an RFID tag including the RFID tag s unique identifier. An RFID reader is preferably a wireless device as known in the art and is reads an RFID tag when the tag is within a predetermined read range of the RFID reader.

Participating Vendors Any entity that employs the use of THEZOMBIMACHINE the accompanying social network and or associated marketing techniques

Participating Users Any entity that employs the use of an RFID tag to interact with a participating vendor.

In accordance with an example hardware arrangement in an embodiment one or more information processor s preferably include or have access to databases necessary to support the teachings herein. It is contemplated that any information processor can access any required database via a communication network to which the information processor may be coupled. The communication network is preferably a global public communication network such as the Internet but can also be a wide area network WAN local area network LAN an intranet or other network that enables computing devices and peripheral devices to communicate.

In a preferred embodiment the information processor s are any computer readable medium devices that are capable of sending and receiving data across the communication network e.g. mainframe computers mini computers personal computers laptop computers a personal digital assistants PDA cellular telephones and Internet access devices such as Web TV. In addition information processors are preferably equipped with web browser software such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER MOZILLA FIREFOX or the like. Information processors are coupled to the communication network using any known data communication networking technology.

Functional elements of an example information processor include one or more central processing units CPU that are used to execute software code and control the operation of the information processor. Other elements include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM one or more network interfaces to transmit and receive data to and from other computing devices across a communication network storage devices such as a hard disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive CD ROM or DVD for storing program code databases and application data one or more input devices such as a keyboard mouse track ball microphone and the like and a display.

Moreover the various components of an information processor need not be physically contained within the same chassis or even located in a single location. For example a storage device may be located at a site which is remote from the remaining elements of an information processor and may even be connected to a CPU across a communication network via a network interface. The Information processor s preferably includes a memory equipped with sufficient storage to provide the necessary databases forums and other community services as well as acting as a web server for communicating hypertext markup language HTML Java applets Active X control programs. The information processors are preferably arranged with components that are suitable for expected operating environment of information processor. The CPU s network interface s and memory and storage devices are selected to ensure that capacities are arranged to accommodate expected demand.

The nature of the invention is such that one skilled in the art of writing computer executable code i.e. software can implement the functions described herein using one or more of a combination of popular computer programming languages and developing environments including but not limited to C C Visual Basic JAVA HTML XML ACTIVE SERVER PAGES JAVA server pages servlets MYSQL and PHP.

Although the present invention is described by way of example herein and in terms of a web based system using web browsers and a web site server e.g. an information processor the invention is not limited to such a configuration. It is contemplated that hardware can be arranged data are communicated using any known communication method for example using a non Internet browser WINDOWS viewer coupled with a local area network protocol such as the Internet Packet Exchange IPX dial up third party private network or a value added network VAN .

It is further contemplated that any suitable operating system can be used on an information processor for example DOS WINDOWS 3.x WINDOWS 95 WINDOWS 98 WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS ME WINDOWS CE WINDOWS POCKET PC WINDOWS XP MAC OS UNIX LINUX PALM OS POCKET PC and any other suitable operating system.

RFID tags are relatively inexpensive to manufacture and can be provided in very small applications such as in stickers that can be placed on the back of personal devices such as cellular telephones personal digital assistants PDAs personal music player devices or the like. In a preferred embodiment a sticker containing the RFID tag is sufficiently sized as not to interfere with the user s enjoyment of the respective device to which the sticker containing the RFID tag is attached. Although many examples herein describe the RFID Tag attached to a device such as a cellular telephone the RFID Tag can be attached to any desirable surface including for example credit cards ID cards books or the like.

As known in the art RFID tags and RFID readers typically operate within a range of one or more radio frequencies. RFID related applications often use one or more specific frequencies to ensure optimal performance. Moreover the distance between an RFID tag and an RFID reader may vary from a few centimeters to several dozen kilometers depending for example upon the respective frequency of the RFID tag and or RFID reader as well as the particular configuration of the RFID tag and or RFID reader. Passive RFID tags for example typically do not require a power source and transmit data when the RFID tag is in a predetermined range with an RFID reader and tuned to transmit at the RFID reader s specific frequency. In a preferred embodiment the privacy of a user is considered such that RFID tags applied to users personal devices are readable by RFID readers when the RFID tag is positioned within a few inches of an RFID reader. Thus in a preferred embodiment a passive RFID tag is provided.

In a preferred embodiment an RFID Tag is provided to transmit only a unique identifier. No personal or otherwise personally identifiable information of the end user is stored on the RFID Tag or transmitted from the RFID Tag. Moreover the sticker or other carrier for the RFID Tags is printable in full color and can be formatted with sufficient space for branding and marketing messages. Unique identifiers and corresponding information such as personally identifiable information of an end user are preferably stored in a database thereby enabling one RFID Tag to be substituted with another RFID Tag. The database storing unique identifiers and corresponding information for example representing a user is updated accordingly. Thus for example in case an RFID Tag fails the user can substitute the failed RFID Tag with a replacement RFID Tag and the database preferably is updated accordingly.

In a preferred embodiment the RFID Reader is provided with a cellular modem or other transmitting device and enables wireless transmission of data such as an RFID Tag unique identifier to a secure server. Of course one skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention is not limited to wireless transmissions and that other embodiments are envisioned herein that include for example transmissions provided via Ethernet such as via a docking station or other wired interface.

In one embodiment data such as RFID Tag unique identifier are transmitted each time an RFID Tag is read. Alternatively a plurality of RFID Tags are read by the RFID Reader and a batch of RFID Tag unique identifiers are transmitted to the secure server. Preferably the batch of RFID Tags identifiers is sequentially transmitted to the server.

The RFID Reader is preferably configured to be small such as the size of five inches by five inches by one inch and operates using a typical household electrical outlet to operate properly. Alternatively the size of the Reader may vary and the Reader may be provided in many forms. For example the Reader may be contained in a non traditional enclosure such as a basketball or a doormat. No customized settings or proprietary configuration options are preferably required to operate the RFID Reader.

In one embodiment the unique identifier is correlated or bound to a user s cellular telephone number. In this embodiment the correlation is maintained or occurs via the database. Preferably the user s cellular telephone number or other information including personally identifiable information is not transmitted from the RFID Tag. In this embodiment a user can elect to receive marketing related messages or other information for example during a point of sale transaction and substantially in real time from a vendor. Alternatively the user may receive marketing related or other information in the future as a function of a point of sale transaction. The information may be provided to the user via an SMS session and is initiated for example when the user places his device to which an RFID Tag is coupled within reading distance of an RFID reader. The act of swiping in activates an SMS session and indicates the user has brought the RFID tag in proximity to the RFID reader.

The RFID Reader is preferably configured with a plurality of elements including an RFID reception element an antenna a transmission element such as a cellular modem and a cellular antenna. Moreover the RFID Reader is configured with a subscriber identity module SIM as known in the art. Further the RFID Reader is configured with user feedback elements such as light emitting diodes LEDs and or speakers.

In addition a basic wireless device shown in the accompanying drawings and referred to herein as THEZOMBI MACHINE is provided that integrates a low frequency LF passive RFID Reader preferably operating at around 125 MHz and connected to a compatible LF RFID antenna. The RFID reader is physically connected to a circuit board that supports Transistor Transistor Logic TTL serial communications as known in the art between the output of the RFID Reader and the cellular or other modem. The cellular or other modem is preferably configured with scriptable code to allow for manipulation and parsing of data received by the RFID Reader. The modem preferably processes the information received by the RFID Reader and couples this information with a timestamp and SIM Card identifier. The data are preferably thereafter transmitted wirelessly via a proprietary communication protocol through the cellular antenna to a server located elsewhere. The circuit board preferably includes integrated feedback devices that allow for user feedback when the modem and or RFID Reader successful reads and processes information provided by the end user. For example an audible beep or a visible flash of light indicating successful transmission is provided. The wireless device is preferably powered by either a standard A C power source or by an internal battery.

Thus in a preferred embodiment communication from the RFID Tag involves low level confirmation of end user presence and or successful data receipt.

As noted above a social community is supported by the systems and methods described herein. One way the social community is supported is via an internet web site operable on an information server. The web site is preferably secured to protect users privacy and further is operable to respond to various events that occur over time. Examples of an event is a purchase by a user of a good or service an RFID Tag being read by an RFID Reader or graphical screen control selections made by users on web pages associated with the web site. In one embodiment vendors of goods and or services define events such as purchasing a good that cause the web site to respond such as by sending messages to users upon occurrence of the event. The events and or responses to events are preferably defined to occur once or alternatively on recurring bases.

In one embodiment the internet web server of the present invention supports personal pages to be developed and used by participating end users. In this way users can review each other s personal web pages thereby furthering support of the social network and community. Moreover personal web pages can be provided for participating vendors as well. As a user uses a device equipped with an RFID Tag in a participating vendor s location an indication of the user s presence is immediately stored and or displayed on a web site of the user s choice or alternatively via personal RSS feed as known in the art. The degree to which information is stored and or displayed depends in part upon each user s respective authorization level and or privacy levels defined by the user or other authorized user. By displaying a user s presence in a particular establishment friends family or others are alerted to the user s location or that the user patronized a respective vendor. This feature substantiates users claims that respective vendors were patronized thereby and also supports and enhances the social community aspect. Thus a sort of hub is provided for discussion pictures comments and social interaction with other like minded and attending or non attending users.

In a preferred embodiment access to the web site and participation therewith are provided free of charge and does not require the use of the RFID Tag. In an alternative embodiment certain features are available only by limited access such as in connection with third party social networking internet web sites not affiliated with a proprietor of the teachings herein. Preferably vendors use the web site to define events and or manage marketing programs that are provided within the web site. In one embodiment marketing programs or special offers are provided exclusively over the web site or in accordance with the teachings herein. Also in an alternative embodiment web site access and participation are restricted to registered users and use of the RFID tag is required. In an alternative embodiment a publicly available internet web site is provided that does not require registration for users to participate. Moreover in an alternative embodiment a small fee may be charged to vendors and or users who desire access to particular areas of the web site or to engage in various activities thereon. Preferably the ability to define various programs or to be alerted of various programs are provided via SMS e mail or other media. Event management and analyses also are tailored to users including business owners and marketers and preferably do not require a high level of technical knowledge or skills. Moreover the experience is designed to be seamless for the event manager as well as the users.

As noted above the present invention supports a plurality of marketing applications for example for promoting the sale and support of goods and services by participating vendors. In one aspect branding of goods and services is provided on the surface of the sticker or other medium that carries the RFID Tag. The sticker is preferably provided in many shapes and styles and are customized for example to be printed in full color. In one embodiment the RFID Tag is defined with a shelf life of a period of time such as within a range of six months to one year after which the RFID Tag is disabled automatically. In case an RFID Tag expires after the end of its shelf life the user is preferably notified for example by e mail or SMS that the RFID Tag has expired and the user must either replace the RFID Tag or re activate it. In an alternative embodiment as long as a user s RFID Tag is read by an RFID Reader regularly such as at least once a week the RFID Tag shelf life is automatically renewed and does not expire. In this way frequency tracking is preferably supported.

In one embodiment customer loyalty programs are preferably supported such as providing a free good or service after the user purchases ten goods or services. Alternatively a user who pays a cover charge to gain access to a participating vendor s establishment e.g. a tavern is awarded one free entrance after paying for ten entrances. Since data provided to the information server are easy to collect and transmit marketing and networking programs are relatively easy to implement and support. Further communicating with participating users via SMS e mail or the like is convenient and can be automated. Moreover by tracking participating users activity via the RFID Tag provides a strong indicator of customer interest. So called viral marketing applications as known in the art are well supported thereby providing a convenient way to reach existing customers easily and directly. Moreover data mining enables participating to accurately determine places and products in which customers have shown active and regular interest 

A process in accordance with a preferred embodiment is now described. A user places a device that has an RFID Tag attached thereto sufficiently close to an RFID Reader so that the RFID Reader can wirelessly retrieve the unique identifier of the RFID Tag. The RFID Reader thereafter transmits information including for example the unique identifier timestamp and SIM identifier of the RFID Reader to an information processor and the information is preferably stored in a database. The database preferably includes other information such as a user s personally identifiable information and the RFID Reader s location and the other information is preferably correlated with the respective unique identifier number and the SIM identifier. The database is preferably accessible by a secured internet web site such that marketing data collection and social interaction are supported. Moreover in a preferred embodiment the database is updated substantially in real time.

Referring now to the drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like elements illustrates an example hardware and end user layout associated with a preferred embodiment. As shown in an end user is provided with an RFID Tag that is preferably coupled to a personal device such as a cellular telephone. The end user preferably uses the RFID Tag at the premise of a respective vendor . Thereafter information is transmitted to a plurality of devices and processes shown as THEZOMBI MACHINE . Thereafter the information is transmitted to database and thereafter to a representation of the vendor vendor avatar and user .

Once data are received by RFID Reader the data are preferably transmitted via cellular antenna tower and thereafter to RFID mobile information server . Information server preferably executes software modules that include storing data and providing a user interface for example for the end user promotion processes. Information is further transmitted to and from one or more databases provided on information processor that may be provided on an additional information processor thereby implementing the social network of the present invention.

Continuing with reference to a determination is made whether depending upon the user s respective personal settings information is to be posted automatically to an internet web site or not step S . If so then the web site is preferably updated step S and the user s information including a time stamp user ID and or event ID is preferably stored on information processor as active data step S . Alternatively if the user has elected that information will not be automatically posted then pending activity information is preferably posted step S and is stored in the database associated with information processor as pending data step S . Thereafter the process ends S .

Thus as shown in an end user interacts via a plurality of hardware and software modules and applications in a supported social network environment. The user interacts with friends identifies places where he has been as well as items or services that he has procured.

In another embodiment a method is defined to bridge the gap between any end user s participation and a marketer or provider of a venue application or video game and who desires to leverage information received as a result of the end user s participation to display custom content. The end user s participation may also operate to unlock secured content and or to receive a customized end user s experience without undue and laborious intervention on the end user s part. Preferably the user s participation that enables the unlocking of the content represents conditions that are tied to real world events. This content can be displayed in the real world via video screens or jukeboxes or may be virtually presented such as in game advertisements and or online content. This is preferably provided via an application program interface API that enables connectivity with or to the database. Further one or more computing devices provide hooks and one or more APIs are available for for example access to the data to be available to 3rd party partners.

In one example a vendor desires to advertise on a social network provided in connection with the teachings herein. The vendor places an RFID Reader in the vendor s venue and the user information received from the Receiver provides the vendor with an ability to post events and promotions at no additional cost to the end user or alternatively to manage experiential content and to control offline SMS promotions. Therefore simply by end users visiting the vendor s venue and receiving the end user s unique identifier the vendor is able to collect demographic data of existing customers and to communicate with the end users directly or indirectly e.g. globally for a promotion. As noted herein end users may define privacy settings that prevent or otherwise preclude vendors from communicating with end users directly or indirectly for a promotion. In any event the nature of the devices being in many locations enables the vendor to run a banner ad advertising campaign with the social network at least partially due to an accurate data set to target the vendor s existing and potential customers. Moreover accurate and useful offline promotions and the ability to attract end users to the vendor s real world venue in conjunction with the present invention improves the accuracy and broadens the vendor s segmentation becomes without relying exclusively on the social network to provide me with potentially bogus or fuzzy segmentations.

In another example a vendor has a booth at a trade show and desires to collect contact information from visitors to the booth. The vendor has an RFID Reader sitting at the vendor s booth as well as RFID Tags for visitors to take and that are compatible with the vendor s RFID Reader . When a potential client or person is interested in what the vendor s goods services the person brings his RFID Tag in close proximity to the RFID Reader . Preferably the RFID Tag is provided by the vendor and includes personalized marketing message s printed thereon. The vendor is provided with contact information after the database has correlated the unique identifier with the person and communication is available at a later point.

In yet another example a vendor desires to provide relevant information to end users . Participating end users that use RFID Tags preferably communicate with information processors and in order to control over how they want vendors and other end users to communicate with them. For example an end user may prefer e mail SMS messages or may elect not to receive any unsolicited communication. This saves the vendor an immense amount of time to determine the best way to reach users and lets the vendor invest as much time as necessary for delivering the right message to the right end users . Additionally data are preferably formatted uniformly and contain extra real world data that is not merely hearsay. The vendor has a distinct advantage over competitors in that marketing campaigns are tailored to appeal to specific end user s senses as well as to divert their attention towards the vendor s product or service. Moreover the vendor customizes messaging in new ways because the vendor is informed of end users much more than is available in typical prior art market research. For example the vendor may be informed of end users birthdays favorite locations and travel places end users shop and the types of people whom the end users associate. Further the vendor s banner advertisements are also made more relevant to end users because the vendor already knows that end users are either already interested in what the vendor is offering or are visiting a competitor with similar offerings. All of this information is available from a single source and is easy to interpret and use.

In still another prior art example a vendor wants to communicate to end users during a point of sale. In addition to signs or messages that are attached to an RFID Reader when an end user swipes his or her RFID Tag and has SMS communication enabled via their privacy settings online the vendor communicates instantly with the end user at the point of sale. The communication is formatted with promotions sweepstakes marketing messaging or the like or is a basis for SMS based entertainment such as the like the lucky seat promotion described above but not limited to a pre defined set of rules.

Another prior art example regards end user communication such that end users desire to know communicate with friends. All of the end user s friends use RFID Tags and have allowed the end users via their respective privacy settings to see where they at any given moment via the social network so long as the location where they are has and RFID Reader installed and the friends have used it. If so the end user can very quickly determine where people are what they are doing and where they have been. Additionally so long as the users have enabled the option whenever end users provide RFID Tags to a RFID Reader in a respective venue a SMS or Instant Message is instantly transmitted.

In yet another prior art example an end user desires to locate people having similar interests. Since an end user s real world history is documented on the social network the end user can find venues that the end user likes to attend and see who else has attended. From there the end user can look at another individual end user s profile on the social network and determine if he or she has similar interests with a great amount of confidence that their inferred interests are accurate and legitimate.

In yet another prior example an end user wants to publish to his friends that he just attended a great show. In case the location of the show has an RFID Reader and the end user uses his RFID Tag therewith the end user s personal page on the social network is immediately updated to show that the user attended the show thereby providing proof that the end user was there.

In yet another prior example an end user wants to locate a person the end user met at a social gathering such as at a tavern. The tavern is equipped with an RFID Reader and the end user can view the pseudo end user representation of the tavern on the internet web site provided by information processor and can further review past events. In case the person that the end user seeks to find is also an end user and has his her privacy settings set to an appropriate level the end user can find the profile and then contact that person. Preferably a RSS feed represents user activity and enables members to track each other s locations at given times. RSS is useful for example to populate an end user s personal blog or web site or subscribe to a friend s RSS feed to monitor all of that friend s activity pursuant to respective privacy policy. RSS is also available as a conduit for passing end user data to 3party applications including for example video games. In yet another alternative example an end user wants to hear and see other people s experiences at a particular venue where the end user attended. The venue is equipped with an RFID Reader and venue s personal page maintains content submitted by end users such as pictures videos comments and blogs. Since only end users that attended and swiped in with their RFID Tag can post this content for this event even though others can review it the end user is assured that the content is authentic and meaningful. The pseudo end user owner of the venue may also post and edit content of their particular venue. This alternative embodiment is suitable for example for a vendor or other provider of Reader . For example the NATIONAL HOCKEY ASSOCIATION incorporates a website and supports a social network that allows for various functionality shown and described herein.

In yet another alternative example an end user creates a mash up of data combined with particular user provided parameter. For example an internet web site provides a combination of features directed to apartment listings for rent and purchase with directed to graphic mapping functionality. In a preferred embodiment the end user uses APIs and or publicly accessible API s to access anonymous data from the database provided the user have applied for a developer key which carries no user identifiable information. Some information that is collected by Reader is used for example in data extraction and analysis purposes. For example population trends purchasing trends trends of users responding to advertisements or promotions are provided from data received from Reader . Although data received by Reader is preferably although not required to be subject to privacy controls information derived therefrom such as trend related information that does not reveal private or otherwise sensitive information related to a particular user. In one embodiment the extracted data is accessible in the mash up. Thus as shown and described herein a new accessible and current on line social network is defined and supported that includes at least one external hardware component for data reception and transmission. By employing devices an accurate up to the minute information secure network hub is provided that is customizable to support a vast and complex personal and commercial needs. The systems and methods provided herein bridges a gap between virtual social networks which have gained popularity and traction on the internet and with other virtual worlds or internet connected devices with other real world and inter personal relationships and activities experienced by people off line. Moreover it is envisioned that the systems and methods disclosed herein operate as tools to support personal professional and commercial relationships and not exclusively as a substitute therefor. The systems and methods disclosed herein support and are operable with existing commercial marketing vehicles in which users may have previously invested.

Accordingly the systems and methods are applicable for vendors and end users alike. Any organization that is interested in quickly and easily reaching a target audience can benefit from the teachings herein including for example local national retailers entertainment venues e.g. bars clubs or the like public spaces e.g. museums parks or the like and other publicly accessible venues such as venues for conventions conferences and trade shows where professional and personal communities gather. Using the systems and methods disclosed herein vendors can access users at preferred times such as when a user enters an establishment or at the point of sale. Further direct communication can be established with users during times even long after a user has frequented an establishment or venue. Moreover accurate dynamic and rich demographic data are provided for vendors that enables new direct to consumer marketing opportunities that are not available in the prior art. The systems and methods defined herein provide vendors with new customizable automated and current marketing opportunities that are directed to consumers who have already demonstrated an interest or affinity towards the vendor s goods or services. Vendors can also engage in improved data mining of targeted consumers provide point of sale promotions substantially in real time and engage in interactive marketing initiatives. The systems and methods described herein provide power insights and enable vendors to determine patterns and conclusions that were not otherwise able to be made. For example all visitors to a particular venue at a particular time share a particular interest. Users can also use remote communication devices e.g. cellular telephones and PDA s to provide instant feedback to vendors enabling vendors to enjoy benefits associated with instant permission based marketing.

Further individual users such as promotion seeking consumers or socially conscious individuals who have access to cellular or other communications devices and who engage in real world i.e. not virtual social activities. At least partially due to the architecture associated with the teachings herein minimal effort on the part of users is required. Further users enjoy additions or alternatives to existing on line social networks as new forms of entertainment are supported in connection with real world applications. Users can validate social status and enjoy mobility or promotions in social status as a function of the teachings herein by confirming or otherwise verifying non virtual human action and interaction. Moreover users enjoy an extremely low barrier of entry for opt in marketing including for example e mail collection customer loyalty programs promotions or the like.

One way that users are able to enjoy benefits associated with the teachings herein is via a unique identifier defined for each user that is referenced each time RFID Tag is read by RFID Reader . Thereafter the user maintains or otherwise upgrades his position in the dynamic on line social network that is effectively based upon real world social personal and professional activity. As noted above the user is entitled thereafter to exclusive offers and promotions and can enjoy real world self promotion as a function of real world social history. Other advantages provided to a user include locating friends substantially in real time and maintain real world social histories with hubs for socially and professionally significant events at one or more vendors locations. Further privacy controls are provided that preclude access to a particular user s history from other users or vendors.

In alternative embodiments users can enjoy other benefits as a function of the systems and methods provided herein. For example a user can define a list of preferred songs i.e. a playlist that is submitted on an internet web site or other remotely accessible database and when the user enters a vendor s establishment a song defined in the playlist is added automatically to a jukebox queue. Other benefits include defining an automatic alert that alerts other users as to a particular user s location or whereabouts. Further a user can participate in SMS based social games receive special promotions and schedules from one or more vendor establishments while the user is on location. Further vendors may decide to award customer loyalty rewards for users who frequent a particular establishment using RFID tag .

Although the present invention has been described in relation to particular embodiments thereof many other variations and modifications and other uses will become apparent to those skilled in the art. It is preferred therefore that the present invention be limited not by the specific disclosure herein.

