---

title: Method and system for network bandwidth allocation
abstract: A method and system of an embodiment may include a method, comprising receiving, at a computing device, network bandwidth information for a network, receiving, at a computing device, a request for network bandwidth, identifying, at a computing device, one or more portions of network bandwidth to fulfill the request. The method may include provisioning the one or more identified portions of unallocated network bandwidth for the request. The identification may comprise utilizing the network bandwidth information to identify one or more portions of unallocated network bandwidth with sufficient capacity for the request, and determining which of the one or more portions of unallocated network bandwidth will result in less fragmentation of remaining unallocated network bandwidth.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07899072&OS=07899072&RS=07899072
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 07899072
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080930
---
When provisioning bandwidth across a network one or more portions of concatenated network bandwidth may be required. Concatenated network bandwidth may require certain characteristics of bandwidth. For example concatenated bandwidth may require contiguous portions of bandwidth. Network traffic may be allocated as demanded and may be filled with allocated bandwidth of different sizes. This may result in certain portions of bandwidth being allocated with gaps of unused bandwidth between the allocated bandwidth i.e. fragmentation of bandwidth . Because bandwidth may be allocated in specified sizes conforming to standards the gaps of unused bandwidth may not conform to a size which may be provisioned. Even if a gap conforms to a standard size which may be allocated that size may not conform to the size of requests for network bandwidth. This may result in unused or wasted bandwidth.

An exemplary embodiment provides a network bandwidth allocation system. The network bandwidth allocation system may enable efficient usage of one or more portions of network bandwidth.

The description below identifies servers mobile devices and network elements that may include one or more modules some of which are explicitly shown in the figures others that are not. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computing software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other computing devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one computing device and added to another computing device and or may be included in both computing devices.

It is further noted that the software described herein may be tangibly embodied in one or more physical media such as but not limited to a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a hard drive read only memory ROM random access memory RAM as well as other physical media capable of storing software and or combinations thereof. Moreover the figures illustrate various components e.g. servers mobile devices and network elements etc. separately. The functions described as being performed at various components may be performed at other components and the various components may be combined and or separated. Other modifications also may be made.

Referring to a block diagram of a network analysis system in accordance with an exemplary embodiment is illustrated. System illustrates an exemplary system for analysis of a network such as a private network. It is noted that system is a simplified view of a network and may include additional elements that are not depicted. As illustrated network elements and may be communicatively coupled by network paths. Network elements and may be communicatively coupled to other devices such as data storage and the computer .

Network elements and may transmit and or receive data via network paths. The data may be transmitted and or received utilizing a standard telecommunications protocol or a standard networking protocol. For example data may be transmitted and or received using Wireless Application Protocol WAP Multimedia Messaging Service MMS Enhanced Messaging Service EMS Short Message Service SMS Global System for Mobile Communications GSM based systems Code Division Multiple Access CDMA based systems Transmission Control Protocol Internet TCP IP Protocols TL1 SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol or other protocols and or systems suitable for transmitting and receiving data. Data may be transmitted and or received wirelessly or may utilize cabled network connections or telecom connections such as an Ethernet RJ45 Category 5 Ethernet connection a fiber connection a traditional phone wireline connection a cable connection or other wired network connection. Network elements and may use standard wireless protocols including IEEE 802.11a 802.11b and 802.11g. Network elements and may also be communicatively coupled via protocols for a wired connection such as an IEEE Ethernet 802.3.

Network paths between network elements and may be network connections utilizing Ethernet Multi Protocol Label Switching MPLS based Ethernet Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Synchronous Optical Networking SONET Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH Plesiochronous Digital Hierarchy PDH Digital Subscriber Line DSL Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line ADSL Symmetric Digital Subscriber Line SDSL Fiber To The Premises FTTP cable modem broadband leased line Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN dial up satellite wireless networking broadband over power lines and or other network technologies.

Network elements and may be one or more routers switches hubs computing devices and or other network connectivity devices capable of transmitting and or receiving network data. Network elements and may include one or more processors not shown for recording transmitting receiving and or storing data. Although network elements and are each depicted as single network connectivity devices it should be appreciated that the contents of network elements and may be combined into fewer or greater numbers of network connectivity devices and may be connected to one or more data storage systems such as data storage . Furthermore network elements and may be local remote or a combination thereof to each other. Network elements and may be different portions of a network such as Add Drop Multiplexers ADM regenerators optical amplifiers Digital Cross Connect Systems DCS edge nodes core nodes customer premise equipment a hubbing node edge devices and integrated access devices or other network connectivity devices.

Network elements and may provide application programming interfaces APIs interface tables Remote Procedure Calls RPCs web services Extensible Markup Language XML based interfaces Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP based interfaces Common Request Broker Architecture CORBA based interfaces SONET based interfaces and other interfaces for sending or receiving network information.

Data storage may be network accessible storage. Data storage may be local remote or a combination thereof to network elements and . Data storage may utilize a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID a redundant array of inexpensive nodes RAIN tape disk a storage area network SAN and or other computer accessible storage. In one or more embodiments data storage may be a database such as an Oracle database a Microsoft SQL Server database a DB2 database a MySQL database a Sybase database an object oriented database a hierarchical database and or another database.

Data storage may store files which may contain network information utilized to manage network bandwidth report on network bandwidth or provide other network management functionality. Data storage may store data received from user input a network management system a network provisioning system a management information base a network services ordering system a database a file a web service and or an application programming interface. In one or more embodiments data storage may be a management information base.

The computer may be a desktop computer a laptop computer a server a computing device or other computer capable of performing private network backbone analysis. The computer may receive data from user input a network management system a network provisioning system a management information base a network services ordering system a database a file a web service an application programming interface and or another interface capable of receiving network data. The computer may query other systems and or local or remote storage such as data storage to obtain network information.

The computer may provide a user interface to enable network bandwidth management and or allocation. The user interface may enable a user to input data edit data or view data related to network traffic network bandwidth and or one or more network paths. In one or more embodiments the user interface may display available and or allocated bandwidth on one or more network fibers or SONET lines. The computer may display a map chart table or other data showing available timeslots and or allocated timeslots for a particular fiber or SONET line. The computer may enable a user to provision bandwidth by allocating one or more timeslots or containers. Allocating one or more timeslots may be done by a user selecting the one or more timeslots via the user interface. The computer may enable a user to allocate contiguous timeslots which may provide concatenated bandwidth for services such as STS 3c Synchronous Transport Signal 3 concatenated STS 12c STS 48c STS 192c etc. For example the computer may enable a user to allocate three contiguous timeslots of an OC Optical Carrier 48 for use by a STS 3c. The computer may also enable the provisioning of single timeslots or containers such as STS 1.

In addition to provisioning the computer may enable the migration of services from one portion of bandwidth to a second portion of bandwidth. For example the computer may enable the migration of allocated bandwidth from one or more timeslots to other timeslots. The migration of bandwidth or regrooming of bandwidth may enable the computer to reduce fragmentation of bandwidth on a fiber optic line. Fragmentation may be considered the allocation of bandwidth on a network path such as a fiber line in a manner that leaves gaps of unused or unallocated bandwidth between the used or allocated bandwidth. Because bandwidth may be allocated in contiguous portions or timeslots for concatenated services gaps having fewer than the required number of timeslots may not be utilized by concatenated services. For example the provisioning of a STS 3c circuit may require three contiguous timeslots and the provisioning of a STS 12c may require twelve contiguous timeslots. Thus the allocation of bandwidth of a fiber optic line in a manner that leaves only portions of bandwidth with two or fewer timeslots may prevent the provisioning of higher speed circuits. Timeslots arranged in groups of two or fewer may be unused unless they are used by an STS 1 circuit. The computer may thus enable a user to regroom some fiber lines by migrating or re provisioning bandwidth to eliminate wasted timeslots.

In order to avoid fragmentation the computer may use one or more methods processes hardware components and or portions of executable code to automatically allocate bandwidth. The one or more methods processes hardware components and or portions of executable code may avoid the random allocation of bandwidth which may result in fragmentation. For example the computer may allocate timeslots. Timeslots may be allocated by the computer executing different code or utilizing different hardware components depending on the type of bandwidth required. Individual timeslots such as STS 1 circuits may be allocated differently than circuits requiring concatenated bandwidth. In one or more embodiments the determination of which of the one or more portions of unallocated bandwidth may result in less fragmentation of remaining unallocated network bandwidth may identify the highest numbered portion of unallocated bandwidth in the lowest quarter of network bandwidth which contains sufficient unallocated network bandwidth for the request. For example the computer when provisioning an STS 1 on an OC 192 may look first at timeslot forty eight and may then look at lower numbered timeslots if timeslot forty eight is allocated. If the first forty eight timeslots are allocated the computer may look at the next quarter of bandwidth or timeslots ninety six through forty nine in that order. When provisioning concatenated bandwidth the computer may use one or more methods processes hardware components and or portions of executable code. In one or more embodiments the determination of which portion of unallocated bandwidth may result in less fragmentation of remaining unallocated network bandwidth may identify a number corresponding to a starting point of one or more portions of contiguous bandwidth by calculating n Integer 1 1 wherein n may represent the number of contiguous bandwidth portions requested and Integer may be a specified integer. For example the computer when provisioning an STS 3c may specify two as an integer. Thus the computer may calculate 3 2 1 1 4 and utilize the fourth timeslot for the start of the STS 3c. Because concatenated services such as STS 3c may require contiguous bandwidth the computer may allocate timeslots four five and six to accommodate the STS 3c. If one of the timeslots is allocated the computer may increment the integer and may test the next three derived timeslots. The computer may utilize this process for other speeds of circuits such as STS 12c and STS 48c. Other methods processes hardware components and or portions of executable code may also be utilized.

In one or more embodiments the computer may perform regrooming or migration of existing bandwidth in order to defragment unallocated bandwidth. The computer may first analyze existing allocated and unallocated bandwidth. The computer may then generate a migration or regrooming plan to defragment unallocated bandwidth. Implementation of a plan may be designed to minimize the service disruption which may be caused by the migration of one or more portions of allocated bandwidth. For example the migration may be scheduled on off peak times and or during a scheduled maintenance window. In some embodiments migration may use bridge and roll capabilities of optical networking equipment which may reduce a service disruption. In one or more embodiments the computer may enable certain portions of bandwidth such as that allocated for a particular client or purpose to be marked to indicate that the marked portion of bandwidth is not to be migrated. The computer may also enable the marking of portions of bandwidth which are to be migrated.

In one or more embodiments migration of bandwidth may be achieved by first migrating smaller portions of bandwidth. For example the STS 1 circuits which are provisioned in lower timeslots may be moved first. In some embodiments the STS 1 circuits may be moved to the highest available timeslot in the lowest quarter of bandwidth with unallocated bandwidth. After moving one or more circuits with lower bandwidth circuits with higher bandwidth may be migrated. For example STS 3c circuits may be migrated using one or more methods processes hardware components and or portions of executable code. In some embodiments migration of bandwidth may occur by moving progressively larger classes of bandwidth such as first moving STS 1 circuits then moving STS 3c circuits subsequently moving STS 12c circuits etc.

In some embodiments the fragmentation of network bandwidth may be analyzed by portions such as quarters prior to any migration. For example if the lowest quarter of a fiber line is below a certain portion of fragmentation migration may not occur in that quarter. The computer may analyze the first forty eight slots of an OC 192 and may determine if fragmentation is below a specified level in that quarter of the bandwidth. If fragmentation is below a specified level then no circuits in that quarter may be migrated. The computer may then analyze a next quarter of bandwidth. In some embodiments the computer may backfill fragmented bandwidth by moving one or more circuits into unallocated slots into the portion of a line that is fragmented. For example the computer may identify three non contiguous unallocated timeslots in the first forty eight slots of an OC 192. The computer may then identify three STS 1 circuits in the top quarter of the OC 192 i.e. slots . The three identified circuits in the top quarter of the OC 192 may then be migrated to backfill the identified gaps. The computer may start with the higher slots and work backwards. These circuits may be migrated to the identified unallocated slots in the lowest quarter of the OC 192. The circuits in the top quarter of the OC 192 may then be coalesced by one or more migrations. The coalescing may provide three contiguous timeslots in the top quarter which may enable the provisioning of an STS 3c. The same backfilling may be done using circuits of higher speeds such as STS 3c circuits if the identified unallocated slots in the lower bandwidth contain three or more contiguous slots. In some embodiments groups of contiguous STS 1 circuits may be identified to migrate to disparate unallocated slots. This may result in a larger range of contiguous bandwidth and may enable the provisioning of larger circuits.

In some embodiments the provisioning of network bandwidth and or the migration of network bandwidth may be implemented by networking equipment. For example network elements and may be Add Drop Multiplexers ADMs . Network elements and or may provision network bandwidth using one or more processes hardware and or executing one or more portions of code designed to reduce fragmentation of unallocated bandwidth. In one or more embodiments network elements and or may utilize one or more methods processes hardware components and or portions of executable code to migrate bandwidth in order to reduce fragmentation of unallocated bandwidth.

The computer may produce a report a listing a display an email or otherwise provide information associated with bandwidth allocation and or fragmentation. The computer may also generate a report or other listing associated with a planned migration or regrooming schedule. This may enable the scheduling of one or more outages and the notification of one or more users.

The various components of system as shown in may be further duplicated combined and or integrated to support various applications and platforms. Additional elements may also be implemented in the systems described above to support various applications.

Referring to a block diagram of a module for allocating network bandwidth is depicted in accordance with an exemplary embodiment. As illustrated network provisioning module may contain network infrastructure identification module bandwidth allocation module bandwidth migration module error handling module and reporting module . Network provisioning module may be implemented on the computer of system or on network elements and or . In some embodiments different portions may be implemented on different network elements.

Network provisioning module may utilize one or more components to allocate network bandwidth. Network provisioning module may also enable the migration and or regrooming of network bandwidth.

Network infrastructure identification module may receive data associated with allocated and unallocated network bandwidth for one or more network links. Network infrastructure identification module may receive data via an interface or by user input. Network infrastructure identification module may query other network components such as a management information base in order to identify network bandwidth. Network infrastructure identification module may analyze allocated and unallocated bandwidth and may provide information and statistics on bandwidth allocation.

Bandwidth allocation module may receive one or more requests for network provisioning. Bandwidth allocation module may utilize one or more processes hardware components and or portions of executable code to identify one or more portions of unallocated bandwidth to provision a requested network connection. Bandwidth allocation module may utilize different processes hardware components and or portions of executable code to manage provisioning of bandwidth depending on the speed of a connection whether the connection requires concatenated bandwidth the topology of the network and or other network or provisioning request attributes.

Bandwidth migration module may determine fragmentation of bandwidth and may generate one or more migration or regrooming plans for the bandwidth. Bandwidth migration module may identify one or more network connections that may be migrated times for migration of circuits users impacted by the migration of one or more network connections potential bandwidth coalesced by the migration of one or more network connections and or other migration information. Bandwidth migration module may execute one or more commands to migrate bandwidth.

Error handling module may handle one or more errors encountered when analyzing provisioning migrating and or reporting on network bandwidth. For example error handling module may handle errors related to network bandwidth data input errors associated with insufficient bandwidth for provisioning and or migration and or other errors.

Reporting module may produce one or more reports containing bandwidth allocation information bandwidth fragmentation information bandwidth migration plans bandwidth provisioning plans and or other network information. Reports may be printed web based sent in a text message or email or stored as a file. Formatting options may enable the generation of one or more routing tables outage notifications or other products.

At block network bandwidth may be analyzed. Network bandwidth may be received via an interface via user input and or queried from one or more systems. Analysis of network bandwidth may include identification of a type of bandwidth available such as an optical carrier line. Network bandwidth may be analyzed by the computer network element and or of system . Network bandwidth may also be analyzed by network infrastructure identification module of .

At block the amount of unallocated and or allocated bandwidth may be determined. In one or more embodiments the level of bandwidth fragmentation may also be determined. In one or more embodiments fragmentation may be determined per portion of bandwidth such as per quarter of timeslots on a fiber line. Network bandwidth fragmentation may be analyzed by the computer network element and or of system . Network bandwidth fragmentation may also be analyzed by one or more components network provisioning module of .

At block the method may receive a bandwidth provisioning request from a user. For example the computer may receive a bandwidth provisioning request input by a user at a user interface of the computer or sent electronically via another interface.

At block the method may determine whether adequate bandwidth is available to provision the requested network connection. The method may compare the requested bandwidth with unallocated network bandwidth. In some embodiments the computer may compare the requested bandwidth with data associated with unallocated bandwidth stored on data storage . If adequate bandwidth is not available the method may continue at block . If adequate bandwidth is available the method may continue at block .

At block the method may determine if the request for provisioning requires concatenated bandwidth and if the available bandwidth is contiguous. For example if the request is for the provisioning of a STS 3c circuit the method may determine if in the available bandwidth three contiguous timeslots are available for provisioning. The computer may compare the required contiguous timeslots for a requested circuit with the number of contiguous timeslots available. If insufficient contiguous bandwidth is available for the provisioning request the method may continue at block . If sufficient contiguous bandwidth is available the method may continue at block .

At block the method may utilize one or more bandwidth allocation processes hardware components and or portions of executable code to identify one or more potential portions of bandwidth for provisioning the requested network connection. For example bandwidth may be divided into one or more portions of contiguous timeslots to ensure that timeslots are allocated with sufficient space between them to allow the provisioning of subsequently provisioned circuits. Circuits requiring a single timeslot may be provisioned in a higher portion of the bandwidth to reduce fragmentation. In one or more embodiments bandwidth may be divided into multiple portions and network connections of different types may be provisioned into different portions. The computer may identify one or more potential portions of network bandwidth for provisioning. One or more components of network provisioning module may also identify one or more potential portions of network bandwidth for provisioning.

At block the method may determine whether one or more portions of identified bandwidth are available for provisioning e.g. unallocated . The computer may determine whether one or more of the identified portions of network bandwidth are available for provisioning. One or more components of network provisioning module may also determine whether one or more of the identified portions of network bandwidth are available for provisioning. If the identified bandwidth is not available the method may continue at block . If the identified bandwidth is available the method may continue at block .

At block the method may use an alternate process use an alternate hardware component or revise a scope of analyzed bandwidth in an existing process. For example the method may analyze a higher quarter of bandwidth for available bandwidth may increment an integer in a process utilized to identify available bandwidth may select an alternative process for identifying bandwidth may reset one or more variables may utilize alternate hardware components configured to analyze a different bandwidth or may perform other actions to identify alternative bandwidth. The computer may increment a variable in a process use an alternate hardware component or identify an alternative process. One or more components of network provisioning module may also increment a variable in a process use an alternate hardware component or identify an alternative process. The method may then return to block .

At block the method may provision the requested network connection in the identified bandwidth. The computer may provision the requested network connection. One or more components of network provisioning module may also provision the requested network connection. Provisioning may utilize one or more network components such as Add Drop Multiplexers ADM . In one or more embodiments network elements and or may be Add Drop Multiplexers ADM . The computer may communicate with one or more network elements to allocate one or more timeslots to provision the requested network connection. In some embodiments network elements and or may perform one or more steps of method and may subsequently provision the requested network connection.

At block the method may analyze network bandwidth. Data associated with network bandwidth allocation may be received from one or more network components and or queried from one or more network components. The network bandwidth allocation data may then be analyzed by the computer and or one or more components of network provisioning module .

At block the method may determine a level of fragmentation a percentage of bandwidth allocation or other metrics of provisioned network bandwidth. Analysis may be performed by the computer and or network provisioning module . If bandwidth fragmentation is below a specified level and or other metrics are met then the provisioned bandwidth may conform and the method may continue at block . If bandwidth fragmentation is above a specified level and or other metrics are not met then the method may continue at block .

At block the method may determine whether the bandwidth may be regroomed and or migrated. This may involve determining whether one or more service disruptions or outages may be acceptable to users of existing network connections. This may also involve determining whether it is possible to bridge and roll one or more network connections to minimize service disruptions. The determination may also be based on whether available bandwidth exists to migrate allocated bandwidth. The computer may determine whether the bandwidth may be regroomed and or migrated. One or more components of network provisioning module may also determine whether the bandwidth may be regroomed and or migrated.

At block the method may identify one or more portions of bandwidth to migrate. This may be done on the basis of available unallocated bandwidth to migrate to on the basis of the potential impact of such a migration on the potential decrease in fragmentation and or on other factors. In some embodiments smaller portions of bandwidth provisioned on a lower portion of bandwidth may be identified to migrate first. In some embodiments the location or other characteristics of provisioned bandwidth may be run through a provisioning process hardware component and or executable code module to determine whether the current allocation adheres to one or more specifications. The computer and or one or more components of network provisioning module may identify one or more portions of bandwidth to migrate.

At block the method may utilize a bandwidth allocation process hardware component and or executable code module to identify a target location for migrating identified bandwidth. Different bandwidth allocation processes hardware components and or executable code modules may be utilized based on different connection types different bandwidth types e.g. optical carrier lines T1 lines etc and other factors. In one or more embodiments the usage of one or more portions of allocated bandwidth may be characterized. For example certain provisioned circuits may be marked to avoid migration due to user concerns about any potential service disruption.

At block the method may determine whether the target bandwidth is available e.g. unallocated . The computer and or one or more components of network provisioning module may determine whether target bandwidth is available. If the target bandwidth is not available the method may continue at block . If the target bandwidth is available the method may continue at block .

At block the method may use an alternate process or revise a scope of analyzed bandwidth in an existing process. For example the method may analyze a higher quarter of bandwidth for available bandwidth may increment an integer in a process utilized to identify target bandwidth may select an alternative process hardware component and or executable code module for identifying target bandwidth may reset one or more variables or may perform other actions to identify alternative target bandwidth. The computer and or one or more components of network provisioning module may increment a variable in a process and or select an alternative process. The method may then return to block .

At block the method may provision the identified bandwidth in the target bandwidth. In one or more embodiments provisioning may occur at off peak times to minimize any potential service disruption. In one or more embodiments migrating may utilize a bridge and roll capability of networking equipment and or other features to minimize service disruptions.

At block the method may determine whether further regrooming and or bandwidth migration is possible and or desirable. In one or more embodiments this may be realized by determining a fragmentation level for the bandwidth such as the percentage of fragmentation of allocated and or unallocated bandwidth on a fiber line. If the fragmentation is above a specified level or if other metrics are not satisfied the method may continue at block . If the fragmentation is below a specified level or if other metrics are satisfied the method may continue at block . The computer and or one or more components of network provisioning module may determine whether further regrooming and or bandwidth migration is possible and or desirable.

In one or more embodiments may represent the first forty timeslots of an OC 48 line. The first column may indicate the timeslot number. The second through twelfth columns may indicate an exemplary provisioning of a particular circuit speed. The first row may indicate the type of circuit being provisioned in that column the requested circuit e.g. STS 12c STS 3c STS 1 etc. . The characters in a timeslot may indicate the timeslots or containers have previously been provisioned. The character X in a timeslot may indicate that the timeslot is being used to provision the requested circuit for that column. For example in column an STS 12c is being provisioned. No prior allocations have been made in the 40 timeslots i.e. no timeslots are marked with so timeslots one through twelve may provide the twelve contiguous timeslots required for the STS 12c. In one or more embodiments the determination of which of the one or more portions of unallocated bandwidth may result in less fragmentation of remaining unallocated network bandwidth may identify a number corresponding to a starting point of one or more portions of contiguous bandwidth for the request by calculating n Integer 1 1 wherein n may represent the number of contiguous bandwidth portions requested and Integer may be a specified integer. In the example of column the specified integer may be 1 and thus the calculation may result in a starting timeslot being calculated as 12 1 1 1 1 where 1 has been specified as the integer and 12 has been substituted for n. Hence this may result in a starting timeslot of 1. Other methods processes hardware components and or portions of executable code may be utilized.

Referring to column an exemplary provisioning of an STS 3c is depicted according to an exemplary embodiment. As depicted in column the first twelve slots may be occupied by previously provisioned bandwidth. The determination of timeslot as a starting timeslot for the STS 3c may be represented as 3 5 1 1 13. Thus the determination may have been made that timeslots and as derived utilizing integers 1 4 in the above formula have previously been allocated for other circuits. In one or more embodiments this determination may be made by the computer of iterating through the calculations and comparing the results with data representing allocated and or unallocated bandwidth.

Columns and may be examples of provisioning STS 1 circuits according to an embodiment. STS 1 circuits may be provisioned into the highest numbered portion of unallocated bandwidth in the lowest quarter of network bandwidth which contains sufficient unallocated network bandwidth. may depict the first forty slots of OC 48 and thus the lowest quarter of the bandwidth may be timeslots the next highest quarter may be timeslots . In column the first twelve timeslots may be previously allocated thus the STS 1 may be provisioned in timeslot the highest timeslot of the second lowest quarter. In column timeslots and may be previously allocated and thus the STS 1 may be provisioned in timeslot . Similar logic may be utilized to derive the timeslots for the examples depicted in columns and .

Column may be an exemplary provisioning of a STS 12c circuit. As depicted columns and may have previously been allocated for other circuits. The determination of timeslot as a starting timeslot for the STS 12c may be represented as 12 3 1 1 25. In this example three may have been utilized as an integer because lower integers may have yielded previously allocated or unavailable timeslots. In one or more embodiments other methods processes hardware components and or portions of executable code may be utilized. Similar logic may be utilized to provision bandwidth on other sizes of fiber optic lines such as OC 192s OC 768s etc. Additionally similar logic may be utilized to provision other types of circuits such as STS 48cs STS 192cs etc.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

