---

title: System and method for rapid presentation of structured digital content items
abstract: Methods, systems, and products are disclosed for presenting structured digital content items. A file is read that defines a hierarchical structure. A display region is divided into regions and each region is mapped to a category within the hierarchical structure. An x-coordinate and a y-coordinate, corresponding to a location on the display, are received. The category that maps to the x-coordinate and the y-coordinate is displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07730397&OS=07730397&RS=07730397
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 07730397
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080721
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 895 989 filed Jun. 29 2001 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 404 142 and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to the field of computer software. More particularly the present invention relates to computer software for rapid presentation of digital content items that can be arranged in a structured or hierarchical manner.

Today there are numerous situations in which digital content items e.g. files text graphics etc. are arranged in a structured or hierarchical manner. For example file directories provide a hierarchical structure in which files are organized. In a typical file directory viewing program upon receiving a selection of a particular directory of the file directory files and sub directories of the selected directory are typically displayed on a user interface. A user may then either select a displayed file or select a displayed sub directory. If a displayed sub directory is selected files and sub directories of the selected sub directory are typically displayed on a user interface. In this manner a user may search through various layers a file directory that organizes files in a hierarchical structure.

Many other hierarchical structures exist for organizing digital content items. In the context of a business directory for example business names are arranged by categories and often also by sub categories. Examples of business categories include banks hotels restaurants and the like. As an example of sub categories the restaurant category may have sub categories of Chinese restaurants Italian restaurants and the like. In this manner business names may be organized into the hierarchical structure in a logical manner allowing a user to more easily locate a desired business name.

Despite improvements in software the presentation of structured digital content items is still a very time consuming process. For example to view digital content to items in an advertisement compilation such as an electronic Yellow Pages telephone directory a user may navigate through a series of complex screens and drop down menus to find and view a particular advertisement. Alternatively a user may search on particular keywords and then scroll through the search results to view a particular advertisement. This may take a multitude of keystrokes until the desired advertisement is found.

Further with conventional systems and methods the order of displaying categories and digital content items remains constant. That is each time a user navigates through the series of complex screens and drop down menus the same ordering of categories and digital content items is used. Therefore even if a user typically searches for and selects Italian restaurants the user may have to spend a long time searching through the entire list of restaurant categories before reaching the Italian restaurant category. Each time the user searches for a particular category or digital content item the user searches through the entire list of categories or digital content items in their original order.

In view of the foregoing there is a need for a system and method for rapid presentation of structured content.

The present invention is directed to the rapid presentation of structured digital content items using a pointing device to quickly view categories and digital content items within the categories.

According to one aspect of the present invention a structure file defines a hierarchical structure and a plurality of content files each define a set of digital content items. Each content file can be related to a position within the hierarchical structure thereby organizing the digital content items into the hierarchical structure. To present categories and digital content items rapidly categories are read from the structure file and sets of digital content items are read from each content file. The categories are mapped to areas on a display. Continuously a location on the display is received via a pointing device and a category corresponding to the received location is displayed. Further a selection of a location on the display is received. The selection corresponds to a particular category based on the mapped areas. The content files corresponding to the particular category are read and mapped to areas on the display. Continuously a location on the display is received via a pointing device and the digital content items corresponding to the content file mapped to that location are displayed.

According to another aspect of the present invention user preferences are stored and used to intelligently display categories and sets of digital content items. A user selection of a category or digital content items is received and stored. The selection may be stored in the structure file one of the content files a preference file or the like. The selection may be stored in the form of a counter that indicates how many times a category or set of digital content items has been selected. In this manner categories and sets of digital content items may be prioritized based on a number of selections. Alternatively the selection may be stored in the form of a user name and selection time. In this manner categories and sets of digital content may be prioritized based on a user and a time.

The above listed features as well as other features of the present invention will be more fully set forth hereinafter.

The present invention is directed to the rapid presentation of structured digital content items using a pointing device to quickly view categories and digital content items within the categories.

As shown in computing device may be connected to computer network . Server is operable to communicate with other computing devices over network . Network may be the Internet a local area network a wide area network or the like. Server may communicate e mails web pages and other data. Server may be operated by an ISP a corporate computer department or any other organization or person with a server connected to network . Server is accessible by client stations from which users may send and receive data and browse web pages. Client stations may connect to servers via a local area network not shown or using a remote connection device such as for example a modem as is shown in connection with server .

In addition to the structure as described above sets of digital content items are associated with the structure. Digital content items may include a text string a text file a graphical image file an audio file and the like. A content file may be used to group several digital content items and to relate the group or set of digital content items to the structure. The term content file is defined herein as a file containing a digital content item or a reference to a digital content item and a relationship to a structure file.

To explain further a content file may contain a digital content item and or a reference to a digital content item. For example if the digital content item is a text string of 123 456 7890 the content file may simply contain the text string 123 456 7890. If the digital content item is a graphical image file for example a .jpg file the content file may contain the location of the file for example c phonenumbers 1234567890.jpg. In either event the content file allows an application to access the digital content item either directly or indirectly.

Content files also link the set of digital content items to the structure file such that each content file can be related to the hierarchy implemented by the structure file. For example XML files may be linked to the DTD file such that each XML file has a business category tag therein which relates the file to a layer within the DTD file hierarchy. XML files having a business category tag of restaurant may include a restaurant sub category tag such as Chinese Italian Greek and the like. In this manner each content file can be related to the hierarchy implemented by the structure file and therefore each set of digital content items can be related to the hierarchy.

For purposes of illustration four content files are provided below. While the content files below are illustrated as XML files it is contemplated that the content file may be any file containing a digital content item or a reference to a digital content item and a relationship to a structure file. As shown below each file identifies an Italian restaurant and has the appropriate XML tags to place the restaurant in the appropriate location within the hierarchy defined in the DTD file above.

Thus each of the illustrative content files A B C and D contains a business category tag set to restaurant and a restaurant category tag set to Italian . As such all four content files includes tags that fall within the hierarchy defined in the illustrative structure file. Pairing the content files with the structure file allows for the rapid display of the digital content items as described in more detail below.

Referring back to at step processor reads the categories of the first layer from the structure file. In the context of the illustrative embodiment processor reads four business categories automobile dealer bank hotel and restaurant from the DTD file

At step processor maps each category to an area of display device . In this illustration since there are four categories processor divides the display device into four regions by dividing the maximum number of x pixels on display device by two and the maximum number of y pixels by two to obtain threshold values. For example for a 800 x pixel by 600 y pixel display the 800 x pixels are divided by two resulting in a threshold value of four hundred and the 600 y pixels are divided by two resulting in a threshold value of three hundred. These threshold values divide display device into regions or quadrants in the case of four categories and each region is associated with a category. In this manner processor maps from a pointer location to a selected category based upon the threshold values and the pointer location.

Alternatively if the number of categories or content files is very large the categories or content files may be mapped to a pixel location rather than an area of the display device. To implement this mapping a single number can be derived from the x pointer and y pointer location according to x pixel location y pixel location maximum x pixels and each derived number may then be mapped to a corresponding category or content file.

The mapping of the categories to a particular region may be based upon any number of criteria including a predefined order of category names an alphabetical ordering of the category names or the like. Alternatively the mapping may be performed based on a stored user preference as described in more detail below.

At step processor receives an x coordinate and a y coordinate corresponding to a location on display device . The x y coordinate pair is defined by a pointing device which may be a mouse a touch screen a light pen or other pointing device.

At step processor causes a category to be displayed on display device corresponding to the location received from the pointing device. The category may be displayed as a display instance. A display instance is defined herein as digital information in a format which may be sent to a display device for displaying. The display instance may contain for example plain text and or a graphical bitmap. In either case the category is displayed on display device . provides an illustration of the category display instances that are displayed as a result of the DTD file specified above. As shown in processor displays instance Automobile Dealer in response to receiving location from the pointing device. Processor displays instance Bank in response to receiving location from the pointing device. Processor displays instance Hotel in response to receiving location from the pointing device. Processor displays instance Restaurant in response to receiving location from the pointing device.

A style definition may be applied to the category name for creating and displaying the instance. For example an extensible style language XSL file may be applied to the category name such that the category name is displayed in bold font style in italic font style in 12 point font size and the like. In this manner the display instance may be made more appealing.

Referring back to at step processor determines if a selection is received from the pointing device. If a selection is received the currently displayed category is the selected category and the processing proceeds to step . If a selection is not received processor returns to step to receive another pointer location and to display another category instance. Processor continually returns to step until a selection is received or processing is otherwise halted.

At step processor determines if there is another layer of the hierarchy below the selected category as defined by the structure file. If there is no layer below the selected category processor proceeds to step described below. If there is a layer below the selected category processor performs steps through again with respect to the layer below the selected category i.e. a layer containing sub categories . For example if the selected category is restaurant processor proceeds back to step and reads from the structure file the sub categories in the layer below restaurant. As defined in the illustrative structure file the layer below restaurant includes three sub categories Chinese Italian and Greek. At this point processor proceeds again through steps through and determines if a sub category has been selected.

At step processor reads a set of digital content items corresponding to the selected category. Particularly processor reads each set of digital content items that is mapped to the selected category. This might be accomplished for example by reading the content files for the selected sub category. In the context of the illustrative structure file if the selected category is sub category Italian restaurant processor reads sets of digital content items corresponding to the sub category Italian restaurant. Particularly in the example processor reads the four content files A B C and D described above since all four files have a business category of restaurant and a restaurant sub category of Italian.

In the present embodiment at step processor also creates a display instance for each set of digital content items in advance of proceeding to the next step. By creating the display instances all at once processor is efficiently utilized and the user may quickly view many different display instances. That is while the user is proceeding to the next step processor is already creating the display instances that will be used in the next step. Therefore once the user begins using the pointing device to view display instances the display instances need only be sent to the display rather than being created and then being sent to the display. However due to computing limitations of computing device or other design concerns processor may alternatively create only one display instance at a time in response to a received pointer location.

According to another implementation processor may begin creating display instances and proceed to step while concurrently completing the creation of the remaining instances. In this implementation the user will not be delayed from proceeding to the next step however some display instances may be slower to appear on the display device. This implementation may be preferred in some cases due to computing limitations of computing device or other design concerns. For example this implementation may be preferred if content files are being read from network .

In yet another implementation the display instances are created beforehand by processor or another processor for example accessible over network and are mapped to the content files.

At step processor maps each set of digital content items to an area of display device . In this example since there are four content files i.e. four XML files corresponding to the selected category processor divides display device into four regions by dividing the maximum number of x pixels on display device by two and the maximum number of y pixels by two to obtain threshold values. These threshold values divide display device into regions and each region is associated with a set of digital content items. In this manner processor maps from a pointer location to a set of digital content items based upon the threshold values and the pointer location. Processor may also map each set of digital content items to pixel location as described above in step .

The mapping of the sets of digital content items to a particular region may be based upon any number of criteria including a predefined order of content files an alphabetical ordering of the content files or the like. Alternatively the mapping may be performed based on a stored user preference as described in more detail below.

At step processor receives an x coordinate and a y coordinate corresponding to a location on display device . At step processor causes a set of digital content items to be displayed on display device . The set of digital content items is based upon the received location from the pointing device. The set of digital content items may be displayed as a display instance. provides an illustrative example of display instances that may be displayed as a consequence of the content files described above. As shown in processor displays instance which corresponds to content file A in response to receiving location from the pointing device. Processor displays instance which corresponds to content file B in response to receiving location from the pointing device. Processor displays instance which corresponds to content file C in response to receiving location from the pointing device. Processor displays instance which corresponds to content file D in response to receiving location from the pointing device.

A style may also be applied to each digital content item for displaying the display instance. For example an XSL file may be applied to each XML file thereby creating a display instance for each digital content item. The XSL file may apply bold font style italic font style 12 point font size or any other stylistic feature to each XML file. In this manner the display instances may be made more appealing. As shown an italic font style is applied to the description of display instance . XSL files may be predetermined and stored on hard drive memory server or the like.

A content file may contain a graphic file or a reference to a graphic file. If so processor reads the graphic file and creates a display instance containing a graphic image corresponding to the graphic file. In this manner the display instance may contain graphic images which may make the advertisement more appealing to a user.

Referring again to at step processor determines if a selection is received from the pointing device. If a selection is received the currently displayed set of digital content items is the selected set of digital content items and the processing ends. If a selection is not received processor returns to step to receive another pointer location and to display another display instance. Once a set of digital content items is selected processor marks the set as selected and may perform further processing as described in more detail below. A selection may be a release from a touch screen a click of a mouse button or the like.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a user s preferences may be stored and used in displaying categories and digital content items. is a flow diagram of a method for storing user preferences for viewing digital content items. As shown in at step processor receives a selection of a category or a set of digital content items as described in step or above. At step processor stores an indication corresponding to the selected category or set of digital content items.

Processor may store the indication in a preference file. In the case that a category is selected processor creates an entry in a preference file identifying that the user has selected a particular category. Each time the category is subsequently selected processor increments a counter of the number of times that the particular category has been selected. For example if a user has selected the restaurant category processor creates an entry that the restaurant category was selected. If the restaurant category is selected again processor increments the counter to identify that the restaurant category has been selected twice. Each time a user selects a category processor stores more information about the user s preferences. As such processor becomes more intelligent regarding the preferences of the user and may make the user s interactions with the processor more efficient. The file in which the preference data is stored the preference file may be a text file a spreadsheet or any file containing information representing a category and a counter of the number of times a category is selected. The preference file may be stored on hard drive on server or the like. If the preference file is stored on server the preference file is named such that it may be related to a particular user. In this manner the preferences of multiple users may be maintained and thus the preferences of one user may be distinguished from the preferences of other users.

In an alternative implementation user preferences are stored in the structure and or content files. For example in the structure file described above if a user selects the Italian restaurant category processor may store the following entry in the structure file 

With respect to storing user preferences for sets of content items the entry may be stored directly in the content file. For example in content file B described above if a user selects Dino s processor may store the following entry in the content file 

Thus using either separate preference files or entries in the structure and or content files user preferences are stored and employed during the mapping process to make the system more user friendly. provides a flow chart of a process for mapping structure and content using user preference data. Referring to at step to display a category or a set of digital content items processor reads the user s preferences. At step the categories or sets of digital content items are mapped to a region of display device based on the user preferences. In particular categories or sets of digital content items that have previously been selected by the user are mapped to a particular region of display device . For example categories that have previously been selected may be mapped to the upper right hand region of display device . In this manner a user may point to the upper right hand region and view categories that have been previously selected. Processor may also use the date and time of the stored selection to map from categories or sets of digital content items to a region of display device . For example processor may only map a category to a particular region if the category has been selected within a predefined amount of time. Employing these preferences a user can quickly locate items that were previously selected.

Thus there has been described a system and method for rapidly presenting structured digital content items using a pointing device to quickly preview categories and digital content items. The user may quickly preview many display instances of structured digital content items without having to navigate through a series of drop down menus. In this manner a user may search through structured digital content items very quickly and very simply. It is not required to maneuver through a multiplicity of drop down menus via multiple keystrokes rather a user simply uses a touch screen or a mouse to quickly scroll through structured digital content items. By making a selection e.g. by releasing a finger from a touch screen or clicking the mouse the user may move down one layer in the hierarchy implemented by the structure file or may select a desired set of digital content items. Moreover a user s preferences may be stored and used in displaying categories and digital content items. As such the user may access the desired category or content very quickly.

The present invention may be embodied in the form of program code i.e. instructions stored on a computer readable medium such as a magnetic electrical or optical storage medium including without limitation a floppy diskette CD ROM CD RW DVD ROM DVD RAM magnetic tape flash memory hard disk drive or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. The present invention may also be embodied in the form of program code that is transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics over a network including the Internet or an intranet or via any other form of transmission wherein when the program code is received and loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. When implemented on a general purpose processor the program code combines with the processor to provide a unique apparatus that operates analogously to specific logic circuits.

It is noted that the foregoing examples have been provided merely for the purpose of explanation and are in no way to be construed as limiting of the present invention. While the invention has been described with reference to illustrative embodiments it is understood that the words which have been used herein are words of description and illustration rather than words of limitation. Further although the invention has been described herein with reference to particular structure methods and embodiments the invention is not intended to be limited to the particulars disclosed herein rather the invention extends to all structures methods and uses that are within the scope of the appended claims. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings of this specification may effect numerous modifications thereto and changes may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

