---

title: Gaming device including a game having a wild symbol related award
abstract: A gaming device including a plurality of reels having several symbols with at least one wild symbol. In one embodiment, the gaming device spins the reels for at one spin. If a wild symbol is indicated on a payline associated with the reels and no winning symbol combinations are indicated on the payline, the gaming device holds the reel including the wild symbol, stationary. The gaming device then re-spins the other reels for a designated number of spins, not including the reel having the wild symbol, in the game. The gaming device provides an award associated with any winning symbol combinations on the payline. In another embodiment, the gaming device holds one of the reels stationary when a wild symbol is indicated on a payline associated with the reels the award amounts associated with any indicated winning symbol combinations on the payline are less than a designated award value.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07857695&OS=07857695&RS=07857695
owner: IGT
number: 07857695
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080218
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 463 818 filed Aug. 10 2006 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 633 391 filed Jul. 31 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 090 580 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 241 255 filed Sep. 11 2002 now issued U.S. Pat. No. 7 056 213 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to the following co pending commonly owned U.S. patent applications GAMING DEVICE HAVING A BONUS GAME WITH MULTIPLE PLAYER SELECTABLE AWARD OPPORTUNITIES Ser. No. 10 237 207 GAMING DEVICE HAVING SEQUENTIAL ACTIVATIONS OF A GAME AND REPLAY OF PREVIOUS ACTIVATIONS OF THE GAME Ser. No. 10 956 508 GAMING DEVICE WITH CHANGING WILD SYMBOLS Ser. No. 10 956 303 GAMING DEVICE HAVING FREE SPIN MODE WITH SYMBOL ELIMINATION Ser. No. 10 953 818 GAMING DEVICE HAVING A RE TRIGGERING SYMBOL BONUS SCHEME WITH A BONUS SYMBOL ACCUMULATOR AND PLAYER SELECTION OF ACCUMULATION TOTAL Ser. No. 10 952 656 GAMING DEVICE HAVING TRANSFORMABLE WILD SYMBOLS OR CARDS WITH WILD SIGNAL INDICATORS Ser. No. 10 920 798 GAMING DEVICE HAVING WILD INDICATORS Ser. No. 10 982 096 GAMING DEVICE WITH WILD ACTIVATION SYMBOLS AND WILD TERMINATION SYMBOLS. Ser. No. 10 966 223 and GAMING DEVICE HAVING A RE TRIGGER SYMBOL BONUS SCHEME Ser. No. 11 156 112.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains or may contain material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the photocopy reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure in exactly the form it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

Gaming device manufacturers strive to make gaming devices that provide as much enjoyment and excitement as possible. Providing a game in which a player has an opportunity to win potentially large awards or credits is one way to enhance player enjoyment and excitement.

Currently gaming machines or devices provide games wherein a player has one or more opportunities to obtain a winning symbol combination on mechanical or video reels. The winning symbol combination may be along the same payline or on different paylines known as a scatter pay . By providing gaming devices with more winning symbol combinations players have more opportunities to receive an award.

In known gaming devices however the probability of obtaining the largest award i.e. the jackpot award is typically much lower than the probability of obtaining the other awards in a game. Thus although a player may obtain more awards in a game these awards are generally the relatively small awards and not the relatively large awards such as the jackpot award.

Many jurisdictions have regulations that prohibit changing the probability of occurrence associated with the reel symbols. This makes it more difficult to create bonus or secondary games with high payouts using the bonus game reels and reel symbols.

Additionally many known gaming devices provide wild symbols or wild cards to enhance a player s opportunity of receiving awards in a game. In a reel game wild symbols provide a player with an additional opportunity or opportunities to obtain winning symbol combinations on the reels. Therefore wild symbols wild cards and wild indicators in gaming devices provide additional excitement and entertainment for players.

In a slot machine having reels a wild symbol can enable the matching of one or more symbols on a payline to achieve a symbol combination. For example in a gaming device including a game having three reels is displayed to a player. In the game a winning combination of symbols includes three matching symbols in the game. As illustrated in in one of the activations or spins of the reels a star symbol a wild symbol and a circle symbol are indicated on the reels. The wild symbol matches one of the symbols on the same payline payline as the wild symbol. Therefore the indicated symbol combination on payline is either two star symbols or two circle symbols. In this example neither of these symbol combinations are winning symbol combinations. Therefore the player obtained a wild symbol on the reels but did not obtain a winning symbol combination in the game as indicated by the game display and the total award display . Because the probability of obtaining a winning symbol combination increases when a wild symbol occurs on one or more of the reels in a game a player s excitement and enjoyment also increases in the game. However when the player does not obtain a winning symbol combination after obtaining a wild symbol in the game the player s excitement level decreases. Therefore a game that provides additional award opportunities related to a wild symbol is desirable.

Gaming devices that increase the probability of obtaining the relatively large award and specifically the jackpot award are desirable. Additionally gaming devices that increase the opportunities of obtaining an award or awards in a game are desirable. To increase player enjoyment and excitement it is desirable to provide new games and gaming devices which increase the likelihood or probability that the player will obtain one or more awards in a game and specifically one or more relatively large awards in a game.

The present invention is directed to a gaming device including an award mode of a primary game or bonus game where the probability of obtaining an award and specifically a relatively large award increases when the player enters the award mode or bonus game.

In one embodiment the gaming device includes a plurality of reels each having a plurality of symbols. These symbols include a plurality of award symbols at least one non award symbol or null symbol or blank at least one trigger symbol or symbol combination and at least one wild symbol. One or more paylines are associated with the reels to indicate symbols or symbol combinations on the reels which are evaluated for winning symbol combinations. The symbols may be any suitable symbols such as letters numbers characters or any other suitable images. The award mode also includes a triggering event which in one embodiment includes a trigger symbol occurring on the reels. In one embodiment the triggering event occurs when the trigger symbol is indicated on a designated reel on one of the paylines associated with the reels. In another embodiment the triggering event occurs when the trigger symbol occurs on any of the paylines.

In a primary game the gaming device initiates the award mode when the triggering event occurs in the game. In the award mode the gaming device holds the reel including the trigger symbol stationary while activating or spinning the other reels until those reels indicate a wild symbol on the payline. The gaming device then holds the reels including the wild symbols stationary while reactivating or re spinning the reel including the trigger symbol. Thus the award mode effectively reduces the game to a single reel game where only one of the award symbols on the reel indicates a winning symbol combination in the award mode.

In the award mode the gaming device re activates or re spins the reel including the trigger symbol until one of the award symbols is indicated on the payline on that reel. For instance if a non award or null symbol or the trigger symbol is indicated on the payline in the award mode the gaming device re spins the reel until one of the award symbols or the wild symbol is indicated on the payline. The null symbols and the trigger symbol do not provide an award to the player in the award mode but instead cause the gaming device to re spin the reels. Therefore the player is guaranteed to receive one of the award symbols or the wild symbol in the award mode before the award mode ends. Reducing the number of symbols that may be indicated on the payline to end the game increases the probability that any one of the award symbols will be indicated on the payline. The gaming device then provides the award associated with the indicated award symbol or the indicated award symbol combination to the player. The award is added to the player s total award in a total award display and the bonus mode ends. In another embodiment the player continues to re activate the reels in the award mode if the player has spins remaining in the award mode.

The gaming device of the present invention effectively reduces the game to a single reel game or event which increases the probability or chance that a player will obtain an award in the award mode and specifically that the player will obtain a relatively large award such as jackpot award in the award mode. For example in a three reel slot game if each of the reels in the game includes twenty symbols including the trigger symbol wild symbol and non award or null symbols the probability or chance of obtaining an award symbol combination in that game is 1 20 1 20 1 20 or 1 in 8000.

In the award mode the game is reduced to a single reel game as described above. Therefore the probability of obtaining an award symbol or symbol combination in the award mode significantly increases. The probability is determined by multiplying the probability of the trigger symbol being indicated in the primary game i.e. 1 in 20 by the probability of indicating one of the award symbols occurring in the award mode i.e. 1 in 9 . Therefore the probability of one of the award symbols or symbol combinations being indicated in the game through the award mode is 1 20 1 9 which equals a probability of 1 180 . Thus it is significantly more likely that the player will obtain one of the award symbols and therefore a winning award symbol combination in game through the award mode. This increases the player s excitement and enjoyment of the game because the player has a greater opportunity or probability of obtaining the relatively large award or jackpot award in the award mode.

In one embodiment a probability of being indicated on the payline is associated with each of the symbols on the reels. In one aspect of this embodiment the probability associated with the trigger symbol is less than the probability associated with at least one of the award symbols null symbols and the wild symbol on the reels. In another aspect of this embodiment the probability associated with the trigger symbol is less than a plurality of the probabilities associated with the award symbols null symbols and the wild symbol. In a further aspect of this embodiment the probability associated with the trigger symbol is less than all of the probabilities associated with the award symbols null symbols and the wild symbol in the game.

Similarly in another embodiment the award symbols include one relatively large award and several relatively small awards. In this embodiment a probability of being indicated on the payline is associated with the award symbols such that the probability associated with the award symbol including the relatively large award is less than at least one of the probabilities associated with the award symbols including the relatively small awards being indicated on the payline. In another embodiment the probability associated with the award symbol including the relatively large award is less than a plurality of the probabilities associated with the award symbols including the relatively small awards. In a further embodiment the probability associated with the award symbol including the relatively large award is less than all of the probabilities associated with the award symbols including the relatively small awards.

In a further embodiment the award mode of the present invention includes an award associated with a winning symbol combination including all wild symbols. In this embodiment if the award mode is initiated and a wild symbol is indicated on the payline associated with the reels in combination with the other wild symbols indicated on the payline the gaming device provides the maximum or largest award in the game such as the jackpot award. In another embodiment the gaming device provides a predetermined award associated with a winning symbol combination including wild symbols in the game.

In an alternative embodiment the gaming device includes a game which displays a plurality of reels to a player. The reels include a plurality of symbols having at least one trigger symbol such as a wild symbol. The gaming device activates or spins the reels for at least one activation or spin in a game and indicates a combination of symbols on the reels. If the symbol combination indicated on the reels includes a wild symbol but is not a winning symbol combination in the game the gaming device holds the reel including the wild symbol stationary. The gaming device then provides the player with a designated number of activations or spins to re spin at least one of the reels other than the held reel in the game. The designated number of activations or spins may be predetermined randomly determined determined based on a wager made by a player or determined according to any suitable determination method in a game. The wild symbol and the symbol combinations may be indicated on one payline associated with the reels a plurality of paylines associated with the reels or on all of the paylines associated with the reels.

In one embodiment the gaming device re activates or re spins the reel or reels other than the reel including the wild symbol until a winning symbol combination is indicated on the reels or until there are no spins remaining in the game. In another embodiment the gaming device re activates or re spins the reel or reels other than the reel including the wild symbol until a winning symbol combination is indicated on the reels. In a further embodiment the gaming device re activates or re spins the reel or reels other than the reel including the wild symbol until there are no spins remaining in the game. In this embodiment the gaming device provides the awards to the player associated with any winning symbol combinations that occur on the reels during the designated number of activations or spins of the reels.

In another alternative embodiment if the symbol combination indicated on the reels includes a wild symbol but does not indicate a winning symbol combination having an award amount equal to or greater than a designated award amount in the game the gaming device holds the reel including the wild symbol stationary. The gaming device then provides the player with a designated number of activations or spins to re spin at least one of the reels other than the held reel in the game as described above. The gaming device then provides the player with an award or awards associated with any winning symbol combinations indicated on the reels in the game. The designated award amount may be an award value or values or any other suitable award level in the game. In addition the designated award amount may be predetermined randomly determined determined based on a wager made by the player in the game or determined according to any suitable determination method.

In a further alternative embodiment the present invention provides a gaming device including a free spins game which displays a plurality of reels to a player. The reels include a plurality of symbols where the symbols include at least one trigger symbol such as a wild symbol. The gaming device also provides a designated number of activations or spins of the reels in the game. The gaming device activates or spins the reels to indicate the symbols on the reels. If a wild symbol is indicated on the reels such as on a payline associated with the reels and no winning symbol combinations are indicated on the same payline as the wild symbol the gaming device freezes or holds the reel including the wild symbol stationary. The gaming device then re activates or re spins the other reels not including the reel including the wild symbol to indicate symbols in the game. The gaming device continues to activate the other reels in the game for the remaining number of spins in the game until a winning symbol combination if any is indicated on the payline associated with the reels. The gaming device then provides an award associated with the winning symbol combination to the player. The game ends when there are no spins remaining in the game the gaming device provides the player with the total award indicated in a total award display.

In another embodiment of the present invention the gaming device freezes or holds the reel including the wild symbol stationary when the wild symbol is indicated on a payline associated with the reels and the award amounts associated with any winning symbol combinations indicated on the payline are less than a designated award amount. Thus the gaming device ensures that if the player does obtain a winning symbol combination in the game the award associated with that winning symbol combination will be equal to or greater than a designated minimum award or award amount in the game. The designated award amount may be any suitable level desired by game implementor.

In this embodiment the gaming device activates or spins the reels for a designated number of spins in the game. If a wild symbol is indicated on a payline associated with the reels and the award value or amount associated with any indicated winning symbol combinations on the payline are less than the designated award value the gaming device freezes or holds the reel including the wild symbol and enables the player to have an opportunity to obtain an award associated with a winning symbol combination in the game that is equal to or greater than the designated award value or amount. The gaming device continues to activate the reels other than the reel including the wild symbol to indicate symbols and possibly winning symbol combinations in the game. The gaming device then provides any awards associated with winning symbol combinations including the wild symbol on the payline that are equal to or greater than the designated award amount. The gaming device then transfers those awards to the total award display. When there are no spins remaining in the game the game ends and the gaming device provides the total award to the player.

In a further alternative embodiment the gaming device provides an award or awards to a player for any winning symbol combinations including the wild symbol which are located on any of the paylines associated with the reels i.e. a scatter pay combination . In one embodiment the winning symbol combination includes the wild symbol and any symbols located on the reels not including the wild symbol. In another embodiment the winning symbol combination includes the wild symbol and any symbols included on any of the reels including the reel having the wild symbol. Thus the gaming device provides the player with more opportunities to obtain a winning combination of symbols including the wild symbol in the game and thereby increases the player s chance of obtaining an award in the game.

In another alternative embodiment one or more symbol indicators are associated with the wild symbol. In this embodiment when the wild symbol is indicated on the reels the reel including the wild symbol is held stationary while the other reels not including the wild symbol are activated. When the reels not including the wild symbol stop the symbol indicator or indicators associated with the wild symbol indicate or point to one or more symbols on the reels. The symbol indicator or indicators may point to symbols on different reels or the same reel as the reel including the wild symbol. In one embodiment the symbol indicator or indicators associated with the wild symbol point to a fixed location or locations on the reels. It should be appreciated that the symbol indicators may indicate or point to a randomly selected location on the reels or a designated section on the reels. The symbols indicated by the symbol indicators are combined with the wild symbol to form a symbol combination in an activation. The gaming device provides the player with any awards associated with the formed symbol combination.

In a further alternative embodiment the symbols on the reels include at least one bonus symbol. If the bonus symbol is indicated on one or more designated paylines associated with the reels the gaming device provides a bonus award or an additional award to the player in the game. The bonus award may include at least one free spin of the reels at least one free game and or at least one multiplier. It should be appreciated that the bonus award or additional award may be any suitable award as desired by the game implementor. The bonus symbol further enhances the probability that a player will obtain one of the winning symbol combinations in the game.

In another alternative embodiment a probability of being indicated on a payline associated with the reels is associated with each of the symbols on the reels. In one aspect of this embodiment the probability associated with the wild symbol is less than the probability associated with at least one of the other symbols on the reels. In another aspect of this embodiment the probability associated with the wild symbol is less than the probability associated with a plurality of the other symbols on the reels. In a further aspect of this embodiment the probability associated with the wild symbol is less than all of the probabilities associated with the other symbols on the reels.

In a further alternative embodiment the present invention is employed in a card game. In this embodiment the gaming device displays a plurality of cards to a player in a game. The cards include a plurality of symbols including at least one trigger symbol such as a wild symbol. The symbols may be numbers colors letters playing card suits characters or any suitable image. In a game the gaming device displays the cards in one or more rounds to the player. If a wild symbol appears on one of the cards and there is not a winning combination of cards the gaming device holds the card including the wild symbol. The gaming device then replaces at least one of the cards not including the wild symbol for a designated number of rounds until a winning combination of cards are indicated or until there are no rounds remaining in the game. In another embodiment the gaming device continues to replace at least one of the cards not including the wild symbol until a winning combination of cards are indicated. The gaming device then provides the player with the award associated with the winning combination of cards. In a further embodiment the gaming device holds the card including the wild symbol when no winning combination of cards are indicated that include an award amount equal to or greater than a designated award amount in the game.

It should be appreciated that the present invention may be employed in a primary game a bonus game a sub game or any suitable game.

It should also be appreciated that although the present application primarily discusses a trigger symbol a combination of symbols i.e. a trigger symbol combination could be employed to trigger the award mode. It should also be appreciated that the trigger symbol could function as a wild symbol and one of the other reels could re activated.

It is therefore an advantage of the present invention to provide a gaming device that increases the probability of obtaining awards in a game.

Another advantage of the present invention is to provide a gaming device that increases the probability of obtaining a relatively large award in a game.

It is a further advantage of the present invention to provide a gaming device that increases the probability of obtaining the jackpot award in a game.

Other objects features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following detailed disclosure taken in conjunction with the accompanying sheets of drawings wherein like numerals refer to like parts elements components steps and processes.

Referring now to the drawings two embodiments of the gaming device of the present invention are illustrated in as gaming device and gaming device respectively. Gaming device and or gaming device are generally referred to herein as gaming device . Gaming device is preferably a slot machine having the controls displays and features of a conventional slot machine. It is constructed so that a player can operate it while standing or sitting and gaming device is preferably mounted on a console. However it should be appreciated that gaming device can be constructed as a pub style table top game not shown which a player can operate preferably while sitting. Furthermore gaming device can be constructed with varying cabinet and display designs as illustrated by the designs shown in . Gaming device can also be implemented as a program code stored in a detachable cartridge for operating a hand held video game device. Also gaming device can be implemented as a program code stored on a disk or other memory device which a player can use in a desktop or laptop personal computer or other computerized platform.

Gaming device can incorporate any primary game such as slot black jack poker or keno any of the bonus triggering events and any of the bonus round games. The symbols and indicia used on and in gaming device may be in mechanical electrical electronic or video form.

As illustrated in gaming device includes a coin slot and bill acceptor where the player inserts money coins or tokens. The player can place coins in the coin slot or paper money or ticket vouchers in the bill acceptor . Other devices could be used for accepting payment such as readers or validators for credit cards or debit cards. When a player inserts money in gaming device a number of credits corresponding to the amount deposited is shown in a credit display . After depositing the appropriate amount of money a player can begin the game by pulling arm or pushing play button . Play button can be any play activator used by the player which starts any game or sequence of events in the gaming device.

As shown in gaming device also includes a bet display and a bet one button . The player places a bet by pushing the bet one button . The player can increase the bet by one credit each time the player pushes the bet one button . When the player pushes the bet one button the number of credits shown in the credit display decreases by one and the number of credits shown in the bet display increases by one.

A player may cash out and thereby receive a number of coins corresponding to the number of remaining credits by pushing a cash out button . When the player cashes out the player receives the coins in a coin payout tray . The gaming device may employ other payout mechanisms such as credit slips redeemable by a cashier or electronically recordable cards which keep track of the player s credits.

Gaming device also includes one or more display devices. The embodiment shown in includes a central display device and the alternative embodiment shown in includes a central display device as well as an upper display device . Gaming device displays a plurality of reels such as three to five reels in mechanical or video form at one or more of the display devices. A display device can be any viewing surface such as glass a video monitor or screen a liquid crystal display or any other display mechanism. If the reels are in video form the display device for the video reels is preferably a video monitor.

Each reel displays a plurality of indicia such as bells hearts fruits numbers letters bars or other images which preferably correspond to a theme associated with the gaming device . Furthermore gaming device preferably includes speakers for making sounds or playing music.

As illustrated in the general electronic configuration of gaming device preferably includes a processor a memory device for storing program code or other data a central display device an upper display device a sound card a plurality of speakers and one or more input devices . The processor is preferably a microprocessor or microcontroller based platform which is capable of displaying images symbols and other indicia such as images of people characters places things and faces of cards. The memory device can include random access memory RAM for storing event data or other data generated or used during a particular game. The memory device can also include read only memory ROM for storing program code which controls the gaming device so that it plays a particular game in accordance with applicable game rules and pay tables.

As illustrated in the player preferably uses the input devices such as pull arm play button the bet one button and the cash out button to input signals into gaming device . In certain instances it is preferable to use a touch screen and an associated touch screen controller instead of a conventional video monitor display device. Touch screen and touch screen controller are connected to a video controller and processor . A player can make decisions and input signals into the gaming device by touching touch screen at the appropriate places. As further illustrated in the processor can be connected to coin slot or bill acceptor . The processor can be programmed to require a player to deposit a certain amount of money in order to start the game.

It should be appreciated that although a processor and memory device are preferable implementations of the present invention the present invention can also be implemented using one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC s or other hard wired devices or using mechanical devices collectively or alternatively referred to herein as a processor . Furthermore although the processor and memory device preferably reside on each gaming device unit it is possible to provide some or all of their functions at a central location such as a network server for communication to a playing station such as over a local area network LAN wide area network WAN Internet connection microwave link and the like. The processor and memory device is generally referred to herein as the computer or controller. 

With reference to B and to operate the gaming device in one embodiment the player must insert the appropriate amount of money or tokens at coin slot or bill acceptor and then pull the arm or push the play button . The reels will then begin to spin. Eventually the reels will come to a stop. As long as the player has credits remaining the player can spin the reels again. Depending upon where the reels stop the player may or may not win additional credits.

In addition to winning credits in this manner gaming device also gives players the opportunity to win credits in a bonus round. This type of gaming device will include a program which will automatically initiates a bonus round when the player has achieved a qualifying condition in the game. This qualifying condition can be a particular arrangement of indicia on a display device. The gaming device preferably uses a video based central display device to enable the player to play the bonus round. Preferably the qualifying condition is a predetermined combination of indicia appearing on one or more of a plurality of the reels . As illustrated in the five reel slot game shown in the qualifying condition could be the number seven appearing on three adjacent reels along a payline . It should be appreciated that the present invention can include one or more paylines such as payline wherein the paylines can be horizontal diagonal or any combination thereof.

Referring to A B A and B one embodiment of the reels of the present invention is illustrated where three reels are employed in a game. It should be appreciated that any suitable number of reels may be employed in the primary game. In this embodiment each of the reels and includes symbols which are represented by letters A B C D E F G and H non award or null symbols or blanks at least one trigger symbol and at least one wild symbol . It should be appreciated that any suitable number and types of symbols may be employed in a game according to the present invention. Each symbol is positioned at a reel stop position or reel stop on each of the reels. Therefore one of the symbols such as one of the award symbols one of the null symbols the trigger symbol or the wild symbol will be indicated on a payline in the game.

Referring to in one embodiment the gaming device displays a plurality of reels and specifically three reels and . The reels include a plurality of symbols such as the letters A B C D E F G and H. The reels also include at least one trigger symbol such as a diamond symbol . It should be appreciated that one or more of the reels may include at least on trigger symbol. Additionally each of the reels includes at least one wild symbol and at least one null symbol or blank . A probability of being indicated is associated with each of the symbols on the reels. In the primary game the probability of each of the symbols being indicated on one of the reels is one in twenty 1 20 or 5.0 as shown in the probability table illustrated in . If a triggering event occurs in the primary game an award mode is initiated. In the award mode the primary game is effectively reduced to a one reel game. In addition the null symbols or blanks and the trigger symbol each re spin or re activate the reels. Thus the effective number of symbols on the reels is reduced from twenty symbols to nine symbols which further increases the probability that one of the symbols will be indicated on the reels. Several paylines such as paylines and are associated with the reels. It should be appreciated that one or more paylines may be associated with the reels. A spins remaining display indicates the number of spins remaining in the game. A total award display indicates the total value of the awards accumulated by the player in the game.

The gaming device provides the player with a number of spins in the game. The number of spins may be randomly determined predetermined or determined in any suitable manner. The player uses the spins to activate or spin the reels and . The gaming device provides an award associated with one or more winning symbol combinations indicated on one of the paylines or associated with the reels. The player continues to spin the reels until the player has no spins remaining as indicated by the spins remaining display .

The trigger symbol or diamond symbol increases the probability that the player will obtain one of the awards in the game and specifically increases the probability that the player will obtain the largest award such as the jackpot award in the game. The game preferably includes only one trigger symbol designated as a diamond symbol on one of the reels in the game. In one embodiment the middle reel includes the trigger symbol or diamond symbol . If the diamond symbol is indicated on one of the paylines or the gaming device initiates an award mode. In the award mode the gaming device freezes or holds the reel including the trigger symbol stationary while the gaming device activates or spins the remaining reels or outside reels and which are adjacent to the middle reel . The gaming device activates or spins these reels until a wild symbol is indicated on the same payline as the trigger symbol or diamond symbol .

Once the wild symbols are indicated on reels and and on the same payline as the trigger symbol the gaming device holds or keeps these reels stationary. The symbols on payline are wild symbol on reel trigger symbol or diamond symbol on reel and wild symbol on reel . The gaming device now re spins or re activates reel until an award symbol such as one of the letters is indicated on payline . Any award symbol indicated on that payline will provide a symbol combination having three identical symbols matching the award symbol indicated on that payline. This occurs because two of the symbols on that payline are the wild symbols and as illustrated in . Because only the middle reel is re activated or re spun during the game to determine the award the game is reduced to a one reel or single reel game. The player now only needs to obtain one award symbol to win an award in the award mode. More specifically the player only has to spin one reel to obtain the largest award such as the jackpot award in the game. Thus because the award mode reduced the game to a one reel or single reel game the probability of obtaining any of the awards and specifically the largest award in the game increases significantly.

In the award mode when the middle reel is re activated and the trigger symbol or diamond symbol is indicated on payline the gaming device re spins or re activates reel . Thus in one embodiment the trigger symbol or diamond symbol does not provide an award to the player in the game. In another embodiment an award is associated with the trigger symbol and is provided to the player if the trigger symbol is indicated on the reel after the reel is re activated in the award mode.

Similarly if a non award or null symbol i.e. blank is indicated on payline on reel the gaming device re spins or re activates reel . Thus a null symbol does not provide an award to the player rather the reels are re spun to give the player another opportunity to obtain one of the awards in the game. Once an award symbol is indicated on the designated payline on reel the gaming device provides an award associated with the award combination including those symbols. If the award symbol happens to be the jackpot symbol the player obtains three of the jackpot symbols and therefore the jackpot award in the game. The award received by the player in the game is transferred to the total award display and provided to the player when the game ends. In one embodiment the game ends when the player obtains an award in the game. In another embodiment the game ends when the player runs out of spins as indicated by the spins remaining display .

In a further embodiment the gaming device includes a modifier such as a multiplier which changes such as by increasing when the null symbol occurs on the reel. The modifier such as the multiplier is employed in one embodiment to increase the award determined by the generated symbol on the reel.

By effectively reducing the game to a single reel or one reel game the present invention significantly increases the probability of obtaining an award in the game without changing the random probability of occurrence. In particular the present invention increases the probability or the likelihood that the player will obtain the largest award such as the jackpot award in the game. For example in a typical reel type game a player must obtain one of a plurality of designated symbol combinations on one or more of the paylines associated with a set of reels to obtain an award in the game. The gaming device or player spins the reels and the reels randomly indicate symbols on one or more of the paylines associated with the reels. If a winning symbol combination is indicated on one of the designated winning paylines in the game the gaming device provides an award associated with that winning symbol combination. The probability of obtaining a particular symbol combination however is based on the number of reels in a game and the number of symbols included on those reels. Thus the more reels and symbols in a game the less likely or less probable it is that the player will obtain one of the winning symbol combinations in that game.

For example a particular game of the gaming device may include three reels such as reels and in . In this example each of the reels includes twenty reel positions which include nine award symbols as symbols A B C D E F G and H one wild symbol one trigger symbol and ten null symbols. In this example the symbols must occur or be indicated on payline to provide a winning symbol combination in the game. Thus at the beginning of the game each symbol has a 5 1 20 chance or probability of being indicated on payline on each of the reels as illustrated in . As a result the overall probability that a particular symbol combination will occur on that payline is 1 20 1 20 1 20 which equals 1 8000 or 0.013 . Therefore in this example because each symbol has a 5 1 20 chance or probability of being indicated on a single payline on the reels the overall probability of a particular symbol combination occurring on that payline in the primary game without the award mode is 1 8000 or 0.013 .

Referring to an example of a payout or award table is illustrated. In this example a winning symbol combination in the primary game includes three identical symbols. For instance the jackpot award or largest award indicated on the table is the award of ten thousand associated with the symbol combination including three A symbols i.e. A A A . The award associated with the other winning symbol combinations are also shown in the table. It should be appreciated that any suitable combination of symbols in a game may be designated as a winning symbol combination.

Referring to a probability table for a primary game or base game indicates the probability of each of the symbols being indicated on a payline for each reel in the three reel slot game shown in . The table also indicates the probability of being indicated on a payline associated with each of the winning symbol combinations shown in for each of the symbols on the reels and the probability of three null symbols or blanks being indicated on the payline. As illustrated in the table the probability of each of the award symbols i.e. A B C D E F G and H being indicated on any one of the reels is 1 20 . The probability of a winning symbol combination including one of the award symbols the trigger symbol or the wild symbol being indicated on the designated payline is 1 8000 i.e. 1 20 1 20 1 20 . The probability of three null symbols or blanks being indicated on the payline is 10 20 10 20 10 20 or 1 8 . Therefore a player has a one in eight thousand chance in the primary game to obtain one of the winning symbol combinations and specifically of obtaining the jackpot award in the game.

In the award mode of the present invention the number of reels is effectively reduced to one reel or one active reel such as reel . As a result the probability of obtaining a particular symbol or a particular symbol combination increases significantly. Referring to a probability table illustrates the probabilities of each of the symbols being indicated on the reel in the award mode. Additionally the table illustrates the probability of a winning symbol combination which in the award mode is one award symbol being indicated on the payline in the award mode. Because the trigger symbol and the null symbols cause the reel to re spin in the award mode the number of effective award symbols in the award mode is reduced to nine. Therefore the probability of each of the award symbols or the wild symbol being indicated on the payline in the game through the award mode is 1 180 which is the probability of the trigger symbol being indicated on the payline in the primary game 1 20 multiplied by the probability of any one of the award symbols or the wild symbol being indicated on the payline in the award mode which is 1 9 . The probability of one of the award symbols or the wild symbol being indicated in the game through the award mode is therefore 1 20 1 9 or 1 180 as shown in . Accordingly the overall probability of obtaining a specific symbol combination is 0.013 1 8000 0.56 1 180 which equal 0.573 .

Referring to in one example of the award mode of the present invention if a trigger symbol or diamond symbol is indicated on payline in a primary game an award mode is initiated and the outside reels and are re activated or re spun until wild symbols are indicated on payline . Then the reels and are held stationary while the middle reel is re activated or re spun until an award symbol is indicated on payline . The probability or likelihood of obtaining a particular symbol combination on the reels has now increased because the player only has to obtain one award symbol on reel in order to obtain an award in the game.

In this example the middle reel includes twenty reel positions including eight award symbols one wild symbol a trigger symbol or diamond symbol and ten null symbols as shown in . Therefore the player initially has a one in twenty chance of obtaining the trigger symbol or diamond symbol on reel in the primary game as described above. In the award mode if the player obtains the trigger symbol or one of the null symbols on payline after the reel is re activated the gaming device re spins or re activates reel again until an award symbol is indicated on payline . Because the trigger symbol and the null symbols re spin or re activate the reels in the award mode the actual number of symbols that provide an award and end the bonus mode are nine i.e. the eight award symbols and the wild symbol . Therefore the player has a one in nine chance of obtaining an award symbol in the award mode and thereby a 11.1 chance of obtaining a winning symbol combination on payline . As a result the overall probability of obtaining a winning symbol combination on the reels in the award mode is determined by taking the probability of obtaining the trigger symbol or diamond symbol on reel in the initial or primary game which is 1 in 20 1 20 multiplied by the probability or the likelihood of one of the award symbols being indicated on payline which is 1 in 9 1 9 . The overall probability therefore equals 1 180 or 0.56 for obtaining any one of the winning symbol combinations on the reels in the game through the award mode as shown in . Thus the probability of obtaining a winning symbol combination on the reels in the primary game is 1 in 8000 or 0.013 and this probability increases to 1 in 180 or 0.56 in the award mode. This significantly increases a player s opportunities or chances of obtaining one of the awards in the game and specifically a relatively large award such as the jackpot award. This increases a player s excitement and enjoyment of the game.

Referring to an example of one embodiment of the present invention is illustrated where the player obtains a trigger symbol or diamond symbol in the primary game or primary mode. This example includes three reels and as shown in where each reel includes a plurality of award symbols A B C D E F G and H one trigger symbol designated as diamond symbol one wild symbol and ten null symbols . The player begins the game with five spins as indicated by the spins remaining display as shown in . Additionally the player begins the game with an award of zero as indicated by the total award display . The player uses their first spin as shown in to activate or spin the reels. A trigger symbol or diamond symbol is indicated on payline on reel . The trigger symbol or diamond symbol initiates the bonus mode of the present invention.

Referring to the gaming device freezes or holds reel stationary while spinning or re spinning the outside reels and until wild symbols and respectively are indicated on payline on those reels. As indicated by the spins remaining display the number of spins does not decrease when these reels are activated or re activated to indicate the wild symbols. Additionally the total award display indicates that the player does not obtain an award for obtaining the trigger symbol i.e. diamond symbol or the wild symbols or . In another embodiment the gaming device provides an award associated with the trigger symbol and or the wild symbols.

Referring to the outside reels and are stationary or cannot be re activated therefore the gaming device or player can only re activate or re spin reel . In the gaming device re activates reel and a null symbol is indicated on payline . The symbol combination of a wild symbol a null symbol and wild symbol on reels and respectively is not a winning symbol combination in the game. Therefore the player does not receive an award for this symbol combination. However the null symbol does not end the game but instead causes the gaming device to automatically re spin or re activate reel . Thus the null symbol provides the player with another opportunity to obtain an award symbol in the game. The number of spins remaining in the award mode does not decrease as indicated by the spins remaining display and the total award still remains at zero as indicated by the total award display .

Alternatively as indicated above the game upon the occurrence of the null symbol can change such as increment a modifier such as a multiplier which is employed to modify and preferably increase the award to the player.

Referring to the gaming device or player re activates reel in the game. The trigger symbol or diamond symbol is indicated on payline on reel . The resultant symbol combination is the wild symbol the trigger symbol and the wild symbol on reels and respectively which is not a winning symbol combination. Similar to the null symbol shown in the trigger symbol or diamond symbol causes the gaming device to re activate or re spin reel . Therefore the player has another opportunity to obtain an award symbol in the game. The number of spins remaining in the bonus mode and the total award did not change in the game as indicated by the spins remaining display and the total award display .

Referring to the gaming device or player re spins and re activates reel in the award mode. After this spin an award symbol designated by the letter A is indicated on payline on reel . As a result a winning symbol combination including wild symbol on reel award symbol on reel and wild symbol on reel is indicated on payline . This symbol combination provides a combination of three A symbols because the wild symbols act or equal the award symbol . In this example a combination including three A symbols provides the jackpot or largest award of ten thousand to the player as indicated by the total award display . Thus the trigger symbol or diamond symbol increases the probability or likelihood that the player will obtain an award and particularly the jackpot award in the game. The player has four spins remaining as indicated by the spins remaining display . In one embodiment the player uses the remaining spins to spin the reels four more times in the award mode. In another embodiment the game ends when the player obtains an award in the game.

Referring to another embodiment of the present invention is illustrated where the symbols on the middle or central reel include awards such as the values of twenty one hundred and five. In the award mode of this embodiment the player re spins or re activates reel until one of the award values are indicated on payline . Instead of obtaining a winning symbol combination in the game the player obtains three times the value of the indicated award or value on payline . For example in the award of one hundred is indicated on payline in the award mode. Therefore the combination of the award of one hundred with the wild symbols and provide an award of three hundred because the wild symbols match the award value indicated on payline on reel . Thus the player obtains an award of three hundred as indicated by the total award display in the award mode. It should be appreciated that any symbols values or any combination of symbols or values may be employed on the reels in the award mode of the game of the present invention.

Referring to a further embodiment of the present invention is illustrated where the middle or center reel includes a wild symbol . In this embodiment the player re spins reel after obtaining the trigger symbol or diamond symbol as described above. If the player obtains the wild symbol on payline on reel the player obtains a symbol combination including three wild symbols and . Thus the player obtains the largest award or the highest or most desirable symbol combination associated with the game such as the jackpot symbol combination because the player obtained three wild symbols on payline . Thus the wild symbol increases the probability that the player will obtain the largest award such as the jackpot award in the game. In another embodiment an award or award value is associated with the symbol combination including the wild symbol as shown in .

In one alternative embodiment of the present invention the number of spins of the reel can be limited such as to a predetermined number a randomly determined number or a number based on another functional game element such as the player s wager.

In an alternative embodiment the gaming device includes a game which displays a plurality of reels to a player. The reels include a plurality of symbols having at least one trigger symbol such as a wild symbol. The trigger symbol enables a player to obtain additional opportunities to obtain awards in a game after one or more losing symbol combinations including at least one wild symbol are indicated on the reels.

In one alternative embodiment the gaming device activates or spins the reels for at least one activation or spin in a game and indicates one or more symbols such as a combination of symbols on the reels. If the symbol combination indicated on the reels includes a wild symbol but is not a winning symbol combination in the game the gaming device holds the reel including the wild symbol stationary. The gaming device then provides the player with a designated number of activations or spins to re spin at least one of the reels other than the held reel in the game. The designated number of activations or spins may be predetermined randomly determined determined based on a wager made by a player or determined according to any suitable determination method in a game. In another embodiment the wild symbol and the symbol combinations are indicated on one payline associated with the reels a plurality of paylines associated with the reels or on all of the paylines associated with the reels.

Referring to in an example of the above embodiment the gaming device displays a plurality of reels to a player. The reels include a plurality of symbols including at least one trigger symbol which is a wild symbol . The symbols in this example are shapes such as circles rectangles hearts diamonds stars and bar symbols. It should be appreciated that the symbols may be shapes numbers letters characters or any suitable images. Three paylines and are associated with the reels. In this example the gaming device provides an award to the player for any winning symbol combinations including three matching symbols indicated on payline . A spins remaining display indicates the number of free spins provided to the player in a game if any. A total award display indicates the total award accumulated by the player in the game. At the start of the game the number of free spins is zero and the total award is zero.

Referring to the gaming device activates or spins the reels in the game and a symbol on each reel is indicated on the payline . Specifically a wild symbol is indicated on the payline. However a winning symbol combination is not indicated on the payline because three matching symbols are not indicated on the payline. Thus the player obtained a wild symbol but did not obtain a winning symbol combination in the game. The gaming device therefore holds reel which includes the wild symbol stationary and provides two free spins of the reels as indicated by the spins remaining display . As a result the gaming device provides the player with additional opportunities to win awards associated with the wild symbol. This increases the player s excitement and enjoyment in the game. The total award in the game is still zero as indicated by the total award display .

Referring to the gaming device activates or spins the reels using one of the free spins provided to the player in the game. The reels stop spinning and three symbols are indicated on payline . The indicated symbols are a diamond symbol the wild symbol and another diamond symbol . The wild symbol matches or substitutes for one of the symbols indicated on the payline. Because only diamond symbols are indicated on the payline the wild symbol matches or substitutes as a diamond symbol on the payline. Thus a symbol combination including three matching symbols specifically three diamond symbols is indicated on payline . This is a winning symbol combination in the game. Therefore the gaming device provides an award associated with the winning symbol combination i.e. three diamond symbols which in this example is an award of fifty. The award of fifty is added to the player s total award and the player now has a total award of fifty as indicated by the total award display . The game ends and the total award indicated by the total award display is provided to the player.

In another alternative embodiment the gaming device holds a reel including a wild symbol stationary when the wild symbol occurs on or is indicated on a designated payline in the game and the award amount associated with any winning symbol combinations indicated on the payline are not greater than a designated award amount in the game. The gaming device therefore ensures that if the player does obtain an award in the game the award is above a designated award or award amount i.e. a minimum award amount . It should be appreciated that the designated award amount may be any suitable award amount such as a particular symbol combination or combinations or a particular award value in the game.

Referring to an example of this embodiment is illustrated where the gaming device displays a plurality of reels including symbols . The symbols include at least one wild symbol as described above. In this example the gaming device designates a particular award amount to be a minimum award amount in the game. Therefore the gaming device will provide an award to the player only if the award or award amount associated with a winning symbol combination indicated by the reels is equal to or greater than the designated award amount for the game. In an award summary table displays a plurality winning symbol combinations such as the winning symbol combination including three bar symbols associated with the symbols in the game. Additionally a plurality of awards such as the award of two hundred fifty are associated with the winning symbol combinations. In this example the gaming device designated winning symbol combination and the associated award of twenty five as the minimum award amount in the game. Thus the player must obtain a winning symbol combination that produces an award greater than twenty five which is the designated award amount in the game.

Referring to the gaming device spins the reels and three symbols are indicated on payline . The symbols include a circle symbol a wild symbol and a heart symbol. Because this symbol combination is not a winning symbol combination as indicated by the award summary table the gaming device holds the reel including the wild symbol stationary and provides a designated number of free spins to the player to obtain an award related to or based on the wild symbol . The gaming device provides two free spins to the player as indicated by the spins remaining display . The gaming device will use the free spins to spin reels and in the game. Because the player did not obtain an award in this spin the total award is still zero as indicated by the total award display .

Referring to the gaming device activates or spins the reels using the first free spin. The reels stop spinning and three symbols are indicated on payline . The symbols are a rectangle symbol the wild symbol and another rectangle symbol. The wild symbol substitutes for one of the rectangle symbols on payline and therefore a symbol combination including three matching rectangle symbols are indicated on payline . This symbol combination however does not generate an award or award amount greater than the designated award amount of twenty five. Thus the player does not obtain a winning symbol combination in this spin. There is only one free spin remaining in the game as indicated by the spins remaining display . Also the total award is still zero as indicated by the total award display .

Referring to the gaming device activates or spins the reels using the last free spin in the game. After this spin the reels indicate a star symbol the wild symbol and star symbol . The wild symbol substitutes as one of the symbols on the payline i.e. a star symbol and therefore a winning symbol combination including three star symbols is indicated on payline . Also this winning symbol combination provides an award which is greater than the designated award amount associated with the winning symbol combination as shown in because the award of one hundred associated with three star symbols is greater than the award of twenty five associated with the three rectangle symbols. Thus the gaming device adds the award of one hundred to the player s total award in the game as indicated by the total award display .

In one embodiment as illustrated in this example the game ends when the player obtains an award in the game regardless of whether the player obtains the award in the first spin or the last spin in the game. In another embodiment the gaming device activates or spins the reel or reels other than the reel including the wild symbol until a winning symbol combination is indicated on the reels or until there are no spins remaining in the game. In another embodiment the gaming device activates or spins the reel or reels other than the reel including the wild symbol until a winning symbol combination is indicated on the reels. In a further embodiment the gaming device activates or spins the reel or reels other than the reel including the wild symbol until there are no spins remaining in the game. In this embodiment the gaming device provides awards to the player associated with any winning symbol combinations that occur on the reels during the designated number of activations or spins of the reels.

In a further alternative embodiment of the present invention if a player achieves a bonus triggering or qualifying condition during the primary game the gaming device initiates a free spins game. In the free spins game the gaming device provides one or more activations or free spins of the reels to the player. The gaming device or player continues to spin or activate the reels until there are no free spins remaining in the game. In another embodiment if a re triggering event occurs in a game the gaming device re triggers or re spins the reels in the game i.e. provides additional free spins in the game . The re triggering event may be a re trigger symbol occurring on the reels a re trigger symbol combination occurring on the reels or any suitable event. It should be appreciated that the gaming device may re trigger or re spin the reels one or more times in the game.

Referring to one embodiment of the present invention is illustrated. In this embodiment the gaming device includes a plurality of reels displayed to a player and the gaming device provides the player with a designated number of activations or free spins of the reels. The reels may be mechanical reels or video reels as described above. The reels include a plurality of symbols where the symbols include at least one wild symbol. A plurality of awards are associated with the symbols or combinations of the symbols and the awards may be values credits free spins free games multipliers or any suitable award or awards. The wild symbol or wild symbols are designated with the word WILD but may be designated with any suitable designator or symbol. In a game the wild symbol matches or substitutes for any one of the symbols on the reels in the game. In one embodiment the wild symbol substitutes for one of the symbols indicated on the same payline as the wild symbol. In another embodiment the wild symbol matches or substitutes for the most desirable symbol on a payline or on the reels such as the jackpot symbol or the symbol associated with the largest award in the game. A spins remaining display indicates the number of spins remaining in a game. A total award display indicates the total award accumulated by a player in the game.

In a game the gaming device or the player activates or spins the reels to indicate symbols on the reels. Symbols may be indicated on one or more reels such as in a scatter pay combination or on a single payline associated with the reels. The gaming device provides any awards associated with any winning symbol combination indicated on the reels. The gaming device or player continues to activate or spin the reels for a designated number of spins in a game until there are no activations or spins remaining in the game. The player then receives the total award indicated in the total award display .

In one embodiment of the present invention the gaming device enhances a player s opportunity to obtain one or more awards in a game by utilizing the indicated wild symbol to provide a better opportunity of obtaining an award in a game. In this embodiment the gaming device or player spins the reels and to indicate symbols on the reels. If a wild symbol is indicated on one of a plurality of paylines associated with the reels the reel including the wild symbol is frozen or held stationary. The gaming device then activates the reels not including the reel having the wild symbol to enhance the opportunity of obtaining an award in the game. Because the wild symbol is held stationary or in place on one of the paylines associated with the reels less symbols must be indicated on the reels to obtain a winning symbol combination in the game. For example in the wild symbol is indicated on payline . The gaming device or players spins the other reels and to attempt to obtain a winning symbol combination including the wild symbol . However the number of reels that are activated in the game decrease which thereby increases the chance or opportunity that the player will obtain a winning symbol combination including the wild symbol in the game. The player or gaming device continues to spin the reels and for the remaining number of activations in the game until there are no activations or spins remaining in the game. The gaming device provides the player with any awards associated with winning symbol combinations indicated on the reels. The awards are added to the total award display and the player receives the total award indicated by the total award display at the end of the game.

Referring to an example of the embodiment of is illustrated where the gaming device displays a plurality of reels and . The reels include a plurality of symbols having at least one wild symbol . A plurality of awards are associated with specific symbol combinations as indicated in the award summary table in . The winning symbol combinations are designated in the first column of the award summary table . Additionally the awards associated with each of the specific winning symbol combinations are indicated in the table. In this embodiment the winning symbol combinations include three matching symbols. It should be appreciated that the winning symbol combinations may include one or more matching symbols or any suitable symbol combinations in a game. In three paylines and are associated with the reels . In this example a winning symbol combination must be indicated on the middle payline or payline in the game. The gaming device provides the player with three activations or spins of the reels as indicated by the spins remaining display . Also the player begins the game with a total award of zero as indicated in the total award display .

Referring to the gaming device activates or spins the reels for the first time in the game. After the reels stop spinning a wild symbol is indicated on payline . However a winning symbol combination as designated in the award summary table in is not indicated on payline even though the wild symbol is indicated on the payline. Specifically the circle symbol the wild symbol and the heart symbol are indicated on payline which is not a winning symbol combination in the game. Therefore the gaming device freezes or holds reel stationary and thereby enhances the player s opportunity to obtain a winning symbol combination in the game. The gaming device will spin or activate reels and to indicate symbols on payline including the wild symbol . The player has two spins remaining as indicated in the spins remaining display . The player s total award is zero as indicated in the total award display .

Referring to the gaming device activates or spins the reels for a second time in the game. In this activation or spin the gaming device only activates or spins reels and because reel is held stationary. Thus the player only needs to obtain two symbols one on each of the reels and on payline to obtain a winning symbol combination in the game. After this spin a heart symbol a wild symbol and a diamond symbol are indicated on payline . This combination of symbols is not a winning symbol combination as illustrated in the award summary table in . The player now has only one spin remaining in the game as indicated in the spins remaining display . Also the total award is zero as indicated in the total award display .

Referring to E the gaming device activates or spins the reels for the last time in the game. The reels stop spinning and indicate a bar symbol a wild symbol and a bar symbol on payline . Because the wild symbol matches or substitutes for one of the symbols indicated on the same payline as the wild symbol the wild symbol matches or substitutes as a bar symbol. Thus the symbol combination indicated on payline is three bar symbols. Three bar symbols represent a winning symbol combination in the game as illustrated in . The gaming device provides the award associated with this winning symbol combination which is five hundred and displays that award in the total award display . There are no spins remaining in the game as indicated by the spins remaining display . Therefore the gaming device provides the player with the total award indicated in the total award display which is five hundred.

In another alternative embodiment of the present invention the gaming device freezes or holds one of the reels stationary when a wild symbol is indicated on the reel on a designated payline associated with the reels and the award or awards if any associated with any winning symbol combinations occurring on the payline is less than a designated award value in the game. In this embodiment the gaming device designates an award value in the game. The designated award value defines a minimum award value or base award value to provide to a player in the game. The award value may be any suitable award value as desired by the game implementor but not exceeding the largest possible award in the game. Furthermore the designated award value may be predetermined randomly determined determined based on a wager made by the player or according to any suitable determination method.

The gaming device activates or spins the reels for a designated number of spins in the game. The gaming device provides the awards associated with any winning symbol combinations indicated on a designated payline associated with the reels. If a wild symbol is indicated on the payline and the award or awards if any associated with any winning symbol combinations indicated on the payline is less than the designated award value the gaming device freezes or holds the reel including the wild symbol stationary and activates the other reels in the game for the remaining number of activations. This provides the player with an enhanced opportunity to obtain an award or awards in the game using the wild symbol because the player needs less symbols to obtain a winning symbol combination in the game. Also the designated award value insures that if the player does obtain an award in the game the award will be above a specified award value which increases the player s excitement and enjoyment of the game.

Referring to A B C D and E an example of this embodiment is illustrated where the gaming device provides a player with three spins in a game. The gaming device designates an award value or award of fifty as the minimum award value in the game. Therefore if a wild symbol is indicated on the payline but a winning symbol combination having an award value of fifty or greater is not indicated on the payline the gaming device enhances the player s opportunity to obtain a winning symbol combination in the game by holding the reel including the wild symbol stationary for the remainder of the game. The player begins the game with a total award of zero as indicated in the total award in .

Referring to B an award summary table indicates winning symbol combinations and the awards associated with those winning symbol combinations in the game. In this embodiment a winning symbol combination includes three matching symbols. However it should be appreciated that any combination of symbols may be designated as a winning symbol combination in a game. Additionally any suitable award may be associated with a winning symbol combination in a game.

Referring to the gaming device activates or spins the reels for the first in this game. The reels stop spinning and indicate a bar symbol a wild symbol and a star symbol on payline . Although the player obtained a wild symbol on the payline the player did not obtain a winning symbol combination in the game. Specifically the player did not obtain a winning symbol combination that included an award greater than the designated award value of fifty as indicated in the award summary table in . Therefore the gaming device freezes or holds reel which includes the wild symbol stationary. The gaming device then activates or spins the other reels and for the remaining number of spins or activations in the game. The player has two activations or spins remaining in the game as indicated in the spins remaining display . The total award in the game is still zero as indicated in the total award display .

Referring to the gaming device activates or spins the reels for a second time in a game. A rectangle symbol a wild symbol and another rectangle symbol are indicated on payline . Because the wild symbol acts or substitutes for one of the symbols indicated on the same payline as the wild symbol which in this spins is a rectangle symbol a combination of three rectangle symbols is indicated on the payline. This symbol combination however does not include an award value greater than the designated award value of fifty as indicated in the award summary table in . Specifically an award of twenty five is associated with the symbol combination including three rectangle symbols which is less than the designated award value of fifty. However the gaming device continues to activate or spin the reels in the game. The player now has one spin remaining in the game as indicated by the spins remaining display . Furthermore the total award in the game is zero as indicated by the total award display .

Referring to the gaming device spins or activates the reels for the final time in the game. In this spin a star symbol a wild symbol and another star symbol are indicated on payline . An award of two hundred fifty is associated with a winning symbol combination including three star symbols as indicated in the award summary table . The award value of two hundred fifty is greater than the designated award value of fifty. Thus the gaming device provides this award to the player in the game. The award of two hundred fifty is transferred to the total award display as indicated by the total award display . The player does not have any spins remaining in the game as indicated by the spins remaining display . The gaming device therefore provides the total award of two hundred fifty as indicated in the total award display to the player and the game ends.

In a further alternative embodiment after the gaming device freezes or holds one of the reels stationary when a wild symbol is indicated on the reels the gaming device activates or spins the reels other than the held reel for a designated number of spins in the game and provides an award or awards associated with any winning symbol combinations including the wild symbol indicated on any of the paylines associated with the reels i.e. a scatter pay combination . For example in if one of the star symbols is located on payline and the other star symbol is located on payline the gaming device provides the award associated with a winning symbol combination including three star symbols i.e. two star symbols and the wild symbol because the winning combination of symbols including the wild symbol occurred on the reels. It should be appreciated that the winning symbol combination including the wild symbol may include any winning combination of symbols on the reels including the reel having the wild symbol. This embodiment provides the player with a greater opportunity to obtain an award or awards in a game using the wild symbol because the player can obtain a winning symbol combination on any of the reels instead of on a designated payline or paylines.

Referring to in another alternative embodiment the wild symbol includes at least one symbol indicator which points to or indicates one or more symbols on the reels in the scatter pay combination embodiment described above. In one aspect of this embodiment the indicator or indicators are stationary and point to a fixed location or locations on the reels. For example in the wild symbol includes two indicators which are in the form of arrows and . Indicator points to the symbol location on reel which is associated with payline . Indicator points to the symbol location on reel which is associated with payline . It should be appreciated that the indicators may be arrows pointers or any other suitable indicator. It should also be appreciated that the wild symbol may include one or more indicators and the indicators may point to any suitable location or locations on the reels. In this example the reel including the wild symbol is held stationary while the other reels i.e. the reels not including the wild symbol are activated. The reels stop and the indicators and associated with the wild symbol point to the circle symbol and another circle symbol . Thus the gaming device provides an award associated with a winning symbol combination including three circle symbols i.e. two circle symbols and the wild symbol . It should be appreciated that the indicators may indicate or point to a randomly selected location on the reels or a designated section on the reels.

In a further alternative embodiment of the present invention the symbols on the reels include at least one bonus symbol. When the bonus symbol is indicated on one or more designated paylines in a game the gaming device provides an additional award or bonus award in the game. The bonus award associated with the bonus symbol may be at least one free spin of the reels at least one free game and or at least one multiplier. It should be appreciated that the bonus award may be any suitable award as desired by the game implementor. The bonus award enables a player to obtain additional awards or additional spins of the reels in a game which further enhances the player s excitement and enjoyment of the game.

In another alternative embodiment a probability of being indicated on one or more paylines associated with the reels is associated with each of the symbols on the reels. In one embodiment the probability associated with the wild symbol is less than at least one of the probabilities associated with the other symbols on the reels. In another embodiment the probability associated with the wild symbol is less than a plurality of the probabilities associated with the other symbols on the reels. In a further embodiment the probability associated with the wild symbol is less than all of the probabilities associated with the other symbols on the reels. It should be appreciated that the probabilities associated with the symbols may be any suitable probabilities as desired by the game implementor.

In a further alternative embodiment the present invention is employed in a card game such as a video poker game. In this embodiment the gaming device display a plurality of cards to a player. The cards include a plurality of symbols including at least one wild symbol The symbols may be any suitable symbols such as numbers colors letters playing card suits images or any other suitable symbols or images. If a card includes a wild symbol but a winning combination of cards is not indicated the gaming device holds the card including the wild symbol. The gaming device then replaces at least one of the cards for a designated number of rounds. The number of rounds may be predetermined randomly determined determined based on a wager by a player or according to any suitable determination method. Thus the gaming device provides the player with additional opportunities to win awards related to the wild symbol on the cards. In one embodiment the gaming device replaces one or more of the cards in the rounds until a winning combination of cards is indicated. In another embodiment the gaming device replaces one or more of the cards until there are no rounds remaining in the game. In this embodiment the gaming device enables the player to obtain one or more awards in the game. In a further embodiment as described above the gaming device holds the card including the wild symbol when the wild symbol appears on the card and the award amount associated with the combination of symbols indicated by the cards is not greater than a designated award amount.

Referring to the above embodiment is illustrated where the gaming device displays five cards to the player in the game. The cards include a two of hearts a three of diamonds a wild symbol card a five of spades and a nine of diamonds . In this example a pair of matching cards is not a winning combination of cards. Therefore the combination of cards displayed in does not produce a winning combination of cards in the game. Because a wild symbol appears on one of the cards card and there are no winning combinations of cards in the game the gaming device holds card . The gaming device then replaces at least one of the cards other than the card including the wild symbol until a winning combination of cards is indicated such as three matching cards i.e. three of a kind or until there are no rounds remaining in the game. The gaming device then provides the player with the award associated with the winning combination of cards in the game as indicated by the total award display .

It should be appreciated that the present invention may be employed in a primary game a bonus game free spins game a sub game or in any suitable game.

While the present invention is described in connection with what is presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments it should be appreciated that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments and is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the claims. Modifications and variations in the present invention may be made without departing from the novel aspects of the invention as defined in the claims and this application is limited only by the scope of the claims.

