---

title: Nanoscale interconnection interface
abstract: One embodiment of the present invention provides a demultiplexer implemented as a nanowire crossbar or a hybrid nanowire/microscale-signal-line crossbar with resistor-like nanowire junctions. The demultiplexer of one embodiment provides demultiplexing of signals input on k microscale address lines to 2or fewer nanowires, employing supplemental, internal address lines to map 2nanowire addresses to a larger, internal, n-bit address space, where n>k. A second demultiplexer embodiment of the present invention provides demultiplexing of signals input on n microscale address lines to 2nanowires, with n>k, using 2, well-distributed, n-bit external addresses to access the 2nanowires. Additional embodiments of the present invention include a method for evaluating different mappings of nanowire addresses to internal address-spaces of different sizes, or to evaluate mappings of nanowires to external address-spaces of different sizes, metrics for evaluating address mapping and demultiplexer designs, and demultiplexer design methods.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08112700&OS=08112700&RS=08112700
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08112700
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080123
---
This application is a divisional application of application Ser. No. 11 115 887 filed Apr. 26 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 350 132 which in turn is a continuation in part of Application No. 10 659 892 filed Sep. 10 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 191 380 issued Mar. 13 2007 the contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention has been made with Government support under Agreement MDA972 01 3 005 awarded by DARPA Moletronics. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to nanoscale and hybrid nanoscale microscale electronic circuits and in particular to defect tolerant interconnection interface devices including demultiplexers that produce electrically distinguishable signal levels and that are defect tolerant.

The present invention is related to nanoscale electronic circuits including defect tolerant demultiplexers with electrically distinguishable output signal levels. In many embodiments these circuits are implemented using nanoscale or hybrid nanowire microscale crossbars.

Nanowire crossbars provide an enormous decrease in circuitry size compared with current photolithography produced microelectronic and sub microelectronic circuitry. However many alignment and spontaneous defect problems need to be overcome to successfully manufacture electronic devices that include nanoelectronic circuits including nanowire crossbars. A number of techniques and nanowire crossbar implementations have been designed to overcome these alignment and defect problems including configurable or reprogrammable nanowire crossbar implementations that allow defects to be detected and circumvented by programming configurations that provide desired functionality without incorporating defective molecular junctions. These techniques are not needed for current microelectronic circuitry produced by photolithographic techniques because microelectronic circuits can be assumed in the current discussion to be essentially perfect or more precisely the defect rate in photolithography produced microelectronic circuits is so far below the current defect rate in nanoscale electronic circuitry that the comparatively very low defect rate in microelectronic circuitry can be ignored.

Nanoscale electronic circuits need to interface to microelectronic circuitry in order to be incorporated within commercially viable and useful electronic devices. The interface between essentially non defective microelectronic circuitry and nanoelectronic circuitry is problematic. While various correctly functioning nanoelectronic circuits can be configured from defect prone nanowire crossbars these nanoscale circuits need to be interconnected with microelectronic circuits. The relatively high manufacturing defect rate that occurs in fabricating nanoelectronic devices may produce a yield of usable combination nanoscale microscale circuits too low to be economically viable. However it is not feasible to extend existing redundancy based defect avoidance strategies designed for nanoscale circuits to microelectronic circuitry through nanoscale to microscale interfaces because these redundancy based techniques depend on an ability to attempt a measurement of each junction in the nanoscale circuits to determine whether or not the junction is defective. Such individual access to junctions within an interconnection interface would require the interconnection interface to be properly functioning in the first place. In other words the redundancy based techniques assume defective nanoscale circuitry components but rely on an ability to address the components through a properly working interconnection interface. Thus defects in the interconnection interface result in degradation or complete lack of addressability of interconnection interface components. The interconnection interface may be viewed as a type of bootstrap mechanism that allows defect control in a nanoscale circuit the components of which are addressed through the bootstrap For example electronic memories based on nanowire crossbar implemented memory element arrays are attractive with respect to size and power consumption but are not economically viable using current designs and manufacturing strategies because defects in the interconnect would make large portions of the memory unaddressable pushing the effective cost bit of manufacture to a level too high to be competitive.

Another problem that arises in nanoscale electronics is that the separations between ON and OFF voltage or current states may not be sufficiently large to distinguish between ON and OFF states in the presence of noise and imperfect manufacturing tolerances in certain types of circuits including in groups of nanowires activated by intersecting address signal lines in demultiplexers and other types of circuits. For binary logic based circuitry an easily detected voltage or current separation between 1 or ON and 0 or OFF states is needed. In certain types of demultiplexers for example one of a large set of nanowires may be addressed by the voltage or current states on a smaller number of address lines that cross the nanowire of interest. If the selected nanowire is designed to have a low 0 or synonymously OFF state and the unselected nanowires are designed to have a high 1 or synonymously ON state then the voltage or current difference between the selected nanowire and the lowest voltage or lowest current unselected nanowire must be sufficiently large to be easily detected. Unfortunately the electronic characteristics of nanowire molecular junctions may be difficult to precisely manufacture leading to leaky diodes resistors with a wide variation in resistance and leaky transistors in turn leading to undesirably narrow differences between ON and OFF states in addressed nanowires.

For these reasons designers and manufacturers of nanoscale electronic circuitry and in particular nanoscale electronic memories have recognized the need for defect tolerant interconnection within nanoscale circuitry in the interface between microscale and nanoscale circuits. Moreover designers and manufacturers of nanoscale electronic circuitry have recognized the need for interconnections with distinguishable signal levels between nanowires and address signal lines that select one or a subset of nanowires to have a different voltage or current state than the remaining nanowires.

One embodiment of the present invention provides a demultiplexer implemented as a nanowire crossbar or a hybrid nanowire microscale signal line crossbar with resistor like nanowire junctions. The demultiplexer of one embodiment provides demultiplexing of signals input on k microscale address lines to 2or fewer nanowires employing supplemental internal address lines to map 2nanowire addresses to a larger internal n bit address space where n k. A second demultiplexer embodiment of the present invention provides demultiplexing of signals input on n microscale address lines to 2nanowires with n k using 2 well distributed n bit external addresses to access the 2nanowires. Additional embodiments of the present invention include a method for evaluating different mappings of nanowire addresses to internal address spaces of different sizes or to evaluate mappings of nanowires to external address spaces of different sizes metrics for evaluating address mapping and demultiplexer designs and demultiplexer design methods.

Various embodiments of the present invention include combined nanoscale microscale electronic memory devices and fault tolerant interconnections between microelectronic circuits and nanoelectronic circuits within the electronic memory. Specific embodiments include nanoscale and hybrid nanoscale microscale demultiplexes. Embodiments of the present invention employ concepts and mathematical techniques developed for error control coding used in various data transmission applications. Therefore in a first subsection a mathematical description of a number of error control encoding techniques is provided. In a second subsection a partially nanoscale electronic memory is described. In a third subsection a method for determining the nanoelectronic to microelectronic circuit interface topologies within the electronic memory is described. In a fourth subsection resistor based demultiplexers and methods for designing demultiplexers and evaluating demultiplexer designs are described.

Embodiments of the present invention employ concepts derived from well known techniques in error control encoding. An excellent reference for this field is the textbook Error Control Coding The Fundamentals and Applications Lin and Costello Prentice Hall Incorporated New Jersey 1983. In this subsection a brief description of the error detection and error correction techniques used in error control encoding are described. Additional details can be obtained from the above referenced textbook or from many other textbooks papers and journal articles in this field. The current subsection represents a rather mathematically precise but concise description of certain types of error control encoding techniques. The current invention employs concepts inherent in these error control encoding techniques for a different purpose. Error control encoding techniques systematically introduce supplemental bits or symbols into plain text messages or encode plain text messages using a greater number of bits or symbols than absolutely required in order to provide information in encoded messages to allow for errors arising in storage or transmission to be detected and in some cases corrected. One effect of the supplemental or more than absolutely needed bits or symbols is to increase the distance between valid codewords when codewords are viewed as vectors in a vector space and the distance between codewords is a metric derived from the vector subtraction of the codewords. The current invention employs concepts used in error control coding to add supplemental address signal lines to increase the distance between valid addresses in order to correspondingly increase the signal separation e.g. voltage or current between ON and OFF states of address signal lines and to provide defective junction tolerance in interface interconnections. Thus in the current invention the plain text and encoded messages of error control encoding are analogous to input addresses and coded addresses and the additional or greater number than needed symbols or bits in error control encoding are analogous to supplemental or a greater than absolutely needed number of address signal lines.

In describing error detection and correction it is useful to describe the data to be transmitted stored and retrieved as one or more messages where a message comprises an ordered sequence of symbols that are elements of a field F. A message can be expressed as . . . where F

The field F is a set that is closed under multiplication and addition and that includes multiplicative and additive inverses. It is common in computational error detection and correction to employ fields comprising a subset of integers with sizes equal to a prime number with the addition and multiplication operators defined as modulo addition and modulo multiplication. In practice the binary field is commonly employed. Commonly the original message is encoded into a message c that also comprises an ordered sequence of elements of the field F expressed as follows c c c . . . c where c F

Block encoding techniques encode data in blocks. In this discussion a block can be viewed as a message comprising a fixed number of symbols k that is encoded into a message c comprising an ordered sequence of n symbols. The encoded message c generally contains a greater number of symbols than the original message and therefore n is greater than k. The r extra symbols in the encoded message where r equals n k are used to carry redundant check information to allow for errors that arise during transmission storage and retrieval to be detected with an extremely high probability of detection and in many cases corrected.

In a linear block code the 2codewords form a k dimensional subspace of the vector space of all n tuples over the field F. The Hamming weight of a codeword is the number of non zero elements in the codeword and the Hamming distance between two codewords is the number of elements in which the two codewords differ. For example consider the following two codewords a and b assuming elements from the binary field a 1 0 0 1 1 b 1 0 0 0 1 The codeword a has a Hamming weight of 3 the codeword b has a Hamming weight of 2 and the Hamming distance between codewords a and b is 1 since codewords a and b differ only in the fourth element. Linear block codes are often designated by a three element tuple n k d where n is the codeword length k is the message length or equivalently the base 2 logarithm of the number of codewords and d is the minimum Hamming distance between different codewords equal to the minimal Hamming weight non zero codeword in the code.

The encoding of data for transmission storage and retrieval and subsequent decoding of the encoded data can be notationally described as follows when no errors arise during the transmission storage and retrieval of the data c s c r where c s is the encoded message prior to transmission and c r is the initially retrieved or received message. Thus an initial message is encoded to produce encoded message c s which is then transmitted stored or transmitted and stored and is then subsequently retrieved or received as initially received message c r . When not corrupted the initially received message c r is then decoded to produce the original message . As indicated above when no errors arise the originally encoded message c s is equal to the initially received message c r and the initially received message c r is straightforwardly decoded without error correction to the original message .

When errors arise during the transmission storage or retrieval of an encoded message message encoding and decoding can be expressed as follows Thus as stated above the final message may or may not be equal to the initial message s depending on the fidelity of the error detection and error correction techniques employed to encode the original message s and decode or reconstruct the initially received message c r to produce the final received message r . Error detection is the process of determining that while error correction is a process that reconstructs the initial encoded message from a corrupted initially received message 

The encoding process is a process by which messages symbolized as are transformed into encoded messages c. Alternatively a message can be considered to be a word comprising an ordered set of symbols from the alphabet consisting of elements of F and the encoded messages c can be considered to be a codeword also comprising an ordered set of symbols from the alphabet of elements of F. A word can be any ordered combination of k symbols selected from the elements of F while a codeword c is defined as an ordered sequence of n symbols selected from elements of F via the encoding process c c

Linear block encoding techniques encode words of length k by considering the word to be a vector in a k dimensional vector space and multiplying the vector by a generator matrix as follows Notationally expanding the symbols in the above equation produces either of the following alternative expressions 

Note that in this discussion a convention is employed in which the check symbols precede the message symbols. An alternate convention in which the check symbols follow the message symbols may also be used with the parity check and identity submatrices within the generator matrix interposed to generate codewords conforming to the alternate convention. Thus in a systematic linear block code the codewords comprise r parity check symbols cfollowed by the symbols comprising the original word . When no errors arise the original word or message occurs in clear text form within and is easily extracted from the corresponding codeword. The parity check symbols turn out to be linear combinations of the symbols of the original message or word .

Hamming codes are linear codes created for error correction purposes. For any positive integer m greater than or equal to 3 there exists a Hamming code having a codeword length n a message length k number of parity check symbols r and minimum Hamming distance das follows 2 1 21 d 3 The parity check matrix H for a Hamming Code can be expressed as where Iis an m m identity matrix and the submatrix Q comprises all 2 m 1 distinct columns which are m tuples each having 2 or more non zero elements. For example for m 3 a parity check matrix for a 7 4 3 linear block Hamming code is

As will be discussed below one embodiment of the present invention involves employing the above described error control coding techniques to a very different problem space in which rather than generating codewords of length k r from messages of length k interconnections between k r internal signal lines are generated from addresses input into k input signal lines. In other words one embodiment of the present invention involves applying error control coding techniques to addresses within an address space of size 2to generate interconnection mappings between address signal lines and up to 2signal lines addressed by the 2addresses.

Other types of codes are employed to increase the Hamming distance between codewords in various applications. Many of these alternative codes do not have the convenient properties of linear block codes including easy generation using generator matrices and the transparent pass through feature of linear block codes allowing for the encoded value to be directly read from the code word. For linear block codes a plain text message transfers directly to a codeword containing in addition parity check symbols or bits. In other types of codes the plain text message is not directly readable in a corresponding codeword. In both cases codewords contain a greater number of symbols or bits than absolutely needed to enumerate all valid messages to be encoded. In the case of linear block codes the additional symbols or bits are parity check symbols or bits that supplement the plain text symbols or bits while in the other types of codes valid messages are distributed throughout a vector space of dimension equal to the codeword size. It should be noted that in the following descriptions of the present invention the term supplemental address lines refers to either parity check address signal lines analogous to parity check symbols or bits in linear block codes or to the greater number than absolutely needed address signal lines analogous to the greater number than needed symbols or bits in these other types of codes. However these other codes may have different advantages that provide utility in different applications.

Combinatoric codes provide a straightforward approach to increasing the Hamming distance between codewords. To create a combinatoric code also known as a constant weight code or an r hot code one may select combinations of r bits having a fixed number of 1 s from a total codeword space of n bits to produce

Another similar type of code referred to as a random code is obtained by choosing random codewords of fixed length. For example one can choose a fixed length binary n bit codeword size and select a sufficient number of random n bit binary numbers in order to obtain a desired number of binary codewords 2 where n Ak. The greater the value of A the greater the expected minimum Hamming distance between the codewords. When creating random codes distance checking can be carried out to reject new codewords that have a Hamming distance less than a minimum value with respect to those codewords already selected and random codewords having approximately equal numbers of 1 and 0 bits can be used in order to obtain an increased average Hamming distance and increased expected minimum Hamming distance.

Yet another type of code that may be employed in the methods and systems of the present invention is a random linear code. In a random linear code the generator matrix is randomly generated under linearity constraints rather than generated as the combination of a parity check matrix generated from linear sums of information elements that represent parity check sums and an identity matrix. A random linear block code is generally not systematic but linear.

In general codes that may be employed in the methods and systems of the present invention may be systematic and linear systematic and non linear non systematic and linear or non systematic and non linear. For example if C is a code and u is an arbitrary n vector then the coset C u C u c c C is another code with the same distance properties and hence with the same error correction and defect tolerance capabilities. If C is linear and u is non zero then C is non linear technically an affine space. Certain embodiments discussed below employ systematic non linear codes see for example while others employ systematic linear block codes see for example . The random codes are generally neither systematic nor linear. Although linear block codes have properties that are attractive in the applications to be discussed below linear codes systematic codes and non linear non systematic codes may also be employed in various embodiments of the present invention.

In the current subsection a combined nanoscale microscale electronic memory device is discussed. The present invention is not limited in applicability to nanoscale microscale electronic memory devices or even to nanoscale microscale electronic devices but may also find application in purely nanoscale interconnection interfaces and other nanoscale devices and may also find application in sub microscale electronic devices interconnection interfaces and memories. In the described embodiment single nanowires are uniquely addressed by addresses transmitted to intersecting microscale address signal lines. In other circuits subsets of nanowires may be addressed rather than single nanowires by a single address. The present invention is related to general addressing of components within a circuit and not limited to uniquely addressing single components or signal lines nor limited to components or signal lines of particular sizes.

The external sets of address signal lines and are electronically used within the electronic memory device to select a column and row of nanowire crossbar memory element subarrays and therefore a particular nanowire crossbar memory element subarray and to select a particular row or column within a selected nanowire crossbar array. For example in one configuration the upper three address signal lines of the set of address signal lines may specify one of seven horizontal rows of nanowire crossbar subarrays and the upper three address signal lines of the set of address signal lines may specify one of six vertical columns of nanowire crossbar memory element subarrays. The lower three address signal lines in the set of address signal lines specify a particular row of nanoscale memory elements within a selected nanowire crossbar memory element subarray and the lower three address signal lines in the set of address signal lines specifies a particular column of nanoscale memory elements within a selected nanowire crossbar memory element subarray. Note that in general a larger number of input address signal lines would be employed to address a larger number of columns and rows of nanowire crossbar memory element subarrays than shown in as well as a larger number of nanoscale memory element rows and columns within each nanowire crossbar memory element subarray. The small number of input address lines shown in is chosen for illustration convenience only.

Each row and column of nanowire crossbar memory element subarrays is accessed through an encoder . The encoder receives in the high order three input address signal lines and outputs a larger number of coded address signal lines. For example encoder receives three address signal lines directly interconnected with the high order input address signal lines and outputs five coded address signal lines . The address signal lines output by an encoder pass through all of the nanowire crossbar memory element subarrays within the column or row accessed via the encoder. For example the five coded address signal lines output by the encoder pass through nanowire crossbar memory element subarrays . Each nanowire crossbar memory element subarray is also connected to two reference voltage signal lines. For example nanowire crossbar memory element subarray is connected to the reference voltage through reference voltage signal lines and .

The input address signal lines may be microscale address signal lines or may have even larger dimensions. The coded address signal lines are generally microelectronic or submicroelectronic signal lines produced by currently available photolithographic techniques. The nanowire crossbar memory element subarrays by contrast are composed of nanoscale wires or nanowires. Nanowires have cross sectional diameters of less than 100 nanometers while submicroelectronic signal lines have cross sectional diameters of greater than 100 nanometers. Therefore there are two nanoscale interconnection interfaces within each nanowire crossbar memory element subarray. In general the circuitry within the encoders is significantly more complex than the circuitry within the nanowire crossbar memory element subarrays. However each encoder provides access to an entire row or column of nanowire crossbar memory element subarrays thus amortizing the complexity of the encoders over an often large number of nanowire crossbar memory element subarrays. As is discussed below in great detail defect and fault tolerant nanoscale interconnection interfaces are facilitated by the supplemental address signal lines output by each encoder.

It should be noted that the term coded signal line refers in this document to either a single coded signal line or to a complementary pair of signal lines. In the following descriptions various formulas and expressions are provided that are related to the number of coded signal lines in particular implementations or used in particular techniques. If for example a formula or expression refers to n coded signal lines then n refers to the number of independent signal lines or to the number of independent complementary pairs of signal lines. In certain implementations single independent coded signal lines may be employed. In other implementations including the implementations discussed in this document complementary pairs of signal are employed.

The microscale to nanoscale demultiplexer interface discussed above with reference to is fabricated with rectifying connections or molecular diodes interconnecting the address signal lines with the nanowires. In alternative embodiments non rectifying resistive connections may be employed with resistances substantially less than the resistance of the resistor interconnecting the nanowires with the reference voltage signal line. When resistive interconnections are employed rather than diode interconnections the voltage differences between the selected low voltage nanowire and the remaining nanowires may be significantly less when a similar high voltage Vis applied to selected address signal lines. Moreover while the difference in the voltages of the non selected nanowires in the above example is small 0.05 volts the voltage states of the non selected nanowires in a resistive connection implementation span a much larger range. Particularly in the resistive connection implementation as the number of nanowires interconnected to the interface increases problems arise in establishing voltage differences that are easily distinguished from one another and from the low voltage state of the selected nanowire.

Because the nanoscale rectifying connections cannot be perfectly fabricated and the because the effects of failed open state connections so seriously degrades the ability to uniquely address nanowires using different input addresses a method for ameliorating the effects of failed nanoscale interconnections has been recognized as necessary in order to produce commercially viable products that include nanoelectronic circuits. shows a modified nanoscale interconnection interface similar to the interconnect interfaces illustrated in . As shown in the modified nanoscale interconnection interface has four addressable nanowires with two bit addresses 00 01 10 and 11 as in the interconnection interface shown in . The modified interconnection interface also employs two address signal lines and into which two bit addresses may be input. As in the previously described interconnection interface shown in each address signal line and is split into a complementary pair and respectively. However an additional complementary pair of signal lines and with signals derived from the signals input to the address signal lines and are also selectively interconnected to the nanowires via rectifying nanoscale connections such as rectifying nanoscale connection . The complementary signal line pair represents a parity check signal line derived from the address signal lines by an inverted XOR logic component . In essence the parity check complementary pair adds an additional although derived and therefore not independent address bit so that the nanowires can be considered to have three bit addresses. In the derived parity check address bit is shown parenthesized as for example the parenthesized parity check address bit for nanowire . illustrate nanowire voltage states arising from input of four different two bit addresses to the address signal lines of the nanoscale interconnection interface shown in . As can be seen in each different input address uniquely selects the nanowire designated as having that address as in the case of the nanoscale interconnection interface described above with reference to . shows a table indicating voltage states of nanowires resulting from address signals input to microelectronic address signal lines of a nanoscale interconnection interface using the same illustration conventions as used in and for the defective nanoscale interconnection interface illustrated in . Comparison of to reveals an immediate advantage arising from the presence of the parity check complementary pair and in . As can be seen in regardless of the input address each nanowire either has the low voltage selected nanowire state or a single high voltage state. Thus all voltages shown in are either 0 or 0.95 V while in the non selected voltage states range from 0.90 Vto 0.95 V. Thus the added parity check complementary signal line pair decreases the range of voltage states for non selected nanowires and increases the voltage separation of selected nanowires from non selected nanowires.

This robustness in addressability despite address bit defects or conversions can be geometrically represented. illustrate address space topologies of the fully occupied two bit address space and a sparsely occupied three bit address space. In each different two bit address is represented by a disk or node. For example the two bit address 01 is represented by node . Edges such as edge interconnect nodes the addresses for which can be interconverted by converting a single bit 1 to 0 or from 0 to 1. Thus as shown by the dotted arrow a single bit conversion within a two bit address in the two bit fully occupied address space produces another address within the two bit fully occupied address space. illustrates a three bit sparsely occupied address space. In four of the eight addresses within the three bit address space are occupied or are valid. The four valid addresses are 001 010 100 and 111 . Note that the occupied or valid addresses are arranged spatially as the vertices of a tetrahedron and each valid address is separated from any other valid address by at least two edges. Thus two address bit conversions are required to produce a different valid address from any given address as indicated by the two dotted arrows and in . The concepts illustrated geometrically in can be generalized to a sparsely occupied address space of any size with addresses arranged so that a transformation of more than one bit is needed to transform one valid address to another.

Graphical representations similar to those shown in are commonly employed to represent the distances between codewords in linear block codes used for error control coding. Linear block codes are discussed above in the subsection on error control coding. Although error control coding is employed for real time transmission of data through imperfect communications media and for storage and recovery of data from error prone mass storage devices the similarity between the problem spaces arising in ameliorating defective interconnections between nanoelectronic and microelectronic circuits and in data transmission and data storage inspired the rigorous approach of the present invention to designing redundant parity check address signal lines in addition to direct address signal lines. These redundant signal lines complement the direct address signal lines increasing the robustness of nanoscale interconnection interfaces in the manner that the single additional parity check complementary signal line pair first illustrated in markedly increased the defect tolerance of the nanoscale interconnection interface shown in with respect to the interconnection interface shown in .

The demultiplexer or nanoscale interconnection interface can also be easily configured using the generator matrix used for designing the encoder. illustrates derivation of a demultiplexer corresponding to the encoding circuit derived in . A matrix A with 7 columns and 128 rows that includes each possible input address can be multiplied by the generator matrix G with 12 columns and 7 rows to produce a matrix D of codewords with 12 columns and 128 rows. Each codeword or row of the matrix D corresponds to a coded address that designates a particular nanowire within a crossbar access to the nanowires of which is provided by the demultiplexer. Thus each row in the matrix D corresponds to a nanowire of the accessed nanowire crossbar and column in the matrix D corresponds to an address signal line output from an encoder. For example the first two rows of the matrix D correspond to crossbar nanowires and the first seven columns of matrix D correspond to the seven coded address signal lines see also in corresponding to the input address signal lines to the encoder in and the final 5 columns of matrix D correspond to the five coded address signal lines see also output by the encoder. If an element of a codeword in a row of matrix D has the value 1 then the nanowire corresponding to the codeword is interconnected to the address signal line corresponding to the column of matrix D in which the element occurs. In other words the 1 values in matrix D correspond to the pattern of interconnections between coded address signal lines and nanowires while 0 values correspond to the pattern of overlapping but not interconnected nanowires and address signal lines. In many embodiments each address signal line shown in is implemented as a complementary pair and so the 1 values in matrix D correspond to the pattern of interconnections between non inverted address signal lines of complementary address signal line pairs while the 0 values in matrix D correspond to the pattern of interconnections between the inverted or complementary address signal lines of the complementary address signal line pairs. The generator matrix for a linear block code can therefore be used to straightforwardly design encoders as well as corresponding demultiplexers or nanoscale interconnection interfaces. The full A G and D matrices for the example of are provided below 

Although linear block codes provide conveniences in the above application combinatoric random and other types of codes including linear codes systematic codes linear systematic codes and non linear non systematic codes may also be employed in order to produce increased fault tolerance increased defect tolerance and increased ON and OFF state voltage or current separation. Techniques fabricating randomly interconnected address signal lines and addressed nanowires have been disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 256 767. Using these techniques to interconnect a larger number of coded address signal lines than the number of input address signal lines where the voltage or current states of the supplemental address signal lines are derived by Boolean logic from the input address signal lines produces an address space corresponding to a random fixed length code with very good expected minimum Hamming distances between addresses. However a table driven encoder needs to be used in order to encode input addresses into the coded address space. Encoders somewhat more complex than those used for the above described linear block code determined address spaces can be used to encode input addresses into coded addresses corresponding to a combinatoric code. As discussed above combinatoric codes also provide minimum Hamming distances of at least 2 and even better average Hamming distances between codewords and therefore may provide a reasonably high degree of fault tolerance and ON OFF state voltage or current separation.

As discussed above the mathematical techniques employed for linear block encoding and decoding can be used for constructing encoders and demultiplexers for interfacing microelectronic address signal lines to nanoelectronic circuits. However there are many different possible linear block codes having a variety of different ratios of supplemental e.g. parity check symbols to information symbols. A designer of nanoscale interconnection interfaces needs to therefore consider various tradeoffs that arise when the number of supplemental address signal lines is increased to provide greater and greater levels of fault tolerance. On one hand increasing the supplemental address signal lines increases the ability to uniquely address nanowires in the presence of nanowire to address signal line connection defects. However increasing the number of supplemental address signal lines increases the cost of manufacture and increases the complexity size and cost of the encoders. Therefore a designer or manufacturer of devices that include both nanoelectronic circuits and microelectronic circuits needs to select linear block codes or other specification means appropriate for the expected or observed connection defect probability in the devices balancing the cost of supplemental address signal lines with the degree of increased fault tolerance and defect tolerance obtained by adding the supplemental address signal lines.

One way to consider and quantify the costs and advantages associated with adding supplemental address signal lines is to determine a yield for the overall electronic circuit defined as the number of addressable memory bits per unit of chip area. The microelectronic circuits at least in initial designs make up the greatest part of a mixed nanoscale and microscale electronic circuit. When the area of the nanoelectronic circuitry is small compared to the total area of the mixed circuit then the area of the mixed circuit is proportional to n the number of address signal lines and supplemental address signal lines. The expected number of addressable bits per unit area is then given by the expression 

Another way to consider the costs and benefits of supplemental address signal lines is to calculate the probability that a particular nanowire is addressable despite the occurrence of interconnection defects. Consider two different nanowire addresses c and d generated as codewords in a linear block code as discussed above. The two addresses c and d will collide due to defective connections when address d is defective in all positions in which its address bits differ from those of address c. The probability of such address collisions is p where p is the probability of a defective nanowire junction. Assuming that defects are statistically independent the overall probability that address c is not disabled by any other address is given by the following expression 

Next one can compute the probability of a nanowire not being disabled. Let e be the characteristic vector of an error pattern where an element of e has the value 1 if there is a defective connection corresponding to the position of the element for a nanowire. The set of locations where ehas the value 1 is called the support of e. The error pattern vector dominates an n vector c if the support of e includes the support of c. An error pattern e on address zero disables address c if and only if e dominates C. If D C denotes the set D C e e dominates c for some c C then the probability that e acting on address zero disables some other address is equal to Prob e D C . The probability that address zero is disabled because it disables some other address is then given by 

Both yield and expected percentage of addressable nanowire calculations can be employed along with cost functions to compute the manufacturing costs of adding supplemental address signal lines to determine the optimal design for encoders and demultiplexers or nanoscale interconnection interfaces. The above described methods are but a few of the possible approaches to quantifying the tradeoffs in advantages and disadvantages between different interconnection topologies numbers of supplemental signal lines different types of address coding and other such variations and considerations. These methods are not necessarily constrained to select only one of a number of possible methodologies and topologies but may also select various combinations of methodologies and topologies that confer greater advantages than can be obtained from a single method and topology.

The technique of adding supplemental address signal lines to a minimal set of signal lines in order to ameliorate the occurrence of defective connections within a nanoscale interconnection interface has almost limitless variations and applications. For example while resistor based and diode based interconnections are discussed above the techniques of the present invention may also be applied to transistor based interconnections where due to manufacturing imperfections and deficiencies transistors may leak appreciable current in OFF states. In transistor based interconnections the fault tolerance defect tolerance and ON OFF state separation characteristics supplied by supplemental address signal lines are useful to produce good yields of nanoscale devices. illustrate diode based and equivalent transitor based demultiplexers similar to demultiplexers illustrated in previous figures. Note that in transistor based circuits the coded address signal lines gate the addressed signal lines rather than supply current or voltage directly to the addressed signal lines.

Although diode based demultiplexer circuits provide reasonable voltage margins and have other desirable characteristics for use in interconnecting microscale and sub microscale circuitry with nanoscale circuitry as discussed above diode based demultiplexers present certain problems including having a limited current density having a forward biased voltage drop that is large in comparison with the logic voltages used for logic 0 and logic 1 states and needing semiconductor signal lines rather than lower resistance metal signal lines. Because of these problems and additional practical problems associated with manufacturing nanoscale diode components resistor based demultiplexers may prove in many applications to be desirable alternatives to diode based demultiplexers.

To increase the output voltage margin fewer signal lines than the to maximum number of signal lines that can be addressed by the number of input address lines can be configured for output with their addresses carefully chosen to differ by a maximum possible number of bits. For example the resistor based demultiplexer shown diagrammatically in includes like the demultiplexer shown in three external input address signal lines . However the demultiplexer shown in includes only four output signal lines . The addresses of the output signal lines have been carefully chosen from among the 2possible 3 bit addresses to differ by two bits from one another. For example the 3 bit external address of signal line 000 differs from the 3 bit address 011 of signal line by two bits. The four output signal lines can each be assigned a unique internal two bit address as shown in comprising the first two bits of the 3 bit external internal address corresponding to the output signal lines. Thus the two bit internal addresses of the four output signal lines are 00 01 10 and 11 respectively. Because the 3 bit external address of each of the output signal lines differs from the external addresses of all other output signal lines by two bits the voltage state of a given output signal line differs from that of any other output signal line by

In summary supplemental address lines are employed to provide a larger address space than needed to uniquely address each signal line. This can be done by employing supplemental external address lines and using only a well distributed set of external addresses to access the signal lines or in other words by mapping a larger than needed external address space to a smaller internal address space with a one to one mapping between internal addresses and signal lines. Alternatively this can be done by employing supplemental internal address lines to map an external address space with a one to one mapping between external addresses and signal lines to a larger internal address space with well distributed addresses for each signal line.

As discussed in a previous section above binary linear codes BLC consisting of 2length n bit strings with a minimum Hamming distance d between code words referred to as n k d codes can be used to generate 2sparse addresses within a 2address space. The n bit address for each of 2output signal lines can be generated from the k bit address a of the output signal line by the linear transformation where G is a k by n generator matrix.

As discussed above with reference to the minimum difference in voltage states between output signal lines in a resistor based demultiplexer using supplemental address lines and n bit addresses generated according to a BLC is equal to the number of bits by which the two addresses of the two output signal lines most closely separated in voltage differ divided by the total number n address bits times the input voltage V. The number of bits by which the most closely separated output signal lines differ is therefore d the Hamming distance for the BLC. The maximum voltage state separation between output signal lines can be determined as the breadth of the address difference distribution. shows a hypothetical address difference distribution for various embodiments of the present invention represented as a bar graph. The minimum voltage separation between output signal lines d is shown in as the Hamming distance d and the maximum voltage difference between output signal lines d is the width of the distribution or greatest address difference in the distribution. The compression ratio of voltage margin resulting from operation of a resistor based demultiplexer is

An overall figure of merit for a BLC may be computed as a function of the metrics R and S as follows For example a simple overall figure of merit may be computed as 

Identification of the metrics R and S provide the basis for a method for identifying BLCs suitable for designing resistor based demultiplexers. is a control flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of a method for identifying desirable BLCs for developing resistor based demultiplexers that represents one embodiment of the present invention. In step a minimum k value needed for the demultiplexer is determined. Next in step a threshold of acceptability value for a computed overall metric is determined and used to initialize a threshold of acceptability variable. Then in the loop of steps each of a set of different BLCs are evaluated. In step the next of the set of BLCs is received and the parameters n k d d R and S are determined for the received BLC. In step the routine determines whether the parameter k for the received BLC is greater than a minimum k value determined in the step . If not the currently considered BLC is rejected. Then in step overall figure of merit is computed for the currently considered BLC and compared to the threshold of acceptability variable. If the overall metric computed for the received BLC is greater than the threshold then the received BLC is added to a list of acceptable codes in step and the threshold of acceptability variable may be adjusted in step based on the list of accepted BLCs following addition of the currently considered BLC. If the computed overall metric falls below or equal to the threshold as determined in step then the currently considered BLC is rejected. The loop continues if additional BLCs remain in the set of BLCs considered by the method as determined in step .

The redundancy provided by employing a greater number of address lines than needed to specify output signal lines that are densely addressed such as in a demultiplexer designed according to an k k 1 code is useful for increasing defect tolerance in nanoscale and partly nanoscale demultiplexers. A nanoscale demultiplexer designed according to a linear binary code with d 1 can suffer a number of defects before the output signal lines are no longer uniquely addressable. illustrate the effects of stuck open or broken wire defects within the to 3 address line 4 output signal line demultiplexer representing one embodiment of the present invention initially shown in . In the demultiplexer is intact with no defects. As initially shown in the distance in bits or voltage differential between the all zero code and the other 3 bit codes corresponding to the 2 bit addresses of the output signal lines are easily computed. For the intact demultiplexer the four 3 bit internal addresses corresponding to the four 2 bit addresses of the four output signal lines are separated from one other by two bits or a voltage differential of

Although the present invention has been described in terms of particular embodiments it is not intended that the invention be limited to this embodiment. Modifications within the spirit of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example in addition to linear block codes many other types of error control encoding techniques may be used to design resistor logic nanoscale and microscale electronic devices such as the demultiplexer embodiments described above. The nanoscale interconnection interfaces described above are suitable for composite nanoscale and microscale electronic devices including demultiplexers but are generally applicable to many different interfaces between microscale and nanoscale electronic circuitry as well as in purely nanoscale devices. Additionally the techniques of the present invention may be applied not only to two dimensional memories and circuits but also to three dimensional and higher dimensional circuits and memories. In the above discussion several metrics including an efficiency metric R a splay metric S and an overall figure of merit FOM but many other metrics can be devised and used to quantify desirable qualities of a demultiplexer or other addressing circuit designed to have an encoding based mapping between k output lines and n bit addresses where logn k. As discussed above those qualities include broad separation between addresses but narrow distributions of address separations for the k addresses and as few supplemental address lines as possible to achieve a desired robustness and voltage margin compression. Many different embodiments for searching for desirable encodings for addresses can be implemented in addition to the particular searching embodiment discussed above with reference to . These embodiments may be implemented in many different languages using many different control structures modular organizations variable names and other such programming parameters.

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. The foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the present invention are presented for purpose of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Obviously many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments are shown and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents 

