---

title: Method and apparatus to determine direction of motion in a sensor array of a touch sensing device
abstract: Direction of motion in a sensor array of a touch sensing device may be determined using a rule-based algorithm. A presence of a conductive object on a sensing device may be detected. First, second, and third locations of the detected presence of the conductive object may be determined. The first location may be compared with the second location using the rule-based algorithm, and a first direction of motion of the conductive object may be recognized based on the comparison. The second location may be compared with the third location using the rule-based algorithm, and the same first direction of motion of the conductive object may be recognized based on the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08085252&OS=08085252&RS=08085252
owner: Cypress Semiconductor Corporation
number: 08085252
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080529
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 932 337 filed May 29 2007 entitled Method of Determining Direction of Motion in a Sensor Array. 

This application relates to the field of user interface devices and in particular determining direction of motion in a sensor array of a touch sensing device.

Computing devices such as notebook computers personal data assistants PDAs and mobile handsets have user interface devices which are also known as human interface devices HID . One type of user interface device includes a capacitive sensor interface. The user may bring a conductive object e.g. a finger in close proximity to the capacitive sensor interface such as a touch sensor slider to activate a capacitive sensor. The touch sensor slider may be embedded into a mobile handset or PDA for instance for built in portability.

Described herein is a method and apparatus to determine direction of motion in a sensor array of a touch sensing device such as a touch sensor pad or a touch sensor slider. The following description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems components methods and so forth in order to provide a good understanding of several embodiments. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in simple block diagram format. Thus the specific details set forth are example embodiments. Particular implementations may vary from these specific details and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present embodiments.

Embodiments of a method and apparatus are described to determine direction of motion in a sensor array of a touch sensing device. In an embodiment the method may include detecting a presence of a conductive object on a sensing device. First second and third locations of the detected presence of the conductive object may be determined. The first location may be compared with the second location using a rule based algorithm and a first direction of motion of the conductive object may be recognized based on the comparison. The second location may be compared with the third location using the rule based algorithm and the same first direction of motion of the conductive object may be recognized based on the comparison.

Motion of the conductive object is detected in one or two axes to control cursor movement. This touch sensor pad includes a capacitive position sensing system which determines the position of the conductive object that is proximate to or touching the sensing surface . This touch sensor pad also may obtain the conductive object finger pressure by summing the capacitances measured on sense lines. A finger is present if the pressure exceeds a suitable threshold value.

The processing device may also include an analog block array not illustrated . The analog block array is also coupled to the system bus. Analog block array also may be configured to implement a variety of analog circuits e.g. ADC analog filters etc. using configurable UMs. The analog block array may also be coupled to the GPIO .

As illustrated capacitance sensor may be integrated into processing device . Capacitance sensor may include analog I O for coupling to an external component such as capacitive sensing devices. The sensing devices may include touch sensor pad touch sensor slider touch sensor buttons and or other devices. The operations of the capacitive sensing devices may include for example notebook cursor operations brightness control dimmer volume control graphic equalizer control speed control and or other control operations having gradual adjustments. It should also be noted that these embodiments of capacitive sensing implementations may be used in conjunction with non capacitive sensing elements including but not limited to pick buttons sliders for example display brightness and contrast scroll wheels multi media control for example volume track advance etc. handwriting recognition and numeric keypad operation.

In one embodiment the electronic system includes a touch sensor pad coupled to the processing device via bus . Touch sensor pad may include a multi dimension sensor array. The multi dimension sensor array may comprise a plurality of sensor elements organized as rows and columns. In an embodiment the electronic system includes a touch sensor slider coupled to the processing device via bus . The touch sensor slider may have dimensions of 3 to 6 inches. The touch sensor slider may include a single dimension sensor array. The single dimension sensor array comprises a plurality of sensor elements organized as rows or alternatively as columns or as a curvilinear row. In another embodiment the electronic system includes a touch sensor button coupled to the processing device via bus . Touch sensor button may include a single dimension or multi dimension sensor array. The single or multi dimension sensor array of the touch sensor button comprises a plurality of sensor elements. For a touch sensor button the plurality of sensor elements may be coupled together to detect a presence of a conductive object over the entire surface of the sensing device. Capacitance sensor elements may be used as non contact switches. These switches when protected by an insulating layer offer resistance to severe environments.

The electronic system may include any combination of one or more of the touch sensor pad touch sensor slider and or touch sensor button . In another embodiment the electronic system may also include non capacitance sensor elements coupled to the processing device via bus . The non capacitance sensor elements may include buttons light emitting diodes LEDs and other user interface devices such as a mouse a keyboard or other functional keys that do not specify capacitance sensing. In one embodiment buses and may be a single bus. Alternatively these buses may be configured into any combination of one or more separate buses.

The processing device may also provide value added functionality such as keyboard control integration LEDs battery charger and general purpose I O as illustrated as non capacitance sensor elements . Non capacitance sensor elements are coupled to the GPIO .

Processing device may include internal oscillator clocks and communication block . The oscillator clocks block provides clock signals to one or more of the components of processing device . Communication block may be used to communicate with an external component such as a host or host processor via host interface I F line . Alternatively processing block may also be coupled to embedded controller to communicate with the external components such as host . Interfacing to the host can be through various methods. In one embodiment interfacing with the host may be done using a standard PS 2 interface to connect to an embedded controller which in turn sends data to the host via low pin count LPC interface. In some instances it may be beneficial for the processing device to do both touch sensor pad and keyboard control operations thereby freeing up the embedded controller for other housekeeping functions. In another embodiment interfacing may be done using a universal serial bus USB interface directly coupled to the host via host interface line . Alternatively the processing device may communicate to external components such as the host using industry standard interfaces such as USB PS 2 inter integrated circuit I2C bus or system packet interface SPI . The embedded controller and or host may be coupled to the processing device with a ribbon or flex cable from an assembly which houses the touch sensor pad and processing device.

In one embodiment the processing device is configured to communicate with the embedded controller or the host to send data. The data may be a command or alternatively a signal. The data may include detection of direction of a conductive object in a sensor array. In an embodiment the electronic system may operate in both standard mouse compatible and enhanced modes. The standard mouse compatible mode utilizes the HID class drivers already built into the Operating System OS software of host . These drivers enable the processing device and sensing device to operate as a standard cursor control user interface device such as a two button PS 2 mouse. The enhanced mode may enable additional features such as scrolling reporting absolute position or disabling the sensing device such as when a mouse is plugged into the notebook. Alternatively the processing device may be configured to communicate with the embedded controller or the host using non OS drivers such as dedicated touch sensor pad drivers or other drivers known by those of ordinary skill in the art.

The processing device may operate to communicate data e.g. commands or signals using hardware software and or firmware and the data may be communicated directly to the processing device of the host such as a host processor or alternatively may be communicated to the host via drivers of the host such as OS drivers or other non OS drivers. It should also be noted that the host may directly communicate with the processing device via host interface .

In one embodiment the data sent to the host from the processing device includes click double click movement of the cursor scroll up scroll down scroll left scroll right step Back step Forward and the like. The data may include detection of direction of a conductive object in a sensor array. Other user interface device commands may be communicated to the host from the processing device . These commands may be based on gestures occurring on the sensing device that are recognized by the processing device such as tap push hop zigzag and other like gestures. Similarly signals may be sent that indicate the recognition of these operations.

In particular a tap gesture for example may be when the finger e.g. conductive object is on the sensing device for less than a threshold time. If the time the finger is placed on the touchpad is greater than the threshold time it may be considered to be a movement of the cursor in the x or y axes. For example scroll up scroll down scroll left and scroll right step back and step forward may be detected when the absolute position of the conductive object is within a pre defined area and movement of the conductive object is detected.

Processing device may reside on a common carrier substrate such as for example an integrated circuit IC die substrate a multi chip module substrate or the like. Alternatively the components of processing device may be one or more separate integrated circuits and or discrete components. In one embodiment processing device may be a Programmable System on a Chip PSoC processing device manufactured by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation San Jose Calif. Alternatively processing device may be one or more suitable types of processing devices known by those of ordinary skill in the art such as a microprocessor or central processing unit a controller special purpose processor digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or the like. In an alternative embodiment for example the processing device may be a network processor having multiple processors including a core unit and multiple microengines. Additionally the processing device may include any combination of general purpose processing device s and special purpose processing device s .

Capacitance sensor may be integrated into the IC of the processing device or alternatively in a separate IC. Alternatively descriptions of capacitance sensor may be generated and compiled for incorporation into other integrated circuits. For example behavioral level code describing capacitance sensor or portions thereof may be generated using a hardware descriptive language such as VHDL or Verilog and stored to a machine accessible medium e.g. CD ROM hard disk floppy disk etc. . Furthermore the behavioral level code can be compiled into register transfer level RTL code a netlist or even a circuit layout and stored to a machine accessible medium. The behavioral level code the RTL code the netlist and the circuit layout all represent various levels of abstraction to describe capacitance sensor .

It should be noted that the components of electronic system may include all the components described above. Alternatively electronic system may include only some of the components described above.

In one embodiment electronic system may be used in a notebook computer or the like. Alternatively the electronic system may be used in other applications such as for example a mobile handset a personal data assistant PDA a keyboard a television a remote control a monitor a handheld multi media device a handheld video player a handheld gaming device a control panel or other like device.

In one embodiment capacitance sensor may be a capacitive switch relaxation oscillator CSR . The CSR may have an array of capacitive touch switches using a current programmable relaxation oscillator an analog multiplexer digital counting functions and high level software routines to compensate for environmental and physical switch variations. The switch array may include combinations of independent switches sliding switches e.g. touch sensor slider and touch sensor pads implemented as a pair of orthogonal sliding switches. The CSR may include physical electrical and software components. The physical component may include the physical switch itself typically a pattern constructed on a printed circuit board PCB with an insulating cover a flexible membrane or a transparent overlay. The electrical component may include an oscillator or other means to convert a changed capacitance into a measured signal. The electrical component may also include a counter or timer to measure the oscillator output. The software component may include detection and compensation software algorithms to convert the count value into a switch detection decision. For example in the case of slide switches or X Y touch sensor pads a calculation for finding position of the conductive object to greater resolution than the physical pitch of the switches may be used.

It should be noted that capacitance may be measured using a relaxation oscillator current versus voltage phase shift measurement resistor capacitor charge timing capacitive bridge divider Sigma Delta modulator or charge transfer.

The current versus voltage phase shift measurement may include driving the capacitance through a fixed value resistor to yield voltage and current waveforms that are out of phase by a predictable amount. The drive frequency can be adjusted to keep the phase measurement in a readily measured range. The resistor capacitor charge timing may include charging the capacitor through a fixed resistor and measuring timing on the voltage ramp. Small capacitor values may specify very large resistors for reasonable timing. The capacitive bridge divider may include driving the capacitor under test through a fixed reference capacitor. The reference capacitor and the capacitor under test form a voltage divider. The voltage signal is recovered with a synchronous demodulator which may be done in the processing device . The charge transfer may be conceptually similar to an R C charging circuit. In this method Cis the capacitance being sensed. Cis the summing capacitor into which charge is transferred on successive cycles. At the start of the measurement cycle the voltage on Cis reset. The voltage on Cincreases exponentially and only slightly with each clock cycle. The time for this voltage to reach a specific threshold is measured with a counter. Additional details regarding these alternative embodiments have not been included so as to not obscure the present embodiments.

The conductive object in this case is a finger alternatively this technique may be applied to any conductive object for example a conductive door switch position sensor or conductive pen in a stylus tracking system.

The relaxation oscillator begins by charging the capacitor from a ground potential or zero voltage and continues to pile charge on the capacitor at a fixed charging current I until the voltage across the capacitor at node reaches a reference voltage or threshold voltage V. At V the relaxation oscillator allows the accumulated charge at node to discharge e.g. the capacitor to relax back to the ground potential and then the process repeats itself. In particular the output of comparator asserts a clock signal F e.g. F goes high which enables the reset switch . This resets the voltage on the capacitor at node to ground and the charge cycle starts again. The relaxation oscillator outputs a relaxation oscillator clock signal F having a frequency f dependent upon capacitance C of the capacitor and charging current I.

The comparator trip time of the comparator and reset switch add a fixed delay. The output of the comparator is synchronized with a reference system clock to guarantee that the comparator reset time is long enough to completely reset the charging voltage on capacitor . This sets a practical upper limit to the operating frequency. For example if capacitance C of the capacitor changes then fmay change proportionally according to Equation 1 . By comparing fof F against the frequency f of a known reference system clock signal REF CLK the change in capacitance AC can be measured. Accordingly equations 2 and 3 below describe that a change in frequency between F and REF CLK is proportional to a change in capacitance of the capacitor . .varies. where 2 3 

In one embodiment a frequency comparator may be coupled to receive relaxation oscillator clock signal F and REF CLK compare their frequencies fand f respectively and output a signal indicative of the difference f between these frequencies. By monitoring f one can determine whether the capacitance of the capacitor has changed.

In one embodiment the relaxation oscillator may be built using a timer to implement the comparator and reset switch . Alternatively the relaxation oscillator may be built using other circuiting. Additional details regarding operation of relaxation oscillators have not been included so as to not obscure the present embodiments.

Relaxation oscillator of includes all the components described with respect to and a selection circuit . The selection circuit is coupled to the plurality of sensor elements N the reset switch the current source and the comparator . Selection circuit may be used to allow the relaxation oscillator to measure capacitance on multiple sensor elements e.g. rows or columns . The selection circuit may be configured to sequentially select a sensor element of the plurality of sensor elements to provide the charge current and to measure the capacitance of each sensor element. In one embodiment the selection circuit is a multiplexer array of the relaxation oscillator . Alternatively the selection circuit may be other suitable circuitry outside the relaxation oscillator or even outside the capacitance sensor to select the sensor element to be measured. Capacitance sensor may include one relaxation oscillator and digital counter for the plurality of sensor elements of the sensor array. Alternatively capacitance sensor may include multiple relaxation oscillators and digital counters to measure capacitance on the plurality of sensor elements of the sensor array. The multiplexer array may also be used to ground the sensor elements that are not being measured. This may be done in conjunction with a dedicated pin in the GP10 port .

In another embodiment the capacitance sensor may be configured to simultaneously scan the sensor elements as opposed to being configured to sequentially scan the sensor elements as described above. For example the sensing device may include a sensor array having a plurality of rows and columns. The rows may be scanned simultaneously and the columns may be scanned simultaneously.

In one embodiment the voltages on all of the rows of the sensor array are simultaneously moved while the voltages of the columns are held at a constant voltage with the complete set of sampled points simultaneously giving a profile of the conductive object in a first dimension. Next the voltages on all of the rows are held at a constant voltage while the voltages on all the rows are simultaneously moved to obtain a complete set of sampled points simultaneously giving a profile of the conductive object in the other dimension.

In another embodiment the voltages on all of the rows of the sensor array are simultaneously moved in a positive direction while the voltages of the columns are moved in a negative direction. Next the voltages on all of the rows of the sensor array are simultaneously moved in a negative direction while the voltages of the columns are moved in a positive direction. This technique doubles the effect of any transcapacitance between the two dimensions or conversely halves the effect of any parasitic capacitance to the ground. In both methods the capacitive information from the sensing process provides a profile of the presence of the conductive object to the sensing device in each dimension. Alternatively other methods for scanning may be used to scan the sensing device.

Digital counter is coupled to the output of the relaxation oscillator . Digital counter receives the relaxation oscillator output signal F . Digital counter is configured to count at least one of a frequency or a period of the relaxation oscillator output received from the relaxation oscillator.

As previously described with respect to the relaxation oscillator when a finger or conductive object is placed on the switch the capacitance increases from Cto C Cso the relaxation oscillator output signal F decreases. The relaxation oscillator output signal F is fed to the digital counter for measurement. There are two methods for counting the relaxation oscillator output signal frequency measurement and period measurement. In one embodiment the digital counter may include two multiplexers and . Multiplexers and are configured to select the inputs for the PWM and the timer for the two measurement methods frequency and period measurement methods. Alternatively other selection circuits may be used to select the inputs for the PWM and the time . In another embodiment multiplexers and are not included in the digital counter for example the digital counter may be configured in one or the other measurement configuration.

In the frequency measurement method the relaxation oscillator output signal is counted for a fixed period of time. The counter is read to obtain the number of counts during the gate time. This method works well at low frequencies where the oscillator reset time is small compared to the oscillator period. A pulse width modulator PWM is clocked for a fixed period by a derivative of the system clock VC which is a divider from the 24 MHz system clock . Pulse width modulation is a modulation technique that generates variable length pulses to represent the amplitude of an analog input signal in this case VC . The output of PWM enables timer e.g. 16 bit . The relaxation oscillator output signal clocks the timer . The timer is reset at the start of the sequence and the count value is read out at the end of the gate period.

In the period measurement method the relaxation oscillator output signal gates a counter which is clocked by the system clock e.g. 24 MHz . In order to improve sensitivity and resolution multiple periods of the oscillator are counted with the PWM . The output of PWM is used to gate the timer . In this method the relaxation oscillator output signal drives the clock input of PWM . As previously described pulse width modulation is a modulation technique that generates variable length pulses to represent the amplitude of an analog input signal in this case the relaxation oscillator output signal . The output of the PWM enables a timer e.g. 16 bit which is clocked at the system clock frequency e.g. 24 MHz . When the output of PWM is asserted e.g. goes high the count starts by releasing the capture control. When the terminal count of the PWM is reached the capture signal is asserted e.g. goes high stopping the count and setting the PWM s interrupt. The timer value is read in this interrupt. The relaxation oscillator is indexed to the next switch e.g. capacitor to be measured and the count sequence is started again.

The two counting methods may have equivalent performance in sensitivity and signal to noise ratio SNR . The period measurement method may have a slightly faster data acquisition rate but this rate is dependent on software load and the values of the switch capacitances. The frequency measurement method has a fixed switch data acquisition rate.

The length of the counter and the detection time specified for the switch are determined by sensitivity specifications. Small changes in the capacitance on capacitor result in small changes in frequency. In order to find these small changes counting for a considerable time may be completed.

At startup or boot the switches e.g. capacitors N are scanned and the count values for each switch with no actuation are stored as a baseline array C . The presence of a finger on the switch is determined by the difference in counts between a stored value for no switch actuation and the acquired value with switch actuation referred to here as n. The sensitivity of a single switch is approximately 4 

The value of n should be large enough for reasonable resolution and clear indication of switch actuation. This drives switch construction decisions.

Cshould be as large a fraction of Cas possible. In one embodiment the fraction of C Cranges between approximately 0.01 to approximately 2.0. Alternatively other fractions may be used for C C. Since Cis determined by finger area and distance from the finger to the switch s conductive traces through the over lying insulator the baseline capacitance Cp should be minimized. The baseline capacitance Cincludes the capacitance of the switch pad plus any parasitics including routing and chip pin capacitance.

In switch array applications variations in sensitivity should be minimized. If there are large differences in n one switch may actuate at 1.0 cm while another may not actuate until direct contact. This presents a non ideal user interface device. There are numerous methods for balancing the sensitivity. These may include precisely matching on board capacitance with PC trace length modification adding balance capacitors on each switch s PC board trace and or adapting a calibration factor to each switch to be applied each time the switch is tested.

In one embodiment the PCB design may be adapted to minimize capacitance including thicker PCBs where possible. In one embodiment a 0.062 inch thick PCB is used. Alternatively other thicknesses may be used for example a 0.015 inch thick PCB.

It should be noted that the count window should be long enough for n to be a significant number. In one embodiment the significant number can be as little as 10 or alternatively as much as several hundred. In one embodiment where Cis 1.0 of C a typical weak switch and where the switch threshold is set at a count value of 20 n is found to be 2000 5 

Adding some margin to yield 2500 counts and running the frequency measurement method at 1.0 MHz the detection time for the switch is 4 microseconds. In the frequency measurement method the frequency difference between a switch with and without actuation i.e. C Cvs. C is approximately C 6 

This shows that the sensitivity variation between one channel and another is a function of the square of the difference in the two channels static capacitances. This sensitivity difference can be compensated using routines in the high level Application Programming Interfaces APIs .

In the period measurement method the count difference between a switch with and without actuation i.e. CP CF vs. CP is approximately 7 

The charge currents are typically lower and the period is longer to increase sensitivity or the number of periods for which fis counted can be increased. In either method by matching the static parasitic capacitances Cp of the individual switches the repeatability of detection increases making all switches work at the same difference. Compensation for this variation can be done in software at runtime. The compensation algorithms for both the frequency method and period method may be included in the high level APIs.

Some implementations of this circuit use a current source programmed by a fixed resistor value. If the range of capacitance to be measured changes external components i.e. the resistor should be adjusted.

Using the multiplexer array multiple sensor elements may be sequentially scanned to provide current to and measure the capacitance from the capacitors e.g. sensor elements as previously described. In other words while one sensor element is being measured the remaining sensor elements are grounded using the GPIO port . This drive and multiplex arrangement bypasses the existing GPIO to connect the selected pin to an internal analog multiplexer mux bus. The capacitor charging current e.g. current source and reset switch are connected to the analog mux bus. This may limit the pin count specification to simply the number of switches e.g. capacitors N to be addressed. In one embodiment no external resistors or capacitors are specified inside or outside the processing device to enable operation.

The capacitor charging current for the relaxation oscillator is generated in a register programmable current output DAC also known as IDAC . Accordingly the current source is a current DAC or IDAC. The IDAC output current may be set by an 8 bit value provided by the processing device such as from the processing core . The 8 bit value may be stored in a register or in memory.

Estimating and measuring PCB capacitances may be difficult the oscillator reset time may add to the oscillator period especially at higher frequencies and there may be some variation to the magnitude of the IDAC output current with operating frequency. Accordingly the optimum oscillation frequency and operating current for a particular switch array may be determined to some degree by experimentation.

In many capacitive switch designs the two plates e.g. and of the sensing capacitor are actually adjacent PCB pads or traces as indicated in . Typically one of these plates is grounded. Layouts for touch sensor slider e.g. linear slide switches or curved or circular slide switches and touch sensor pad applications have switches that are immediately adjacent. In this case all of the switches that are not active are grounded through the GPIO of the processing device dedicated to that pin. The actual capacitance between adjacent plates is small Cp but the capacitance of the active plate and its PCB trace back to the processing device to ground when detecting the presence of the conductive object may be considerably higher Cp Cf . In calculating the capacitance of two parallel plates fringing effects that substantially increase the switch to ground and PCB trace to ground capacitance may be taken into account.

Switch sensitivity i.e. actuation distance may be increased by one or more of the following 1 increasing board thickness to increase the distance between the active switch and any parasitics 2 minimizing PC trace routing underneath switches 3 utilizing a gridded ground with 50 or less fill if use of a ground plane is specified 4 increasing the spacing between switch pads and any adjacent ground plane 5 increasing pad area 6 decreasing thickness of any insulating overlay or 7 verifying that there is no air gap between the PC pad surface and the touching finger.

There is some variation of switch sensitivity as a result of environmental factors. A baseline update routine which compensates for this variation may be provided in the high level APIs.

Sliding switches may be used to control gradual adjustments. Examples include a lighting control dimmer volume control graphic equalizer and speed control. These switches are mechanically adjacent to one another. Actuation of one switch may result in partial actuation of physically adjacent switches. In one embodiment the actual position in the sliding switch is found by computing the centroid location of the set of switches activated. By comparing two or more samples of the centroid over time direction of motion of the conductive object may be detected. Computing the centroid involves a 24 bit multiply divide using difference counts from each sensor which may be a relatively slow calculation that utilizes memory and consumes power.

In applications for touch sensor sliders e.g. sliding switches and touch sensor pads finger or other capacitive object position is determined to more resolution as compared with the native pitch of the individual switches. The contact area of a finger on a sliding switch or a touch pad is often larger than any single switch. In one embodiment in order to calculate the interpolated position using a centroid the array is first scanned to verify that a given switch location is valid. The specification is for some number of adjacent switch signals to be above a noise threshold. When the strongest signal is found this signal and those immediately adjacent are used to compute a centroid. The centroid calculates the estimated position of the conductive object on the array.

In another embodiment the direction of motion of the capacitive object is found by a rule based algorithm described herein. Using this rule based algorithm rather than comparing two or more samples of the centroid over time direction of motion of the conductive object may be detected relatively faster with fewer calculations utilizing less memory and consuming less power. Because the rule based algorithm may not calculate the absolute position of the conductive object e.g. using centroid method described above substantial processing time may be saved in comparison to the centroid method in detecting the direction of the conductive object.

The rule based algorithm may be implemented as a simple state machine adding slider support without general purpose analog or digital blocks.

A physical touchpad assembly is a multi layered module to detect a conductive object. In one embodiment the multi layer stack up of a touchpad assembly includes a PCB an adhesive layer and an overlay. The PCB includes the processing device and other components such as the connector to the host used for operations for sensing the capacitance. These components are on the non sensing side of the PCB. The PCB also includes the sensor array on the opposite side the sensing side of the PCB. Alternatively other multi layer stack ups may be used in the touchpad assembly.

The PCB may be made of standard materials such as FR4 or Kapton e.g. flexible PCB . In either case the processing device may be attached e.g. soldered directly to the sensing PCB e.g. attached to the non sensing side of the PCB . The PCB thickness varies depending on multiple variables including height restrictions and sensitivity specifications. In one embodiment the PCB thickness is at least approximately 0.3 millimeters mm . Alternatively the PCB may have other thicknesses. It should be noted that thicker PCBs may yield better results. The PCB length and width is dependent on individual design specifications for the device on which the sensing device is mounted such as a notebook or mobile handset.

The adhesive layer is directly on top of the PCB sensing array and is used to affix the overlay to the overall touchpad assembly. Typical material used for connecting the overlay to the PCB is non conductive adhesive such as 3M 467 or 468. In one embodiment the adhesive thickness is approximately 0.05 mm. Alternatively other thicknesses may be used.

The overlay may be non conductive material used to protect the PCB circuitry to environmental elements and to insulate the user s finger e.g. conductive object from the circuitry. Overlay can be ABS plastic polycarbonate glass Mylar or the like. Alternatively other materials known by those of ordinary skill in the art may be used. In one embodiment the overlay has a thickness of approximately 1.0 mm. In another embodiment the overlay thickness has a thickness of approximately 2.0 mm. Alternatively other thicknesses may be used.

The sensor array may be a grid like pattern of sensor elements e.g. capacitive elements used in conjunction with the processing device to detect a presence of a conductive object such as finger to a resolution greater than that which is native. The touch sensor pad layout pattern maximizes the area covered by conductive material such as copper in relation to spaces used to define the rows and columns of the sensor array.

Alternating columns in correspond to x and y axis elements. The y axis sensor elements K are illustrated as black diamonds in and the x axis sensor elements L are illustrated as white diamonds in and . It should be noted that other shapes may be used for the sensor elements. In another embodiment the columns and row may include vertical and horizontal bars e.g. rectangular shaped bars however this design may include additional layers in the PCB to allow the vertical and horizontal bars to be positioned on the PCB so that they are not in contact with one another.

As illustrated in the top conductive layer includes the sensor elements for both the columns and the rows of the sensor array as well as the connections between the sensor elements of the columns of the sensor array. The bottom conductive layer includes the conductive paths that connect the sensor elements of the rows that reside in the top conductive layer . The conductive paths between the sensor elements of the rows use vias to connect to one another in the bottom conductive layer . Vias go from the top conductive layer through the dielectric layer to the bottom conductive layer . Coating layers and are applied to the surfaces opposite to the surfaces that are coupled to the dielectric layer on both the top and bottom conductive layers and .

It should be noted that the present embodiments should not be limited to connecting the sensor elements of the rows using vias to the bottom conductive layer but may include connecting the sensor elements of the columns using vias to the bottom conductive layer .

When pins are not being sensed only one pin is sensed at a time they are routed to ground. By surrounding the sensing device e.g. touch sensor pad with a ground plane the exterior elements have the same fringe capacitance to ground as the interior elements.

In one embodiment an IC including the processing device may be directly placed on the non sensor side of the PCB. This placement may be in a location other than the center. The processing device IC is not specified to have a specific set of dimensions for a touch sensor pad nor a certain number of pins. Alternatively the IC may be placed somewhere external to the PCB.

In another embodiment there is a fourth location of the detected presence of the conductive object determined by the processing device . The fourth location is compared to the third location using the rule based logic algorithm of and a second direction of motion opposite the first direction of motion of the conductive object is recognized based on the comparison of the fourth location to the third location. The fourth location may be the same location as the second location or may be different.

The processing device includes a capacitance sensor coupled to the plurality of sensor elements such as those on slider . The capacitance sensor is configured to measure a capacitance on each sensor element as described herein. The processing device is configured to send data to an external component such as host when the direction of motion of the conductive object is recognized.

In the first rule the sensing element in the sensing array does not reach a threshold level to detect the presence of a conductive object. The second rule and the third rule are explained with regard to .

The rule based algorithm for direction detection may be made more robust using additional rules in logic so that the system may work with lighter or heavier touch pressure sensor mismatch sensors not being consistent finger pressure not being consistent and or noisy sensors. For example g i may not have a sequence of all Left or all Right. Such an example sequence might look like 0 0 left left right left left 0 0. In this example the rule for direction detection may be determined by the balance of lefts and rights in a given period. Because there are 4 count Left direction and 1 count Right direction the direction of sequence using the count balance rule is Left. 

The minimum number of sensors used for application of the rule based algorithm described herein is equal to the number of sensors active with the heaviest touch plus the predetermined minimum number of lefts or rights used to make a decision.

Embodiments described herein include various operations. These operations may be performed by hardware components software firmware or a combination thereof. As used herein the term coupled to may mean coupled directly or indirectly through one or more intervening components. Any of the signals provided over various buses described herein may be time multiplexed with other signals and provided over one or more common buses. Additionally the interconnection between circuit components or blocks may be shown as buses or as single signal lines. Each of the buses may alternatively be one or more single signal lines and each of the single signal lines may alternatively be buses.

Certain embodiments may be implemented as a computer program product that may include instructions stored on a machine readable medium. These instructions may be used to program a general purpose or special purpose processor to perform the described operations. A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signal e.g. carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. or another type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Additionally some embodiments may be practiced in distributed computing environments where the machine readable medium is stored on and or executed by more than one computer system. In addition the information transferred between computer systems may either be pulled or pushed across the communication medium connecting the computer systems.

Although the operations of the method s herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operation may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

It will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to the described embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope thereof. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

