---

title: Method, system and mobile device employing enhanced fingerprint authentication
abstract: The described embodiments relate generally to methods and systems for fingerprint authentication for a computing device. In one embodiment, the method comprises: storing a default finger swipe scan direction; receiving a finger swipe scan; authenticating the received finger swipe scan; determining a received finger swipe scan direction; and configuring the default finger swipe scan direction. The computing device may comprise a mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08074880&OS=08074880&RS=08074880
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08074880
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20081201
---
The described embodiments relate to methods systems and mobile devices employing enhanced fingerprint authentication. In particular the described embodiments are directed towards fingerprint authentication systems and methods configured to anticipate a finger swipe direction.

For mobile devices and other computing devices authentication of a user for access to the mobile device or computing device is an important part of securing the device against unauthorized access to potentially sensitive data.

Some existing computer systems incorporate fingerprint or finger swipe sensors for authenticating the user s authority to access the computer system. With such systems the computational requirements for authenticating a user s identity may be significant. As a user may be required to reauthenticate himself herself multiple times any computational inefficiency may be compounded.

The existing computer operating systems described above typically only allow a user to swipe a finger in a single direction. While sensors can compensate for swiping in a second reverse direction computational performance is compromised as the fingerprint analysis generally involves attempting a match in a first direction and if necessary rotating the swiping image data by 180 degrees and attempting the match again.

The applicants have recognized that a fingerprint sensor may be used by both left handed and right handed people and in advance it is not known what the most common finger swipe direction will be. Furthermore it is anticipated that some of the embodiments disclosed herein may permit the fingerprint sensor to be in different orientations relative to the user over time. For example in some cases the fingerprint sensor may be incorporated in a device that is hanging around the user s neck e.g. hanging from a lanyard . As another example the device may be worn by the user e.g. removably attached to the user s clothing . In other cases the device may be kept in the user s pocket or bag. In other cases the device may be on the user s desk. Since the device may be portable and wearable in various embodiments various other orientations are possible. Furthermore the user s ability to swipe in a particular direction or with a particular hand may change over time for example if the user s dominant hand is engaged in a task such as writing or holding an object such as a communication device . Accordingly the applicants have recognized a need for predicting which direction was used in swiping a finger when attempting a match.

The described embodiments relate generally to methods systems and mobile devices employing fingerprint or finger swipe user authentication. Further embodiments relate generally to computing devices that employ fingerprint or finger swipe user authentication. Mobile devices are used herein as one example of a type of computing device.

In a broad aspect there is provided a method for finger swipe verification for a computing device. The computing device may comprise a mobile device. The method may include storing a default finger swipe scan direction in a memory receiving a finger swipe scan authenticating the received finger swipe scan determining a received finger swipe scan direction and configuring the default finger swipe scan direction. The received finger swipe scan direction may be stored. Authenticating the received finger swipe scan may involve comparing the received finger swipe scan to authenticated finger swipe data in a direction corresponding to the default finger swipe scan direction.

In some implementations configuring the default finger swipe scan direction involves changing the default finger swipe scan direction to correspond to the received finger swipe scan direction. The default finger swipe scan direction may be changed to correspond to the received finger swipe scan direction if a predetermined number of stored finger swipe scan directions differ from the default finger swipe scan direction. The default finger swipe scan direction may also be changed to correspond to the received finger swipe scan direction if a predetermined number of consecutive stored finger swipe scan directions differ from the default finger swipe scan direction. Furthermore the default finger swipe scan direction may be changed to correspond to the received finger swipe scan direction if a predetermined percentage of stored finger swipe scan directions differ from the default finger swipe scan direction. As well the default finger swipe scan direction may be changed to correspond to the received finger swipe scan direction if a predetermined number of consecutive stored finger swipe scan directions differ from the default finger swipe scan direction within a predetermined period of time.

Another broad aspect is directed towards a computing device having a processor a finger swipe sensor operatively coupled to the processor and a memory accessible to the processor. The computing device may comprise a mobile device. The memory stores a default finger swipe scan direction and also stores program code which when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the method of upon the finger swipe sensor receiving a finger swipe scan authenticating the received finger swipe scan determining a received finger swipe scan direction and configuring the default finger swipe scan direction. In some embodiments the memory further stores program code which when executed by the processor causes the processor to store the received finger swipe scan direction.

The authenticating of the received finger swipe scan may involve comparing the received finger swipe scan to authenticated finger swipe data in a direction corresponding to the default finger swipe scan direction. In some implementations configuring the default finger swipe scan direction may involve changing the default finger swipe scan direction to correspond to the received finger swipe scan direction. The default finger swipe scan direction may be changed to correspond to the received finger swipe scan direction if a predetermined number of stored finger swipe scan directions differ from the default finger swipe scan direction. Further the default finger swipe scan direction may be changed to correspond to the received finger swipe scan direction if a predetermined number of consecutive stored finger swipe scan directions differ from the default finger swipe scan direction. The default finger swipe scan direction may also be changed to correspond to the received finger swipe scan direction if a predetermined percentage of stored finger swipe scan directions differ from the default finger swipe scan direction. In addition the default finger swipe scan direction may be changed to correspond to the received finger swipe scan direction if a predetermined number of consecutive stored finger swipe scan directions differ from the default finger swipe scan direction within a predetermined period of time.

Computer readable storage storing program code is also provided which when executed by a processor causes the processor to perform a method of user authentication. The method may include receiving a finger swipe scan authenticating the received finger swipe scan determining a received finger swipe scan direction and configuring a default finger swipe scan direction.

These and other aspects and features of various embodiments will be described in greater detail below.

The mobile device and fingerprint authenticator are described in further detail below with reference to to contextualize some of the possible applications of the described embodiments. As used herein fingerprint and finger are meant to include fingers hands or other body parts which may be swiped across a scanner to provide biometric identification.

Memory card may be a smart card. The memory card may be specifically associated with one or more individuals and provide a means for authenticating such user s permission to access the mobile device and or other computer systems or devices operatively coupled to the network . Smart cards generally refer to personalized security devices defined by the ISO 7816 standard and its derivatives as published by the International Organization for Standardization.

A smart card may have a configuration similar to that of a credit card and may include a semiconductor device. The semiconductor device may include a memory that can be programmed with security information for example such as a private decryption key a private signing key biometrics information or an authentication certificate as well as any access restrictions for the authorized user s . The biometrics information may include the authenticated fingerprint swipe data of the authorized user s as will be discussed in further detail below.

The semiconductor device may include a decryption engine such as a processor and or dedicated logic circuitry for performing decryption and or authentication functions. The smart card may include a connector for powering the semiconductor device and performing serial communication with an external device such as card reader .

Smart cards generally have exposed contacts on one surface of the card for establishing electrical contact with corresponding contacts on the card reader thereby facilitating communication between the smart card and the card reader. In one embodiment memory card and card reader use electrical contact to establish communication therebetween. Although memory card may be physically received in card reader it is not essential that card reader physically receive or contact memory card in order to establish communication therebetween. For example in an alternative embodiment memory card may interface with card reader using radio frequency identification RFID or other contactless technology. In such an alternative embodiment the memory card can be sufficiently proximate to card reader to enable radio frequency communication therebetween.

Mobile device may be enabled to communicate with a wireless network . The wireless network may be implemented as a packet based cellular network that includes a number of base stations each providing wireless Radio Frequency RF coverage to a corresponding area or cell. For example the wireless network could conform to one or more of the following among other network standards Mobitex Radio Network DataTAC Global System for Mobile Communication GSM General Packet Radio System GPRS Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Evolution Data Optimized EVDO Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Integrated Digital Enhanced Network iDEN Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE or Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems UMTS etc.

In some embodiments instead of or in addition to a wireless wide area network the wireless network may include a wireless local area network such as for example a wireless local area network that conforms to one or more IEEE 802.11 standards such as 802.11b 802.11g and 802.11n. In at least some example embodiments the wireless network is connected through intermediate communications links not shown including for example links through the Internet to one or more enterprise networks not shown . Typically such enterprise networks are each associated with a set of respective mobile devices such that the mobile devices are each enabled to exchange electronic messages and other information with the enterprise networks with which the mobile devices are associated.

The mobile device may further comprise peripheral devices and or subsystems. Such peripheral devices and or subsystems may include for example a flash memory a random access memory RAM and or an auxiliary input output I O subsystem e.g. a scroll wheel trackball joystick directional pad touch screen or other navigational component . The peripheral devices and or subsystems may also include a serial port e.g. a Universal Serial Bus or USB port an input device a speaker and or a microphone . A mobile device short range communications subsystem and or another device subsystem designated generally by reference may also be provided. The short range communication subsystem may comprise for example an infrared transceiver wireless bus protocol system such as Bluetooth and or other means of local wireless communications. The input device may comprise for example a keyboard a keypad and or a touch screen. The touch screen may be used in combination with a stylus or one or more fingers for example.

The mobile device microprocessor operates under stored program control with code or firmware being stored in the flash memory or other type of non volatile memory device or devices . As depicted in the flash memory includes stored programs e.g. firmware including an operating system program or code module and other programs or software applications indicated generally by reference . The software applications can for example include a World Wide Web WWW browsing application and an e mail client application .

According to example embodiments the software applications of the mobile device further include a memory card driver that may be used in conjunction with the card reader which is described in more detail below in connection with . Notably the memory card driver may be provided not by the manufacturer of the mobile device but instead by a third party e.g. the manufacturer of the memory card . Furthermore an Application Programming Interface API may be built in to the memory card driver to allow the mobile device to communicate with the memory card through the card reader .

The software applications of the mobile device may further include a smart card reader SCR pairing and security module for coordinating a pairing process between the mobile device and the card reader . The roles of the memory card driver and the smart card reader pairing and security module will be described in greater detail below.

The operating system code code for specific device applications code for the WWW browsing application code for the e mail client application code for the memory card driver or code for the smart card reader pairing and security module may be temporarily loaded into a volatile storage medium such as the RAM during operation of the mobile device . Received communication signals and other data with information may also be stored in the RAM .

In some embodiments the mobile device may include in addition to the internal flash memory persistent memory carried on a SIM Subscriber Identity Module card or other removable device inserted into a memory interface and at least some of the flash memory may be allocated to the SIM card flash memory. A SIM card is one type of a conventional smart card used to identify a subscriber of mobile device and to personalize the mobile device among other things. Without such a subscriber card mobile device may not be fully operational for communication with network .

Alternatively by way of example only other types of smart cards which may be used may include an R UIM removable user identity module or a CSIM CDMA code division multiple access subscriber identity module or a USIM universal subscriber identity module card.

By inserting the subscriber card into memory interface a subscriber can access all subscribed services. Services may include without limitation web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Services MMS and peer to peer messages such as PIN to PIN which may also be referred to simply as PIN messages. As used in this context a PIN product identification number generally refers to a number that uniquely identifies the mobile device and a PIN message generally refers to a message addressed to one or more PIN numbers. More advanced services may include without limitation point of sale field service and sales force automation.

The stored program control i.e. the software applications for the mobile device microprocessor also includes a predetermined set of applications code components or software modules that control basic device operations for example data and voice communication applications which are normally installed on the mobile device as the software applications during the manufacturing process. Further applications may also be loaded i.e. downloaded onto the mobile device through the operation of networks described above the auxiliary I O subsystem the serial port or the mobile device short range communications subsystem . The downloaded code modules or components are then installed by the user or automatically in the RAM or the non volatile program memory e.g. the flash memory .

The serial port may comprise a USB type interface port for interfacing or synchronizing with another device such as a desktop or notebook computer not shown . The serial port may be used to set preferences through an external device or software application. The serial port may also be used to extend the capabilities of the mobile device by providing for information or software downloads including user interface information to the mobile device other than through a wireless communication network. In one embodiment the serial port may be used to communicate with card reader .

The mobile device short range communications subsystem provides an interface for communication between the mobile device and other devices including the card reader to be described in greater detail in connection with below. For example the mobile device short range communications subsystem may employ an infrared communication link or channel or may operate according to a wireless bus protocol such as Bluetooth or any other localized wireless means of communication.

The card reader may further comprise an output device e.g. a display module as illustrated in . The card reader may further comprise peripheral devices or subsystems such as a flash memory a random access memory RAM which in some embodiments includes a portion allocated to a data cache a serial port e.g. a USB port and or a smart card reader short range communications subsystem e.g. an infrared transceiver wireless bus protocol system using a protocol such as a Bluetooth . The reader may also include a storage component interface e.g. for a memory card or any other data storage device a pairing activation input device e.g. a push button and a fingerprint or finger swipe sensor . Such a fingerprint sensor may comprise any kind of suitably secure handprint and or fingerprint scanner.

Referring briefly to illustrated therein is a portion of an exemplary embodiment of fingerprint or finger swipe sensor such as sensor illustrated in having a swiping surface such as surface illustrated in across which a finger or other body part may be slid or swiped for scanning purposes. The swiping surface may be embedded within a housing such as housing illustrated in which in one embodiment may comprise part of the housing of the card reader or alternatively may comprise part of the housing of the mobile device . As the finger is swiped across the swiping surface the sensor scans or detects biometric information which is used for authentication purposes. The scanner surface may have a generally longitudinal configuration facilitating swiping of a finger generally in a first direction indicated generally by arrow or in a second direction indicated generally by arrow opposite to the first direction .

In some configurations the fingerprint sensor may capture a static or substantially static image or imprint of a finger from one of two substantially opposing orientations in place of a swiping scan or series of images.

In alternate embodiments the fingerprint sensor may comprise part of a fingerprint authentication device remote from or in place of the card reader . Such a fingerprint authentication device may be in communication with mobile device over a wired or wireless interface and may have a wireless transceiver for communicating with mobile device . Alternatively such a fingerprint authentication device may be in communication with mobile device via a wired connection such as a universal serial bus USB cable. In yet a further alternate configuration the fingerprint sensor may comprise part of and be integrated with the mobile device .

The smart card reader microprocessor operates under stored program control with code or firmware being stored in the flash memory or other type of non volatile memory device or devices . As depicted in the stored programs e.g. firmware include an operating system program or code module and other programs or software applications indicated generally by reference . The operating system of the card reader further includes a fingerprint matching software component and a memory card reader driver component .

The fingerprint matching software component is used to analyze or compare candidate fingerprints and or finger swipes scanned by the fingerprint input device or fingerprint authentication device in reference to stored fingerprint and or finger swipe data . In alternate embodiments the fingerprint matching software component may be stored in memory storage and or otherwise contained and run for example on the mobile device . As will be discussed in greater detail below the fingerprint matching software component may also comprise a swipe direction component . The swipe direction component manages a stored default swipe direction used to anticipate the swipe direction in which the user will next likely swipe for authentication.

The memory card reader driver component is responsible for coordinating communications between the card reader and a memory card and or the memory card driver of the mobile device via wired or wireless communication link .

The operating system code code for specific device applications code for the fingerprint matching software component code for the memory card reader driver component or code components thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile storage medium such as the RAM . Received communication signals and other data may also be stored in the RAM . Additionally the storage component interface receives the removable memory card providing additional storage space for the card reader .

In one embodiment the memory card stores the fingerprint authentication data default swipe direction and swipe direction pattern data discussed in greater detail below although in other embodiments such data may be stored elsewhere for example without limitation on the card reader or on the mobile device and has a card driver and controller responsible for coordinating communications between the memory card and the memory card reader driver component of the smart card reader . While operation of the card reader is described in a context wherein the memory card comprises a smart card the card reader may be designed to operate with any suitable form of memory device.

The stored program control i.e. software applications for the smart card reader microprocessor may include a predetermined set of applications code components or software modules that control basic device operations for example management and security related control of the data of the card reader and may be installed on the card reader as a component of the software applications during the manufacturing process. Further applications may also be loaded i.e. downloaded onto the card reader through the operation of the serial port the smart card reader short range communications subsystem or from the memory card . The downloaded code module or components are then installed by the user or automatically in the RAM or non volatile program memory e.g. the flash memory .

While the fingerprint matching software component and the memory card reader driver component are shown to be an integrated portion of the operating system for security purposes e.g. because individuals should not be permitted to tamper with the fingerprint matching software component or the memory card reader driver component the fingerprint matching software component and or the memory card reader driver component could be installed as one of the software applications so long as suitable security related precautions are taken to ensure that the fingerprint matching software component and the memory card reader driver component cannot be modified or tampered with by unauthorized users.

The serial port may be a USB type interface port for interfacing or synchronizing with another device such as a desktop computer not shown or the mobile device . The serial port is used to set preferences through an external device or software application or exchange data with a device such as the mobile device which data is stored on the memory card that is plugged into the storage component interface of the card reader . The serial port is also used to extend the capabilities of the card reader by providing for downloads to the card reader of information or software including user interface information.

The short range communications subsystem provides an interface for communication between the mobile device and the card reader . In one embodiment the short range communications subsystem employs an infrared communication link or channel. In another embodiment the short range communications subsystem operates according to a wireless RF bus protocol such as Bluetooth . However the short range communications subsystem may operate according to any suitable local wired or wireless communication protocol so long as the short range communications subsystem of the mobile device can operate using the same protocol thereby facilitating wireless communication between the mobile device and the card reader . Any communications mechanism and or protocol may be implemented for the short range communications subsystems so long as the mobile device and the card reader can communicate with each other when within physical proximity.

Referring now to an exemplary method of finger swipe verification is shown. Method may begin with a fingerprint initialization in step during which the user s fingerprint authentication data is input and stored. This step may involve the fingerprint matching software component in communication with the mobile device to prompt the user to swipe his her finger across the fingerprint scanner to generate the fingerprint authentication data . In some embodiments the user may be permitted by the fingerprint matching software component to authenticate more than one fingerprint for example the fingerprint from the user s left index finger and right index finger and or any other finger . A text or other visual prompt to commence a finger swipe may be presented to the user on the display of the mobile device .

The user may be prompted to swipe his her finger across the scanner a second time or more times to verify the consistency of the fingerprint authentication data . The matching software component may then store the authentication data in memory such as on memory card . In some embodiments scans from multiple fingers may be input and stored in the authentication data for example a left hand index finger swipe and a right hand index finger swipe .

In step a default swipe direction may be determined and stored in memory such as on memory card . The default swipe direction may be input via an input device such as a keyboard on the mobile device in response to being prompted by the fingerprint matching software component in communication with the mobile device . For example the display may prompt the user with Swipe to the Left or to the Right L R to which the user may input either an L or R in response. Other swipe direction configurations for example Toward or Away and corresponding prompt messages may be used in different embodiments. Data corresponding to the indicated swipe direction may then be stored as the default swipe direction . Alternatively the matching software component may determine which direction the user swiped his her finger during the initialization step and data corresponding to such direction may be stored as the default swipe direction . As yet a further alternative the default swipe direction may be predetermined to be a preferred swipe direction such as for example swiping from the outside to the inside using a finger on the left hand when the reader is worn on a lanyard around the user s neck card facing out .

In time at step a security application which may reside on the mobile device for example may determine that user fingerprint authentication is required for example where the mobile device is requested by a user to be accessed or where the user is required to be authenticated to access sensitive information stored on mobile device .

Once it is determined that fingerprint authentication is required at step for example in order to access mobile device or data stored therein the user s finger swipe data is acquired or input via the fingerprint scanner at step . As with the fingerprint initialization in step the user may be prompted by the fingerprint matching software component in communication with the mobile device to swipe his her finger across the fingerprint scanner to generate the finger swipe data . A text or other visual prompt to commence a finger swipe may be presented on the display of the mobile device .

In analyzing the finger swipe data the fingerprint matching software component may authenticate the received finger swipe scan data commencing at step and determine the finger swipe direction of the finger swipe data at step .

The fingerprint matching software component may attempt to match or otherwise compare the finger swipe data to the fingerprint authentication data in a first direction corresponding to the default swipe direction at step . In some embodiments in which fingerprint authentication data has been stored corresponding to more than one finger the finger swipe data may be compared to the fingerprint authentication data for each finger in the first direction. If the fingerprint data matches the user is authenticated at step and an appropriate authentication message may be provided on display subsystem and the finger swipe direction of the finger swipe data is determined to correspond to the default swipe direction at step .

If a match is not found the finger swipe data is rotated by 180 degrees and the fingerprint matching software component may attempt to match the finger swipe data to the fingerprint authentication data effectively in a second direction opposite to the first direction and to the default swipe direction at step . Again in some embodiments in which fingerprint authentication data has been stored corresponding to more than one finger the rotated finger swipe data may be compared to the fingerprint authentication data for each finger effectively in a second direction opposite to the first direction and to the default swipe direction . If the rotated finger swipe data matches the authentication data the user is authenticated at step and the finger swipe direction of the finger swipe data is determined to correspond to the second direction opposite to the default swipe direction at step .

If no match is made between the fingerprint data then the user is not authenticated and a non authentication message may be provided on display subsystem at step . If the user is authenticated at step then the finger swipe direction determined at step is added to and stored with the swipe direction pattern data at step .

In step the default swipe direction may then be configured based on the swipe direction pattern data. In one embodiment if there are multiple successive failures for example 3 successive failures to predict the finger swipe direction determined at step in other words in which the finger swipe direction determined at step is opposite to the default swipe direction the default swipe direction may be made to match the finger swipe direction determined at step which would result in a reversing of the default swipe direction and saved. Otherwise the default swipe direction may remain unchanged.

Other strategies for configuring or adjusting the default swipe direction may be implemented in addition to or in place of the configuration strategy discussed above. Such strategies may be implemented for predicting a user s finger swipe direction. For example in an alternative embodiment the default swipe direction may be made to match the finger swipe direction determined at step if greater than a certain ratio or percentage of the most recent predictions of the finger swipe direction are failures for example 60 or 4 times out of 6 . In yet an alternative embodiment the default swipe direction may be made to match the finger swipe direction determined at step if multiple successive failures or alternatively a percentage of the most recent predictions of the finger swipe direction are failures within a short period of time. As yet a further option the swipe direction component may be programmed to track the swipe direction pattern data as a function of time to determine for example if swipe direction patterns can be found which correspond to for example time of day. It may be for example that a user swipes in a certain direction first thing in the morning but in an opposite direction thereafter.

As well it should also be understood that in certain embodiments the various different configuration strategies discussed above may be combined or adjusted manually or automatically. As a result the failure threshold for example the 3 successive failures discussed in relation to step may be adjusted for example to 2 successive failures .

While the above description describes the example embodiments in some detail it will be appreciated that some features and or functions of the described embodiments are susceptible to modification without departing from the spirit and principles of operation of the described embodiments. Accordingly what has been described above is intended to be illustrative of the disclosure and non limiting.

As used herein the wording and or is intended to represent an inclusive or. That is X and or Y is intended to mean X or Y or both. Moreover X Y and or Z is intended to mean X or Y or Z or any combination thereof.

