---

title: Analysis, inference, and visualization of social networks
abstract: A method and system for automated generation of social networks. A graphical user interface receives a user query for an entity of interest, and outputs a graphical network showing entities and associations related to the entity of interest. A search engine interface transmits the query to a search engine, and receives references to documents. A named entity extractor downloads a selection of the documents, and generates a list of named entities referenced in the downloaded documents. A network inference module receives each list of named entities, and generates associations between the named entities in each list. An entity matcher operates on the associations to consolidate them in instances wherein differently named entities are determined to be the same named entity, and provides a consolidated list of named entities and associations to the user interface for display as a graphical network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08862622&OS=08862622&RS=08862622
owner: Sprylogics International Corp.
number: 08862622
owner_city: Concord, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20081210
---
This patent application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 007 090 filed Dec. 10 2007 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The field of the present invention is information analysis and specifically networks of entities and associations between the entities.

Very often people use the Internet to find out information about an entity such as a person a place a company or an event. A search for the information usually begins with a query request to a search engine which results in a plurality of web documents. The search widens as web documents link to other web documents and eventually a complex web of inter related documents is discovered.

Thus a search for an entity of interest A first leads to a plurality of web documents which relate A to other entities B C D etc. These other entities in turn lead to another plurality of web documents. Eventually a network of entities and associations between the entities emerges. Such a network is referred to generically as a social network .

Generation of social networks often requires much manual work in order to piece together an accurate and complete network. It is of great advantage to automate the derivation of social networks. However the success of manual derivation of social networks is based upon human inference and intuition and many challenges arise when trying to automate the human processes.

One such challenge is discrimination between entities in different documents that have the same name. E.g. entities named John Doe may appear in two documents and correspond to different people. Conversely entities with different but similar names in two different documents may correspond to the same entity. E.g. entities named John Q. Adams and John Quincy Adams may correspond to the same person. Using inference and intuition humans are able to perform the necessary discrimination. However automated discrimination is a difficult task.

Aspects of the present invention provide a method and system for automated generation of social networks which has excellent discrimination between entities in different digitally encoded documents. The present invention uses social contexts to discriminate between entities i.e. entities that have significantly overlapping social contexts are presumed to correspond to the same entity.

The present invention relates to a computer implemented system for inferring and analyzing social networks. A graphical user interface receives a user query for an entity of interest and outputs in response to the query a graphical network showing entities and associations related to the entity of interest. A search engine interface coupled to the graphical user interface transmits over a network the query to a search engine and receives over the network from the search engine references to digitally encoded documents in response to the query. A named entity extractor receives the document references and downloads a selection of the digitally encoded documents and generates a digitally encoded list of named entities referenced in the downloaded documents. A network inference module receives each list of named entities and generates digitally encoded associations between the named entities in each list. An entity matcher operates on the associations to consolidate them in instances wherein differently named entities are determined to be the same named entity and provides a resulting consolidated digitally encoded list of named entities and associations to the graphical user interface for display as a graphical network.

The social network analyzer of the present invention also computes risk factors for an entity of interest based on the network of entities related to the entity of interest and based on the associations between these entities. The risk factor for an entity of interest is derived by summing contributions from individual paths comprising one or more associations that traverse the graph from the entity of interest to each of the entities related thereto. The risk factor further depends on the number of associations in the individual path the nature of the associations and intrinsic risks related to entities in the path.

The present invention also provides a method for analyzing similarly named entities that includes accessing two digitally encoded documents that each include references to a similarly named entity. For each of the two documents the social contexts of the similarly named entity are derived based on information in the documents. The two social contexts are compared for significant overlap and whether or not the similarly named entities refer to the same entity is determined based on the results of the comparing.

Definitions. As used in this description and the accompanying claims the following terms shall have the meanings indicated unless the context otherwise requires 

A social network refers to a social structure of entities that are associated by one or more types of relationships.

An entity is something that has a distinct separate existence but does not have to be a material object. In the context of the invention entities may be but are not limited to such things as people companies places events dates phone numbers domain names and ideas.

An association is a relationship between two entities such as a family relationship a business partnership ownership a legal relationship or a financial relationship. Two entities may have more than one association.

The social context of an entity refers to the sum of the associations in the entity s social network.

A graphical network is a graphical display on a display device showing the social network for an entity of interest that has been inferred from the results of analyzing digitally encoded documents returned from one or more search engines in response to a query of the entity of interest.

A risk factor is a normalized likelihood that a negative event will occur to an entity over a period of approximately two years. The types of risk of negative events include but are not limited to bankruptcy risk criminal risk and regulatory risk for publicly traded companies which is a measure of the risk that the entity will be involved either now or in the future in fraudulent activity in the regulated financial markets.

Aspects of the present invention relate to a computer implemented social network analyzer that receives as input a query from a user for information about an entity of interest and generates as output to a display device a graphical network of entities related to the entity of interest and associations between these entities. shows an example of a graphical network generated in response to a query on the entity of interest Boaz Manor in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

The social network analyzer generates its output by analyzing digitally encoded documents related to the entity of interest that are returned by one or more search engines. For example shows the first several documents that were returned by the Google search engine in response to a query on the entity of interest Boaz Manor. 

As shown in boaz manor has been entered as the entity of interest into search box . The graphical network generated and displayed in display area shows entities such as entities that are related to Boaz Manor and the associations between them. Entities that are identified by the social network analyzer as referring directly to the entity of interest are displayed as bolded icons. As shown entities and are identified as relating directly to Boaz Manor. Other entities such as entity that are identified as belonging to the entity of interest s social network are displayed as non bolded icons.

Another embodiment of a graphical network is shown in . In this embodiment associations are labeled with the nature of the association. For example the association between entity Boaz Manor and entity Michael Mendelson is sanctioned with. The nature of the association is determined from analyzing the retrieved web documents as described below.

Preferences menu allows the user to select which search engine will be queried to supply the digitally encoded web documents that the social network analyzer will analyze in determining the social network of the entity of interest. In the embodiment illustrated the search engines Yahoo MSN Alexa and Technorati may be selected. As indicated in the figure only Yahoo and MSN have been selected. In addition Preferences menu allows the user to select which entities in the entity of interest s social network will be displayed in the graphical network. In the embodiment illustrated the different types of entities that may be selected for display in the graphical network include people companies and organizations phone numbers email addresses addresses Internet domains dates geography and all others. For example in entity refers to a person Michael Mendelson entity refers to an Internet domain GlobeAdvisor.com and entity refers to a company KBL Capital Partners Inc.

Advanced menu allows the user to control which digitally encoded web documents returned by the selected search engines in preferences menu will be analyzed to determine the social network displayed in graphical network . The value entered into the Star At box determines where in the list of documents returned by each selected search engine the social network analysis will begin. For example if a value of 5 is entered into the Star At box the first four documents returned by each search engine will be ignored by the social network analyzer for the social network analysis. The value entered into the How Many box determines how many documents beginning with the Start At document will be analyzed by the social network analyzer to determine the social network. For example if a value of 5 is entered into the Star At box and a value of 10 is entered into the How Many box the 5th through the 14th document returned by each selected search engine will be analyzed to determine the social network displayed in graphical network .

Advanced menu also allows the user to select terms to exclude from the search engine results. Many web search engines allow a user to specify search terms that a web document must include and also to specify terms that a web document should not include. By entering terms into the Terms box of Advanced menu the social network analyzer will generate appropriate search queries for the search engines selected in Preferences menu indicating that web documents containing the entered terms should not be returned in the search engine results.

Clicking on a plus sign will display an expanded menu of entities that are in the social network of entity as determined by the social network analyzer from analysis of the web documents returned from the original Boaz Manor search engine results. Clicking on one of these entities will generate a new query to the social network analyzer in which the entity of interest is the chosen entity from entities and the original entity of interest. For example clicking on Jonathan Chevreau in entity list will generate a query to the social network analyzer for the entity of interest Jonathan Chevreau and Boaz Manor .

Clicking on the j symbol to the left of an entity will display a graphical network showing the social network of the entity as determined by the social network analyzer from analysis of the web documents returned from the original Boaz Manor search engine results.

With reference to all of the Flash layouts selectable by drop down menu allow for user control of certain display parameters. Two display parameters that are available on each Flash layout are Scaling and Degrees of Separation . Scaling controls the text and icon size that is displayed in graphical network in Flash screen display area .

Degrees of Separation controls the path lengths that are displayed in graphical network . Path length is a measure of the number of intervening entities and associations between to two entities. For example an entity connected by one association to another entity has a path length of one. An entity that is connected to another entity by an intervening entity and two associations has a path length of two. In a social network two entities may be connected by several different paths of varying path lengths. In entity is connected to entity directly over a path having length 1. Entities and are connected over a path of length 2 that has entity as an intervening entity. Several other paths of longer path lengths also connect entities and .

In a preferred embodiment the programming applets that form the basis of the Flash layouts of may be obtained for example from a publicly available library provided by Google Inc.

The main function of social network analyzer is to parse and analyze the plurality of documents received from search engine and to generate a graphical network for the entity of interest such as the graphical network shown in based on the analysis. To this end social network analyzer includes a named entity extractor which receives as input a digitally encoded document and which generates as output a digitally encoded list of entities extracted from the document. APPENDIX A includes an example of a printout of such a document retrieved from the Ontario Securities Commission. Named entity extractor parses a digitally encoded counterpart of this document and based on language ontology and language processing generates the XML document provided in APPENDIX B which identifies the named entities in the document. Social network analyzer further includes a network inference module which accepts a digitally encoded counterpart of the XML document from named entity extractor that lists the named entities in the web document infers associations between those entities and further updates the XML document with the associations.

In an embodiment of the invention named entity extractor in combination with network inference module operates as illustrated in the flowchart of . Each retrieved web document is converted to marked up text . Documents that are not in HTML format are converted to HTML. Then the HTML documents are processed by stripping most of the HTML markup tags with the exception of a few tags that indicate formatting that is significant for the processing. Specifically the tags are identified and begin paragraph and end paragraph tags are inserted. In addition escaped characters e.g. amp are converted to unescaped versions in text and the header tags e.g. are marked up so they can be used for identifying significant portions of the document that are likely related. The text is then broken up into paragraphs sentences and tokens .

Based on text based rules to identify proper names typically by the first letter being in upper case i.e. proper cased and regular expressions each paragraph is analyzed to identify tokens that are proper cased or that meet a regular expression rule . The identified tokens are then classified into entity types based on the rules e.g. first name last name phone number etc. .

The rules allow named entity extractor to recognize various types of entities through regular expression matching dictionary lookup or a combination of the two. For example email addresses domain names and telephone numbers are examples of entities that are recognized through regular expression matching. A proper name may be recognized through regular expression matching since the first letter of a proper name is usually capitalized and often the name is preceded by an honorific such as Mr. Ms. or Dr. A geographical entity such as a continent country state or city is recognized based on comparison to dictionaries. A company entity might be recognized by a combination of regular expression matching and dictionary lookup. For example the entity might first be recognized by regular expression matching as a name entity since the first letter of the company name is capitalized. A further dictionary lookup might determine that the named entity is in fact a known company name. The rules include blacklisted words to ignore such as words that are capitalized but are not part of the named entity e.g. Sincerely Dear However Hence . . . and also whitelisted words such as uncapitalized words that are likely part of a named entity e.g. of as in United States of America . A set of noise words to ignore can also be identified such as insignificant words due to their overly common usage e.g. a the is are . Although a disclosed embodiment uses regular expression matching and dictionary lookup techniques to recognize entities any suitable technique or combinations of techniques that can extract and identify entities in a source document may be used. For example natural language processing techniques that analyze sentences and extract syntactic phrasal constituent elements might be used to extract entities.

After entities have been identified and classified for a paragraph network inference module infers associations between the entities in a paragraph from analysis of text location within the paragraph and lexical analysis of paragraph text based on the rules . Proceeding through the paragraph sentence by sentence named entities in a sentence and the association between them is identified. Each pair of entities and the association between them is then stored on a document basis .

Associations are identified from text based on the rules . An association can include for example profession e.g. accountant CFO CEO business association as part of a company e.g. hired fired partner business association between entities e.g. bribed sponsored same address as legal counsel to personal between persons e.g. friend nanny brother in law aunt family e.g. son wife grandparent inter business association between companies e.g. merged with subsidiary controlled by .

In the simplest case a sentence has two named entities and an association identifier between them. A more complicated case occurs when a sentence has one or more entities with an association identifier but the subject or object of the sentence is not an explicit entity. For example the subject or object might be a back reference such as he she they or a partial reference to an entity name such as just a first or last name. In the case of a back reference he she they the back reference is replaced with either the paragraph level subject or with the document level subject. The document level subject is defined as the first named entity of the document either a person or a company. The paragraph level subject which has precedence over the document level subject is determined by sentences that have a single named entity.

In the case of just a first or last name the complete name is substituted for the first or last name back reference. If two entities have a family association and the second subject does not have a last name then the second subject will take on the last name of the first subject. This will handle cases such as George Bush and his wife Barbara. 

After all sentences in a paragraph have been analyzed to determine entities and associations the process is repeated for the next paragraph in the document until all paragraphs have been analyzed .

To properly consolidate all of the entity and association information derived from all of the retrieved web documents social network analyzer includes an entity matcher that performs a disambiguation process that groups named entities and their associations extracted from the web documents that in fact refer to the same named entity. In an embodiment of the invention the disambiguation process of entity matcher operates as illustrated in the flowchart of . Entity matcher also derives social networks based on the entities and their associations. In an embodiment of the invention the derive social networks process of entity matcher operates as illustrated in the flowchart of .

With regards to the disambiguation process illustrated in after each digitally encoded web document has been processed by named entity extractor to identify entities and their associations this information is added to a graph structure on a document basis . In the graph structure the vertices are defined as the entities and the edges are defined as the associations between the entities. Entity matcher then standardizes the entity names . The purpose of the standardization is to eliminate variations that are not significant when comparing entities for example Corp. and Corporation. The standardization processes includes the following steps remove company identifiers e.g. Corp Inc. remove personal identifiers e.g. Mr. Mrs. standardize addresses order of number street name street type etc. standardize case to proper case add common nicknames. After the entity names have been standardized the entity names are sorted alphabetically .

In the next several steps different entries for the same entity are combined. After sorting each entity name is compared to the previous entity name to determine if it is a duplicate . If the entity name is a duplicate the social environments of the two entities are compared to determine if the two entities are in fact the same . The social environments are compared by determining if both entities share one or more associations to another entity. For example if both entities are associated with the same email address or the same telephone number it is concluded that thee two entities are in fact the same entity. A threshold may be set on how many matches in the social environment are required before the entities are considered to be the same entity. Limits on path length may also be established when comparing social environments. Also the nature of associations may be considered such that only certain associations are taken into account. In a preferred embodiment having one match in addition to the name match within two degrees of separation is sufficient to establish that the entities are the same.

If it is determined that the duplicate entity names are in fact the same entity all of the associations to the duplicate second entity name are redirected to the first entity and the duplicate second entity is removed from the graph structure . The next entity name is then similarly processed until all duplicate entity names have been removed. The next document is then added to the graph structure and the disambiguation process is repeated until all documents have been processed.

As an example of the disambiguation process of entity matcher and shows a plurality of web documents obtained from a query using the Google search engine for the entity of interest John Smith . Entity matcher determines whether the different documents returned in the search results refer to the same person named John Smith.

By analyzing and comparing the social contexts entity matcher determines for example that the first reference in referring to John Smith of Jamestown and the second reference in referring to John Smith a UK politician are referring to different entities both named John Smith. The social context of John Smith in the first reference indicates that 

By comparing the above two social contexts entity matcher determines that there is a significant discrepancy between the two. Neither the DATES nor the NATIONALITY nor the PROFESSION match. Proceeding to the third reference to John Smith in the document referenced is examined and is found to include the following text in its first three paragraphs 

By comparing this third social context with the previous two contexts entity matcher determines that there are significant overlaps in information between the first and the third social contexts. They have a common LOCATION Jamestown they have common DATES 1580 and they have a common TITLE Captain. Entity matcher thus infers that the John Smith referred to in the first reference and the John Smith referred to in the third reference are the same person.

Social contexts of entities as used by entity matcher may be known in advance. For example they may have been previously inferred and recorded in a database. Alternatively entity matcher may infer social contexts on the fly based on information included in a document. In all cases entity matcher infers that an entity referred to in Document A is the same entity referred to in Document B if significant portions of the social context of the entity in Document A match corresponding portions of the social context of the entity in Document B.

After the disambiguation process of entity matcher has identified and eliminated duplicate entity names entity matcher derives the various social networks represented by the associations between the entities. Although the web documents were retrieved in response to a search query on an entity of interest there may be many different social networks represented by the entities and associations identified in the retrieved documents.

As shown in all cluster index values for all entities are first initialized to zero . The next association is then read from the graph structure until all associations have been processed . For each association the source and destination entities are then retrieved . If the process has just started and this is the first association read the entity cluster index values for the source and destination entities are set to 1. The index counter is then incremented by 1 from its initial value of 1. For this special case process control effectively flows through all the next steps and process control returns to step .

If the association is not the first association the entity cluster index values are analyzed. If one of the entity cluster index values is non zero and the other value is zero this indicates that the entity with the non zero value has already been assigned to a cluster. Therefore the entity with the zero cluster index value is assigned to the same cluster by setting the zero cluster index value to the non zero value.

If both entity cluster index values are zero and this is not the first association this indicates that neither entity has yet been assigned to a cluster. In this case the entity cluster index values for both entities are assigned the current value of the index counter and the index counter is incremented by 1. In this way a new social network is identified and given a new cluster index value.

If both source entity cluster index value and the destination entity index value are non zero this indicates that both entities have been assigned to different social networks. However because the entities are connected by an association these entities are in fact in the same social network. Therefore all the entities associated with the source entity and all the entities associated with the destination entity should have the same entity cluster value. In a preferred embodiment of the invention the entity cluster value of all entities associated with the destination entity is set to the entity cluster value of the source entity.

In addition to generating a graphical network for an entity of interest social network analyzer also computes one or more risk factors for the entity of interest. Social network analyzer analyzes a variety of types of risks including regulatory risk for publicly traded companies bankruptcy risk and criminal risk. To this end social network analyzer includes a risk evaluator which derives a risk factor for an entity of interest.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention risk evaluator calculates a risk factor for an entity based on the entity s social network. Risk evaluator computes a cumulative risk for an entity of interest as a weighted sum of individual entity risks within the social network of the entity of interest. Several factors affect the cumulative risk of an entity. The longer the path length between two entities within a social network the less impact the risk of one of the entities has upon the risk of the other. Path length is measured by the number of intervening entities and associations between two entities. For example an entity connected by one association to another entity has a path length of one. An entity that is connected to another by an intervening entity has a path length of two. In a social network two entities may be connected by several different paths having the same or different path lengths. In addition different associations between entities have different weighting factors and will affect cumulative risk in different ways. For example if the association between two entities is that of a close relative this association would have a higher weighting factor than if the association was that of casual acquaintance. Entities are also assigned an intrinsic risk based on known factors including inter alia regulatory history criminal history and ongoing litigation. Intrinsic risk can be determined for example by information in the web documents that are used to determine the social network of an entity.

In mathematical terms the cumulative risk factor R E for an entity of interest E is given by the equation 

The social network of E corresponds to a graph whose vertices are entities and whose edges are associations. In this respect Equation 1 corresponds to the following algorithm 

For example referring back to the social network for Boaz Manor in the entities marked with a dark or red border such as Michael Mendelson and Bruce Schriver have high intrinsic risks because of previous regulatory or criminal history. The entities marked with a lighter or green border such as Portus and others 13JUN06 have medium intrinsic risks because of ongoing litigation. The unmarked entities such as Bruce P. Schriver Inc. have no risk associated with them.

The parameters of Equation 1 including the level or path length limit N the weights assigned to the various types of associations and the depth factors d k are determined by fitting the parameters to optimally match risks known from historical data.

At step a search engine is queried for documents related to the entity of interest. At step a plurality of documents are received from the search engine in response to the query from step . At step each document received from the search engine is parsed and analyzed by extracting named entities from the document at step and by charting associations between the extracted named entities at step . At step a determination is made whether there are more documents to process. If so the method loops back to step .

Otherwise if all documents have been processed the method advances to step where commonly named or similarly named entities extracted from different documents are matched to determine whether they are the same entity. At step the results of the matching are combined into a social network of entities related to the entity of interest and associations between these entities.

At step one or more risk factors for the entity of interest are computed based on the social network derived at step . A formula for such computation is given by Equation 1 hereinabove.

At step the user is provided with output in the form of a graph of the social network derived at step and the one or more risk factors computed at step .

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments. It will be evident however that various modifications and changes may be made to the specific exemplary embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in as illustrative rather than restrictive.

It should be noted that devices may use communication protocols and messages e.g. messages created transmitted received stored and or processed by the device and such messages may be conveyed by a communication network or medium. Unless the context otherwise requires the present invention should not be construed as being limited to any particular communication message type communication message format or communication protocol. Thus a communication message generally may include without limitation a frame packet datagram user datagram cell or other type of communication message.

It should also be noted that logic flows may be described herein to demonstrate various aspects of the invention and should not be construed to limit the present invention to any particular logic flow or logic implementation. The described logic may be partitioned into different logic blocks e.g. programs modules functions or subroutines without changing the overall results or otherwise departing from the true scope of the invention. Often times logic elements may be added modified omitted performed in a different order or implemented using different logic constructs e.g. logic gates looping primitives conditional logic and other logic constructs without changing the overall results or otherwise departing from the true scope of the invention.

The present invention may be embodied in many different forms including but in no way limited to computer program logic for use with a processor e.g. a microprocessor microcontroller digital signal processor or general purpose computer programmable logic for use with a programmable logic device e.g. a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or other PLD discrete components integrated circuitry e.g. an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or any other means including any combination thereof. In a typical embodiment of the present invention predominantly all of the described logic is implemented as a set of computer program instructions that is converted into a computer executable form stored as such in a computer readable medium and executed by a microprocessor under the control of an operating system.

Computer program logic implementing all or part of the functionality previously described herein may be embodied in various forms including but in no way limited to a source code form a computer executable form and various intermediate forms e.g. forms generated by an assembler compiler linker or locator . Source code may include a series of computer program instructions implemented in any of various programming languages e.g. an object code an assembly language or a high level language such as Fortran C C JAVA or HTML for use with various operating systems or operating environments. The source code may define and use various data structures and communication messages. The source code may be in a computer executable form e.g. via an interpreter or the source code may be converted e.g. via a translator assembler or compiler into a computer executable form.

The computer program may be fixed in any form e.g. source code form computer executable form or an intermediate form either permanently or transitorily in a tangible storage medium such as a semiconductor memory device e.g. a RAM ROM PROM EEPROM or Flash Programmable RAM a magnetic memory device e.g. a diskette or fixed disk an optical memory device e.g. a CD ROM a PC card e.g. PCMCIA card or other memory device. The computer program may be fixed in any form in a signal that is transmittable to a computer using any of various communication technologies including but in no way limited to analog technologies digital technologies optical technologies wireless technologies e.g. Bluetooth networking technologies and internetworking technologies. The computer program may be distributed in any form as a removable storage medium with accompanying printed or electronic documentation e.g. shrink wrapped software preloaded with a computer system e.g. on system ROM or fixed disk or distributed from a server or electronic bulletin board over the communication system e.g. the Internet or World Wide Web .

Hardware logic including programmable logic for use with a programmable logic device implementing all or part of the functionality previously described herein may be designed using traditional manual methods or may be designed captured simulated or documented electronically using various tools such as Computer Aided Design CAD a hardware description language e.g. VHDL or AHDL or a PLD programming language e.g. PALASM ABEL or CUPL .

Programmable logic may be fixed either permanently or transitorily in a tangible storage medium such as a semiconductor memory device e.g. a RAM ROM PROM EEPROM or Flash Programmable RAM a magnetic memory device e.g. a diskette or fixed disk an optical memory device e.g. a CD ROM or other memory device. The programmable logic may be fixed in a signal that is transmittable to a computer using any of various communication technologies including but in no way limited to analog technologies digital technologies optical technologies wireless technologies e.g. Bluetooth networking technologies and internetworking technologies. The programmable logic may be distributed as a removable storage medium with accompanying printed or electronic documentation e.g. shrink wrapped software preloaded with a computer system e.g. on system ROM or fixed disk or distributed from a server or electronic bulletin board over the communication system e.g. the Internet or World Wide Web .

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the true scope of the invention. Any references to the invention are intended to refer to exemplary embodiments of the invention and should not be construed to refer to all embodiments of the invention unless the context otherwise requires. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive.

