---

title: Method and apparatus for multiple signal identification and finding the basis functions of the received signal
abstract: A method is disclosed to detect a broad class of signals in Gaussian noise using higher order statistics. The method detects a number of different signal types. The signals may be in the base-band or the pass-band, single-carrier or multi-carrier, frequency hopping or non-hopping, broad-pulse or narrow-pulse etc. In a typical setting this method provides an error rate of 3% at a signal to noise ratio of 0 dB. This method gives the time frequency detection ratio which may be used to determine if the detected signal falls in Class Single-Carrier of Class Multi-Carrier. Additionally, this method may be used for a number of different applications such as multiple signal identification, finding the basis functions of the received signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08170152&OS=08170152&RS=08170152
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08170152
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080711
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 959 204 filed Jul. 12 2007 this application is herein incorporated in its entirety by reference.

This invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. W15P7T 05 C P033 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates to signal detection and more particularly to efficient detection methods for signal detection using higher order statistics.

Numerous applications in telecommunications and signal processing require an estimation of the number of different signal types that are present in the ambient environment. Once an estimation of the number of different signal types has been carried out it is useful to identify the basis functions for these signals. A basis is a minimal set of vectors that in a linear combination can represent every vector in a vector space such that no element of the basis set can be represented as a linear combination of the other vectors in the basis set. A basis function is an element of the basis for a function space. Each function in the function space can be represented as a linear combination of the basis functions. A typical example of the basis function identification is the estimation of the spreading sequence in a direct sequence spread spectrum DSSS signal also termed as code division multiplexing CDMA .

Another area that requires these capabilities is the cognitive radio application. Cognitive radios can enhance commercial and military communication systems by doing away with the need for comprehensive frequency planning. A cognitive radio may sense its environment make decisions on the types of signals present learn the patterns and choose the best possible method of transmitting information. They may be situation aware and capable of making decisions to ensure error free and smooth transfer of bits between users. Cognitive radios may for example be based on software defined radio SDR platforms and attempt to understand not only what users want but also what the surrounding environment can provide. In essence cognitive radios detect the user s communication needs and dynamically find the resources that meet those needs. The simplest form of a cognitive radio identifies a given spectrum as empty or unused. This unused spectrum is also known as white space. The cognitive radio then tries to utilize this white space for the user s communications need. More sophisticated cognitive radios detect not just the white space but also the gray space. Gray space is defined as a space which is partially occupied but there is still some room for more signals to be transmitted without interfering with the existing signals. A sophisticated cognitive radio utilizes the Gray as well as White space in the time frequency spectrum space code and location domains.

As telecommunications equipment evolves in capability and complexity and multiple input and multiple output MIMO systems push the system throughput cognitive radios are expected to be commonplace in the market. A first step for cognitive radio is to understand the surrounding environment and to detect the ambient signals that are present. A typical procedure is to collect the signal from the surrounding environment and to identify whether it represents some meaningful information or just noise.

The methods suggested previously for multiple signal identification are cumbersome to implement in practice. For example the algorithm suggested in E. C. Real D. W. Tufts and J. W. Cooley Two Algorithms for Fast Approximate Subspace Tracking Vol. 47 No. 7 July 1999 may be used to find the basis functions however since no synchronization is carried out it may not be possible to estimate the basis functions.

A need therefore exists for an improved method of multiple signal identification and finding the basis functions of the received signal.

Embodiments of the present invention address this first step of signal detection in the presence of additive white Gaussian noise AWGN using higher order statistics HOS . Instead of calculating the tri spectrum of the received signal which is a cumbersome task this method uses the spectrogram of the signal only segments which is much more easily computable and provides simplicity and efficiency. Additionally synchronization of the received signal ensures accurate alignment of the columns in the singular value decomposition SVD resulting an improved estimation of the basis functions of the received signals.

Embodiments include a method for signal identification comprising the steps of receiving a waveform converting the waveform to time samples dividing the waveform time samples into segments detecting at least one signal for each of the segments classifying the segments as belonging to signal or noise identifying a plurality of signals detected based on singular value decomposition of a specific arrangement of signal only segments and identifying the at least one signal wherein vectors corresponding to dominant singular values of the at least one received signal correspond to basis functions the basis functions designating signal type. The time samples may be digital or discrete. The method of detecting a signal may include energy detection spectral correlation cyclostationarity check and application of higher order statistics. In embodiments the signal may be analog digital discrete time or complex. Detecting the signal may comprise dividing the received waveform into real and imaginary components and detecting the real components and the imaginary components separately. It also may include detecting the signal in base band or pass band.

Detecting the signal may comprise obtaining a compressed spectrogram of signal only segments of the received waveform. The step of detecting the signal may include taking a first singular value decomposition SVD of the compressed spectrogram to obtain a singular value distribution whereby a number of dominant singular values determines a number of signals present in the received waveform. The principal component analysis PCA may be carried out instead of SVD whereby a number of dominant Eigenvalues determines a number of signals present in the received waveform.

In other embodiments finding the basis functions of the signal comprises subjecting a time synchronized matrix to a second singular value decomposition SVD producing a matrix whose diagonal elements correspond to singular values of the signal and columns of the U output matrix correspond to basis vectors of at least one detected signal. Finding the basis functions may also comprise subjecting a time synchronized matrix to a second principal component analysis PCA producing a matrix whose diagonal elements correspond to Eigenvalues of the detected signal and columns of an other output matrix correspond to basis vectors of the detected signal. Also identifying a signal may comprise a threshold derived form normalized singular values such that the highest singular value has an amplitude of unity. The basis functions may be determined by estimating the cyclostationarity of the received waveform and forming columns of signal only segments such that a length of each column is equal to an estimated time period forming a time synchronized matrix of signal only segments. A time frequency detection ratio TFDR may determine whether the signal is single carrier or multi carrier. Identification of types of signals may use a compressed spectrogram based on the TFDR carried out in time TD and frequency FD domains.

Signal types may comprise base band pass band single carrier multi carrier frequency hopping broadband narrow band broad pulse and narrow pulse. The basis functions in the frequency domain FD may be used to re construct a signal.

The basis functions in the frequency domain FD may be used to learn frequency domain patterns of the at least one signal and re construct them. They may also be used to learn frequency domain patterns of the signals and create new signals whose spectral content does not interfere with the spectral content of those signals.

Basis functions may be obtained in the space domain by performing a singular value decomposition SVD of spatial components of the signal. Finding basis functions in the location domain LD may consist of detection of the signal at a particular location followed by subjecting a time synchronized matrix of signal only segments to singular value decomposition SVD . Basis functions may be obtained in time TD code CD space SD location LD and frequency domains. The basis functions in the frequency domain FD may use a compressed spectrogram. The basis functions may be used to re construct the signal. The basis functions may also be used to find another set of signals that do not interfere with signals that are present in the environment.

Additional embodiments include a wireless communication system comprising a signal detection module wherein signals are detected and a signal identification module whereby basis functions of the detected signals are determined. The signal detection module s method of detection may include energy detection spectral correlation cyclo stationarity checking and application of higher order statistics. The signal detection module may also divide a detected signal into real and imaginary components and detect the real and imaginary components separately. The signal detection module may also obtain a compressed spectrogram of signal only segments of a detected signal. A first singular value decomposition SVD of the compressed spectrogram may be taken to obtain a singular value distribution whereby a number of dominant singular values determines a number of signals present in a received signal.

A first Eigenvalue decomposition through principal component analysis PCA of the compressed spectrogram may be taken to obtain an Eigenvalue distribution whereby a number of dominant Eigenvalues determines the number of signals present in a received signal. The signal identification module may also subject a time synchronized matrix to a second singular value decomposition SVD producing a matrix whose diagonal elements correspond to singular values of a detected signal.

The signal identification module may subject a time synchronized matrix to a second principal component analysis PCA producing a matrix whose diagonal elements correspond to Eigenvalues of a detected signal. The signal identification module may also comprise a threshold derived from normalized singular values such that the highest singular value has an amplitude of unity.

In embodiments basis functions are determined by estimating cyclostationarity and forming columns of signal only segments such that a length of each column is equal to an estimated time period.

Another embodiment includes a computer readable medium having computer readable signals stored thereon that define instructions that as a result of being executed by a computer instruct the computer to perform a method of receiving communications identifying multiple communication signals and signal basis functions the method comprising receiving a signal obtaining a compressed spectrogram of the received signal obtaining a first singular value distribution SVD of the compressed spectrogram determining a number of dominant singular values from the first SVD identifying a number of signals present in the received signal from the number of dominant singular values finding signal only segments of the received signal estimating cyclostationarity inherent within the signal only segments forming time synchronized signal only columns of the signal only segments wherein a length of each column is equal to the signal only column s estimated time period forming a time synchronized matrix of the time synchronized signal only columns subjecting the time synchronized matrix to a second SVD and obtaining basis functions of the received signal from the second SVD of the time synchronized matrix the basis functions corresponding to the number of dominant singular values whereby signal types are identified.

The features and advantages described herein are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and not to limit the scope of the inventive subject matter.

Embodiments address the problems of multiple signal identification and finding the basis functions of the received signals.

More detail will be presented for the components of the methods including higher order statistics and signal detection.

There are a number of ways in which a useful information bearing signal can be detected from additive noise. Some of these methods are 1 Energy detection 2 Spectral correlation 3 Checking for cyclo stationarity of the received waveform 4 Use of higher order statistics etc. The method and system of multiple signal identification and finding the basis functions requires signal detection as its first step. As an illustration we use a higher order statistics based signal detection method here but any of the above techniques may be used.

It is known that the higher order cumulants for a Gaussian process are zero. Cumulants are defined as the multiplicative coefficients for each term of the Taylor series expansion of the logarithm of the characteristic function. The characteristic function of of a random variable X is defined as exp 1 where j square root over 1 . The natural logarithm of the characteristic function is defined as the cumulant generating function log 2 or in other words exp . 3 

Since we need to extract these statistics of the random process from the collected waveforms after sampling the waveforms we divide them into segments of length N and place them in vectors x. We then estimate the higher order moments for each of the segments using the following approximation

where circumflex over m is the estimate of the morder moment of the collected waveform samples and is the mean value for the N given samples of data defined as

Using the relationship between the moments and the cumulants of the random process 5 or 6 one can then estimate the cumulants for the received signal samples.

Since the cumulants are computed from the estimates of the moments for every segment of duration N the longer the segment the better are the statistics and the better the estimation. In practice however it is not possible to keep N to be extremely large and it is limited by the duty cycle of the signal itself and the rate at which the signal changes. This means that even if the received waveform belongs to Class Noise it is possible that the cumulants may be non zero. Hence instead of making a hard decision we define a probability Pthat a certain segment belongs to the Class Signal. We also define a threshold which when exceeded increases the probability that the received waveform falls into Class Signal and when the threshold is not exceeded it decreases the probability that the waveform falls into the Class Signal. The method for this is as follows 

Let R be the number of cumulants of the order greater than two available for computation and choose some 0

The parameter is used to control the probability of false alarm P and the probability of detection P . At low values of Pis high and Pis low whereas as increases Pfalls and Pincreases. For most cognitive radio applications higher false alarms are tolerable as long as all the signals that are present are detected accurately. It must be noted that if the received waveforms segments are complex then they are first divided into their real and imaginary parts and processed using the signal detection method separately.

Many types of information bearing signals show a Gaussian distribution in the time domain whereas in the frequency domain they are non Gaussian. For example the amplitude distribution of a direct sequence spread spectrum DSSS signal in the time domain is non Gaussian. On the other hand the amplitude distribution of the multi carrier signal samples such as orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM in the time domain is Gaussian but the distribution of its complex samples in the frequency domain is not.

Hence in order to be able to detect all of these signal types we apply the method in time as well as in the frequency domains as shown in . The received waveform samples are divided into segments of length N and are sent to two different branches. One detects the presence of the signal in the time domain and the other in the frequency domain. Frequency domain detection is performed by first taking Fourier transform of each of the segments as

The samples Xs are converted to vectors X and sent to the signal detection method. The output probabilities originating from the time domain TD detection and the frequency domain FD detection are weighted equally or un equally and added together and if the net value is greater than or equal to 0.5 then the received waveform segment falls into Class Signal otherwise it is falls into Class Noise. It must be noted that if the received waveforms segments or their Fourier transforms are complex then they are first divided into their real and imaginary parts and processed using the signal detection method separately.

The time frequency detection ratio TFDR as the name suggests denotes the ratio of the number of segments detected in the time domain to the number of segments detected in the time and the frequency domain over a particular length of time. Hence 

Where Nis the number of segments detected in the time domain and Nis the number of segments detected in the frequency domain. As previously suggested a single carrier waveform such as DSSS shows a non Gaussian amplitude distribution of its samples in the time domain. Hence we expect the TFDR 0.5. On the other hand a multi carrier waveform such as OFDM shows Gaussian amplitude distribution in the time domain however a non Gaussian amplitude distribution in the frequency domain. As a result we expect that TFDR

Once it is known that the received waveform belongs to Class Signal it is useful to find out how many different signal types are present in it. Dogan and Mendel in one of their papers use the tri spectrum of the received waveform. The tri spectrum is projected onto 2 Dimensions and sampled to form a matrix. The singular value decomposition SVD is then applied to find out the dominant components. Instead of SVD one may also apply Eigen decomposition or Principal Component Analysis PCA if the matrix is square. The number of significant singular or Eigenvalues determines the number of signal types present in the received waveform. A different method is applied here. Instead of tri spectrum a compressed spectrogram of the signal. A compressed spectrogram in this application is defined as the spectrogram of the signal only segments. A spectrogram itself is the result of calculating the frequency spectrum of the windowed frames of a compound signal. If higher computation power is available then one may use the tri spectrum instead. Multiple signal identification may be carried out in the time domain or in the frequency domain. If it is carried out the in time domain then the segments of data waveform that have been classified as Signal are arranged vertically to form vectors and these vectors are then arranged into columns of a matrix X. On the other hand multiple signal identification may be carried out in the frequency domain where the compressed spectrogram of the signal only segments are arranged into the columns of a matrix X. We then take the SVD of this compressed spectrogram and find out the number of dominant singular values which provides us the number of different signal types that are present in the signal. The compressed spectrogram is defined as a spectrogram of only those segments that belong to the Class Signal.

The threshold itself may be computed based on the statistics of various kinds. One of the simple methods of computing such a threshold is to normalize the singular values such that the highest singular value has an amplitude of unity. The number of singular values that exceed some threshold e.g. 0.2 or 20 provides an estimate of the number of signal types that are present and hence multiple signal identification. Various singular values provide an estimate of the strengths of various signals that are present in the mixture.

FIG. s schematic block diagram for identifying the number of signal types depicts an embodiment of this. Received signal is applied to buffer and signal or noise detection as also in . The decision from the signal detection stage is used to identify whether a particular segment of the received data waveform belongs to Class Signal or Class Noise. The segments which have been classified of the type Signal are stored in buffer whose output is input to either a spectrogram or a switch through path . Spectrogram output is applied to switch through path . Switch is used to select whether the multiple signal identification is carried out in the time domain TD or in the frequency domain FD . As an example if the TFDR from the signal detection stage is greater than or equal to 0.5 then multiple signal identification is carried out in the TD. Otherwise it is carried out in the FD. The serial to parallel S P conversion arranges the TD or FD signal only segments into columns of a Matrix X . Hence Matrix X is a signal only matrix. Matrix X is then input to a singular value decomposition SVD or Principal Component Analysis PCA stage. SVD output SVD X UDV is in form of three matrices U D and V. D is the diagonal matrix whose diagonal elements Dcorrespond to the singular values. These singular values Ds are applied to threshold comparison circuit . If the singular values Dare greater than some threshold then they are associated with a signal type. Hence the number of singular values that exceed some threshold corresponds to the number of different signals types that are present in the received waveforms. also shows the mechanism of the TD FD multiple signal identification routine where signals H through H are summed producing signal H . Embodiments of the method try to estimate the number of different signals that constitute H .

Basis functions of the received signals can provide important information about the signal itself and what constitutes it. An advantage of finding the basis functions of a signal is that one can then use another set of basis vectors or functions which are orthogonal to the basis vectors or functions of the original detected signals to constitute a new signal. This new signal will not interfere with the original signal set due to the orthogonality of its basis vectors or functions . The basis set of a signal may be obtained in time frequency space code or location. For example it would be important to know the spreading sequence given that the received signal is formed using code division multiplexing CDMA . This type of a signal is also referred to as a direct sequence spread spectrum DSSS signal. Given that this CDMA DSSS signal uses a certain set of codes one can then find a code set which is orthogonal to the original set to constitute new signals and transmit more information in a given space.

In order to find the basis functions of the received signal the SVD of the signal only matrix is obtained. However rather than choosing the length of the columns of the matrix arbitrarily some prior synchronization is done on the received waveform to find the underlying periodicity. This estimate Tof the periodicity in the waveform is used to determine the number of samples in each column of a synchronized signal only matrix X as also shown in . Then the SVD of this synchronized signal only matrix X is obtained and the vector U corresponding to various principal singular values determines the basis functions of the received signal. In case Matrix X is a square matrix one may perform Eigen decomposition. The Eigenvectors corresponding to the principal Eigenvalues determine the basis functions vectors.

The method and system described above may be typically used for finding the basis functions or vectors of the signals of interest in the Time and the Code Domains.

When an SVD is used on the compressed spectrogram of the signal as described previously then the resultant U matrix contains the basis functions of the received signals in the frequency or spectral domain. Such basis functions in the Frequency Domain can completely re construct the signals. The basis functions may also be used to learn frequency domain patterns of the signals and re construct them or create new signals whose spectral content does not co inside interfere with the spectral content of the signals that are already present.

Similarly basis functions of the signals of interest may be found in the space domain SD by performing the singular value decomposition SVD of the spatial components of the signals for example received through various antennas and as a result of beam forming. Basis functions of the signals from one location to the other may be found by simple signal detection and the use of previously described steps.

Summarizing basis vectors or functions of the detected signals obtained in the time domain TD frequency domain FD code domain CD space domain SD and locations domain LD as described earlier may be used to either re construct the signals of interest or to find another set of signals that do not interfere with the signals that are present in the environment hence improving system efficiency and utilization of resources.

The system and methods described earlier may be used in cognitive communications systems to find a signal set that does not interfere with the existing signal set. They may be used to collect signal information and they may be used to identify jamming waveforms.

This section explains the simulation and experimental results for embodiments of the signal detection method and its applications.

Finally shows the results of identifying the basis functions for the received signal as explained in Section III C Applications of Signal Detection Methods Finding the Basis Functions for the Received Signal. The over the air collected IEEE 802.11b waveforms were used to find the basis function. The waveform shown corresponds to the first singular value of SVD of the time synchronized signal only matrix. The IEEE 802.11b waveforms use the spreading sequence given by 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 and as can be seen in the figure this spreading sequence can be clearly identified as an output of finding the basis functions algorithms.

This method detects a broad class of signals in Gaussian noise using higher order statistics. The method is able to detect a number of signal types. In a typical setting this method provided an error rate of 3 at a signal to noise ratio of 0 dB. This method gave the time frequency detection ratio used to determine whether the detected signal fell in Class Single Carrier of Class Multi Carrier. Additionally applications were shown such as signal identification and finding the basis functions of received signals.

The method has the advantages of being both simple and efficient. Instead of needing the tri spectrum of the received signal which is a cumbersome task this technique uses the spectrogram of the signal only segments which is much more easily computable. Additionally synchronization of the received signal ensures accurate alignment of the columns in the SVD resulting in an improved estimation of the basis functions of the received signals.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of this disclosure. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

