---

title: Cell-mediated immune response assay and kits therefor
abstract: The present invention provides methods and kits for measuring a cell-mediated immune (CMI) in a small volume of whole undiluted blood collected from a subject. In particular, the methods are for measuring responses in undiluted whole blood samples having a volume of, for example, 50 μl to 500 μl. Thus, capillary sampling and rapid testing of subjects including pediatric, adult or geriatric human subjects are facilitated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08871508&OS=08871508&RS=08871508
owner: Cellestis Limited
number: 08871508
owner_city: Carnegie
owner_country: AU
publication_date: 20080314
---
The present invention relates generally to methods and kits for use in diagnosis monitoring or treatment that measure cellular responsiveness to an agent in vitro. In particular the present invention provides a system for measuring a cell mediated immune CMI response to an antigen in a small sample of whole blood collected from a subject. The methods and kits will find broad application in the analysis of whole blood samples having a range of different volumes including those from infants and children or other subjects where sample volume is limiting or where small sample volumes are desirable.

Bibliographic details of the publications referred to by author in this specification are collected at the end of the description.

The reference in this specification to any prior publication or information derived from it or to any matter which is known is not and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication or information derived from it or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.

The function of the immune response is to disarm invading pathogens or toxins. The immune response can in some circumstances be very destructive to an organism and survival depends upon the ability of the immune system to distinguish self from non self. Autoimmune diseases for example develop when the immune system over responds to self. Some immune responses are against non self molecules that are relatively harmless. Asthma and hayfever for example involve immune responses to non self where the immune response is more debilitating than the causative agent. Generally the innate immune system screens out responses to non pathogenic organisms and helps to prevent adaptive immune responses to such harmless agents.

Adaptive immune responses are carried out by lymphocytes such as B lymphocytes that carry out antibody responses or T lymphocytes which carry out cell mediated responses. B lymphocytes produce immunoglobulins which help to deactivate pathogens and toxins. T cells react directly with non self molecules antigens that are presented on the surface of host cells in association with major histocompatibility MHC molecules that provide a repertoire of self molecules. In both cases a cellular response is generated that is specific to particular epitopes of the non self molecule and provides a network of immune responses and immune effector molecules.

Accordingly one method for diagnosing or monitoring an infection or evaluating the ability of a subject to mount an immune response to non self is to determine whether the subject has mounted an immune response to antigen stimulation. As the T cell response comprises the production of effector T cells that are capable of responding to an antigen or can be stimulated to respond to the antigen by producing immune effector molecules one can measure the production of these molecules in vitro in response to specific antigens as a measure of a cell mediated immune response. However as non self antigenic molecules are presented to T cells by antigen presenting cells there is a complex interaction of molecules and cells that must take place successfully in vitro in order to produce sufficient immune effector molecule for detection.

Most in vitro methods for detecting cell mediated immune responses involve the purification of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from whole blood using various separation techniques. Such assays include chromium release assays cytotoxicity assays MHC class I tetramer assays assays for IFN or other cytokines of which ELISPOT provides a good example. The ELISPOT method immobilizes antigen presenting cells and has been used to detect the number of T cells producing certain cytokines in response to antigenic stimulation.

If whole blood is used it is generally diluted in a culture medium in order to dilute red blood cells which are considered to reduce the sensitivity of the assays. An in tube cell mediated immune response assay which uses undiluted whole blood is described in International Publication No. WO 2004 042396 in the name of Cellestis Limited incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. International Publication No. WO 2004 042396 discloses the use of blood collection tubes for the incubation of sample with antigen and a simple sugar and shows enhanced sensitivity using the tube system compared to assays where blood is transferred to and incubated in 24 well microtitre plates.

For whole blood assays in humans and livestock animals at least about three milliliters of blood is taken from the subject in order to provide sufficient material to perform cell mediated immune response assays. This amount is generally taken by venous blood sampling via needle into a collection vessel often under vacuum.

Various methods of detecting immune effector molecules such as enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA radio immuno assay RIA or cytometric methods can use small volumes however there is a need in the art for improved systems for conducting the antigenic stimulation phases of in vitro cell mediated immune response assays. In particular methods that allow whole blood testing in small volumes of blood such as those obtained by peripheral capillary sampling are needed. The ability to screen small samples of blood would greatly facilitate sampling of children or other subjects where blood may be limited or difficult to obtain and allows blood sampling without venous blood sampling by using capillary blood such as that obtained by prick testing of the thumb heel ear lobe or other convenient site and for testing multiple or a range of antigen including mitogen and hapten stimulants in a single blood draw of low volume.

The present invention is predicated in part upon the surprising discovery that it is possible to generate and detect a cellular immune response in a very small volume of whole blood from a subject and that this does not have to be venous or arterial blood. This means that collection of blood for the conduct of cell mediated immune response assays can be achieved using for example prick sampling of peripheral capillary blood which generally yields volumes of about one milliliter or less. Further that very small samples of whole blood can be tested for their ability to produce immune effector molecules facilitating multiple testing from small samples.

In one broad embodiment the present invention provides a method for measuring a cell mediated immune response in a sample from a subject wherein the sample comprises cells that secrete an immune effector molecule following stimulation by an agent such as an antigen. In one particular embodiment the present invention provides a method for measuring a cell mediated immune CMI response in a sample of whole blood collected from a subject wherein said whole blood sample comprises cells of the immune system which are capable of producing immune effector molecules following stimulation by an antigen the method comprising i incubating a whole blood sample from a peripheral capillary or less than 0.5 mL whole blood from a artery or vein of a subject with an antigen in an incubation container substantially without dilution of the sample and ii detecting or measuring the presence of an immune effector molecule or of a nucleic acid molecule capable of producing an effector molecule indicative of the capacity of the subject to mount a cell mediated response.

In another embodiment the method comprises i collecting a whole blood sample from a peripheral capillary or less than 0.5 mL whole blood from an artery or vein of a subject into a container ii incubating whole blood with an antigen and anti coagulant and iii detecting or measuring the presence of an immune effector molecule or of a nucleic acid molecule capable of producing an immune effector molecule indicative of the capacity of the subject to mount a cell mediated response.

The method will find broad application in selecting a suitable therapeutic protocol for the treatment of a subject having for example an inflammatory disease condition a pathogenic infection such as one caused by a bacterial viral parasite or fungal pathogen an autoimmune disorder immuno incompetence allergy or cancer or a propensity for developing such a disorder.

In a preferred embodiment the methods comprise collecting and or incubating a capillary blood sample or collecting a sample from the subject with a capillary sampling device.

The method comprises in some embodiments incubating the sample with an agent under conditions in which the shape of the sample comprises a dimension which has been optimised. In some embodiments the dimension has been optimised for a particular subject or subject population. In other embodiments the dimension has been optimised for a particular cellular sample. In some embodiments the dimension is the height of the sample. In another embodiment the volume is optimised. In a further embodiment the concentration of peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC or other immune cells is also optimised. By optimised is meant that the selected dimension value or range provides the optimal cellular response compared to other values or ranges tested. Thus in some embodiments the sample comprises a dimension that has been pre selected using the methods disclosed herein to provide an optimal cellular response.

As illustrated in Example 1 standard conjugate linked immunoassay testing demonstrated that IFN is produced in total volumes of blood incubation as small as 0.5 mL 0.4 mL 0.3 mL 0.2 mL and 0.1 mL. Further experiments described in Examples 2 to 4 show that incubation of blood samples as small as 20 l and or having a sample height of 4 mm can generate sufficient immune effector molecules to be useful in a diagnostic assay. Optimum results are obtained in sample heights of about 6 mm to about 12 mm or about 5 mm to about 18 mm and intermediate values independent of the volume of sample collected or incubated.

Accordingly in some embodiments the incubation container is suitable for maintaining an optimal shape of the sample wherein the shape has one or two or more dimensions selected from i a maximum circular diameter of less than about 6 mm ii a height of at least about 4 mm to 6 mm to a maximum height of about 12 mm to 20 mm or iii a volume of less than 0.5 mL and optionally less than about 400 l.

In another aspect the present invention provides a kit for measuring a cell mediated response to an agent in a whole blood sample from a subject the kit comprising a collection vessel housed separately or together with an agent capable of stimulating an immune cell to secrete an immune effector molecule and further optionally comprising instructions for use. In some embodiments the sample is transferred from a collection container to one or more containers for incubation with antigen and the kit comprises one or more collection container and one or more incubation container. Conveniently in some embodiments the collection container comprises anticoagulant. In other embodiments the incubation container comprises antigen and optionally a simple sugar such as dextrose.

Accordingly the present invention provides kits for measuring a cell mediated immune response in a whole blood sample collected from a subject the kits comprising in multicomponent form i one or more collection and or incubation containers suitable for holding or incubating a whole peripheral capillary blood sample or less than 0.5 mL of whole venous or arterial blood ii one or more test antigens for analysis of in vitro responses thereto and optionally a control antigen iii reagents for measuring the presence or elevation in the level of an immune effector molecule and iv optionally a set of instructions comprising any of the herein disclosed methods.

In some embodiments the incubation container is suitable for maintaining an optimal shape of the sample wherein the shape has one or two or more dimensions selected from i a maximum circular diameter of less than about 6 mm ii a height of at least about 4 mm to 6 mm to a maximum height of about 12 mm to 20 mm or iii a volume of less than 0.5 mL and optionally less than 400 l.

Instructions for example may comprise instructions to collect whole blood and mix blood in collection incubation container in order to mix anticoagulant with the blood. In other embodiments the instructions include instructions to incubate the whole blood sample with an antigen and optionally with a control antigen or mitogen. In other embodiments the instructions comprise instructions to centrifuge the incubation container and collect plasma. In some embodiments the instructions comprise instructions to detect an immune effector molecule in plasma.

In some embodiments the collection vessel is marked to identify a sample height of about 12 mm. In some embodiments the kit comprises a plurality of marked collection vessels of the same and or different dimensions. In some embodiments the kit comprises a capillary sampling device. In another embodiment the kit comprises one or more test antigens for diagnosis and optionally a mitogen as a control antigen for the analysis of in vitro responses thereto. Optionally the kit further comprises reagents appropriate for measuring the presence or elevation in the level of an immune effector molecule or their encoding molecules including positive and negative controls. In some embodiments the kit further comprises reagents appropriate for the conduct of an assay for immune effector detection. In one embodiment the assay is an assay for IFN or a downstream effector molecule. In a preferred embodiment the reagent comprises an antibody conjugate for detecting IFN TNF or GM CSF. In an exemplary embodiment the antibody conjugate detects IFN . Such assays include for example an ELISA or ELISPOT based assay or similar assays known in the art. In another embodiment the assay is a reverse transcription amplification assay for RNA encoding the immune effector molecule such as IFN . Such assays are known in the art and are described for example Sambrook 3Edition CSHLP CSH NY 2001 and Ausubel Ed 5Edition John Wiley Sons Inc NY 2002.

In another aspect the present invention contemplates methods which may be automated or semi automated computer programs computer products computers for facilitating the interpretation of output from the subject assays.

The above summary is not and should not been seen in any way as an exhaustive recitation of all embodiments of the present invention.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention preferred methods and materials are described. For the purposes of the present invention the following terms are defined below.

The term about provides for some variation or correction in the numerical value of the term which it precedes. It pertains to a quantity volume level value percentage dimension size or amount that varies by as much as 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 4 or 3 to a recited term. Thus at least about 6 mm includes 4 mm or 5 mm as well as 6 mm and heights greater than 6 mm while about 12 mm includes 13 mm 14 mm 15 mm or 16 mm and heights smaller than 12 mm. In addition the term covers parts of unit numerical values such as 6.5 mm or 6.9 mm etc. In a preferred embodiment the variation is minor and is limited to a 10 or 15 variation in the numerical value.

The articles a and an are used herein to refer to one or to more than one i.e. to at least one of the grammatical object of the article. By way of example an antigen means one antigen or more than one antigen an immune effector molecule means one or more immune effector molecules.

The term antigen as used herein includes any molecule or agent that stimulates an immune response and particularly a cellular immune response and includes an antisense protein or peptide a hapten mitogen allergen or toxin or any naturally occurring or synthetic molecule or parts thereof having this activity. In some embodiments the antigen comprises one or more full length or part length polypeptides. In other embodiments the antigen comprises a peptide or a set of peptides from one or more different full length or part length polypeptides. In some embodiments antigens are employed which mimic one or more of the effects of antigens presented to the immune system in vivo. Generally test antigens are selected for optimum selectivity and sensitivity in a given population or subject. In one illustrative embodiment the antigen is an antigen from . In some embodiments the antigen is a tuberculosis TB specific antigen. In other embodiments the antigen is purified protein derivative from or . In some embodiments the antigen simulates mycobacterial proteins such as ESAT 6 Skjot et al. 68 1 214 20 2000 CFP 10 and TB7 Brock et al. 5 5 462 467 2001 . A mitogen may be used as a positive control or to detect the ability of cells in the sample to mount an antigen non specific immune response. In other embodiments the agent is a mitogen. In other embodiments the antigen is selected from a self antigen an antigen from a pathogenic organism a metal or inorganic molecule stimulating immune response or a tumor antigen. In some embodiments the agent antigen is a phospholipid phosphoprotein or phospholipoprotein. In another illustrative embodiment the antigen is from cytomegalovirus CMV . In some embodiments the antigen from a pathogenic organism is a bacterial viral parasite or fungal antigen or analog thereof.

Unless the context requires otherwise the word comprise and variations such as comprises and comprising will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.

Each embodiment described herein is to be applied mutatis mutandis to each and every other embodiment unless specifically stated otherwise.

Preferably the subject is human. The present invention contemplates however primates livestock animals companion animals and avian species as well as non mammalian animals such as reptiles and amphibians. The assay has applications therefore in human livestock veterinary and wild life therapy diagnosis and monitoring. In some embodiments the human subject is selected from a group exhibiting a particular attribute or condition. In some embodiments the subject is a pediatric adult or geriatric subject. In some embodiments the subject has or has had a pathogenic infection an autoimmune disorder or cancer or is undergoing treatment for cancer or has a propensity for developing such a condition is immunocompromised or undergoing an inflammatory response. Once the subject has been evaluated including using the present methods and or kits they may then be treated and accordingly methods encompassing diagnosis and treatment are also specifically contemplated.

Accordingly the present invention provides any of the herein disclosed methods wherein the subject is human including a pediatric adult or geriatric subject. In other embodiments the subject is an animal or bird such as a livestock racing exotic migratory animal or bird.

As stated above one of the significant advantages of the present invention is the facility to conduct CMI assays using undiluted whole blood from a peripheral capillary. Accordingly in some embodiments the method comprises collecting a sample from the subject with a capillary sampling device. The device may be a prick device suitable for capillary sampling any peripheral capillary such as those of the thumb finger heel toe ear lobe etc. In some embodiments the device comprises a capillary tube. A capillary tube or other narrow or conical container is useful to form a sample shape of optimum height with very small samples such as those between about 20 l to 50 l and about 200 l to 250 l. In some embodiments the incubation container is suitable for maintaining an optimal shape of the sample wherein the shape has one or two or more dimensions selected from i a circular diameter of less than 6 mm ii a height of at least about 4 mm to 6 mm to a maximum height of about 12 mm to 20 mm or iii a volume of less than 0.5 mL and optionally less than 400 l. In some embodiments the sample in the container has a height of at least about 6 mm to a maximum of about 12 mm. In some embodiments the sample has a height of 4 mm 5 mm 6 mm 7 mm 8 mm 9 mm 10 mm 11 mm 12 mm 13 mm 14 mm 15 mm 16 mm 17 mm 18 mm 19 mm or 20 mm or an intervening height. In other embodiments the sample has a height of 6 mm 7 mm 8 mm 9 mm 10 mm 11 mm or 12 mm or an intermediate height. Regarding the volume of the sample in some embodiments the total sample volume incubated is less than 500 l less than 400 l less than 300 l less than 200 l less than 100 l or less than 50 l. Where the sample is capillary blood the total sample volume incubated is selected from about 200 l 1500 l 1400 l 1300 l 1200 l 1100 l 900 l 800 l 700 l 600 l 500 l 400 l 300 l 200 l 100 l 50 l or 40 l or an intermediate volume. In some embodiments the sample is collected into an about 3 4 mm diameter capillary tube.

Reference to immune cells includes cells such as lymphocytes including natural killer NK cells T cells CD4 and or CD8 cells B cells macrophages and monocytes dendritic cells or any other cell which is capable of producing an effector molecule in response to direct or indirect antigen stimulation. Conveniently the immune cells are lymphocytes and more particularly T lymphocytes.

Accordingly the present invention contemplates the methods as herein disclosed wherein the immune cells are selected from a natural killer NK cell T cell B cell macrophage or monocyte. In a preferred embodiment the cells are T cells.

The immune effector molecules may be any of a range of molecules which are produced in response to cell activation or stimulation by an antigen. Although an interferon IFN such as IFN is a particularly useful immune effector molecule others include a range of cytokines such as interleukins IL e.g. IL 2 IL 3 IL 4 IL 5 IL 10 or IL 12 tumor necrosis factor alpha TNF TNF a colony stimulating factor CSF such as granulocyte G CSF or granulocyte macrophage GM CSF amongst many others such as complement or components in the complement pathway perforins defensins cathelicidins granzymes Fas ligand CD 40 ligand exotaxins cytotoxins chemokines and monokines.

Accordingly in some embodiments the present invention provides methods wherein the immune effector molecule is a cytokine component of the complement system perforin defensin cathelicidin granzyme Fas ligand CD 40 ligand exotaxin cytotoxin chemokine or monokine. In a preferred embodiment the cytokine is IFN TNF or GM CSF.

By whole blood is meant blood from a subject that has not been substantially diluted or fractionated maintaining the ambient environment of blood for the cells as close to natural plasma conditions as practical. Thus the addition of small volumes or dried amounts of for example antigen sugar or anticoagulant does not constitute dilution in accordance with the present invention whereas addition of culture medium in excess of the blood volume constitutes dilution. Notwithstanding that whole undiluted blood is the preferred and most convenient sample the present invention extends to other samples containing immune cells such as lymph fluid cerebral fluid tissue fluid such as bone marrow or thymus fluid and respiratory fluid including nasal and pulmonary fluid. Derivatives of these samples may also be obtained by processing. For example buffy coat cells or peripheral blood mononuclear cells or antigen processing cells are obtained by methods known in the art. Whole blood may also be treated to remove components such as red blood cells and or platelets by methods known in the art. Substantial dilution would occur by the addition to the sample of more than about 40 to 50 of the original volume.

Accordingly in some embodiments the method comprises detecting the presence of an effector molecule or a nucleic acid molecule capable of producing an effector molecule. In this embodiment the presence or an elevation in the level of a effector molecule or a nucleic acid molecule capable of producing the effector molecule is indicative of the capacity of the subject to mount a cell mediated response.

In an illustrative embodiment the shape of the sample comprises a height which has been optimised. In one example of this embodiment the cellular sample comprises a height of at least 6 milliliters mm to a maximum of about 12 mm or any intervening height. As the skilled artisan will appreciate the presently disclosed requirement for an optimised height for the sample permits considerable variation or choice concerning the volume of sample employed and the shape of the container in which the sample is incubated. Thus in some embodiments a large volume of sample say 10 milliliters mL of blood is incubated in a container of appropriate dimensions to ensure that the height of the sample during incubation does not exceed about 12 mm. At the other end of scale a 50 microliter l sample could be incubated for example in a 3 4 mm diameter capillary tube in order to provide a sample height of at least about 6 mm to a maximum of about 12 mm or any intervening height. The present invention is not necessarily limited to any particular volume of sample to be incubated or to any particular dimension or shape of sample containing vessel. However it is a preferred aspect that the present invention facilitates the use of small volumes of blood including capillary sampling volumes and therefore avoids the need for venous blood sampling. Further that there is no need to dilute blood requiring further handling steps and maintains the blood in its optional state for measuring an immune response. The above optimum heights have been determined using whole blood from human donors. Other subjects or subject populations or subgroups or cellular sample types have different features and exhibit some variation in the optimum height for sample incubation. In these groups some further minor variation in the minimum and maximum height for sample incubation through optimisation is contemplated. Once the present invention is appreciated such optimisation is well within the skill of the addressee.

In some embodiments the container in which sample and antigen are co incubated is also the collection container used to collect sample from the subject. Any one of a large number of different available containers may be used provided that they provide suitable sample dimensions. A number of different tubes are described in the Examples for the purpose of illustration and the present invention is in no way restricted to these containers. In some embodiments the container is a tube which comprises a vacuum to facilitate the collection of blood from a subject. In other embodiments the container is a capillary tube. In some embodiments a capillary tube is used to collect blood from the surface of the skin by capillary action. In some embodiments the sample is collected from a subject into a collection container containing antigen or to which antigen is subsequently added. In some embodiments the blood is sampled using a capillary sampling device such as a pin prick device and blood is collected into a heparinised collecting container and subsequently transferred into an appropriate container for co incubation with agent.

In some embodiments the sample is a blood sample. Generally blood is maintained in the presence of an anticoagulant such as heparin which may be in the container when blood is added or is added subsequently. Optionally a simple sugar such as dextrose is contained in the container or added to the incubation mixture. In some preferred embodiments the blood sample is a whole blood sample. In some embodiments whole blood from a subject is collected into a container containing antigen and or anti coagulant in other embodiments antigen and or anti coagulant are added to the blood thereafter.

In one embodiment the method comprises collecting a blood sample from a subject using a capillary sampling device and introducing blood into a suitable collection vessel. In some embodiments the capillary sampling device comprises an anticoagulant and the antigen. In other embodiments the collection vessel or subsequent vessel comprises the antigen. In other embodiments the collection vessel comprises a simple sugar such as dextrose or other agent that maintains the ability of the sample cells to mount a CMI response. By whatever route the method comprises contacting the antigen with the blood sample substantially without dilution of the sample and incubating the sample with the antigen under conditions in which the shape of the sample comprises a height that has been optimised for a particular subject or subject population or sample type. In another embodiment the method comprises incubating the sample with the agent and detecting the presence of an effector molecule or a nucleic acid molecule capable of producing an effector molecule. In an illustrative embodiment the immune effector molecule is a cytokine such as IFN .

In other embodiments blood is collected by standard procedures into a collection vessel and transferred to sample testing vessels of pre determined dimensions to ensure that a defined volume of blood is incubated with the antigen under conditions in which the shape of the sample comprises a height or volume that has been optimised for a particular subject or subject population or sample type.

The use of blood collection tubes as collection vessels and testing vessels is disclosed in International Publication No. WO 2004 042396 in the name of Cellestis Limited the content of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

In some embodiments the blood sample incubated with an antigen comprises a volume of less than about 1 mL of blood or more than about 2 mL of blood. In other embodiments the 1 mL blood sample or about 1 mL blood sample during incubation does not comprise a breadth of 13 mm.

In some embodiments the capillary sampling device is a prick device such as but by no means limited to those described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 469 110.

In another embodiment the method comprises evaluating a cell mediated immune response in a blood sample from one or more subject groups wherein samples from each subject group are evaluated to determine a minimum volume of sample to be assessed from each subject group. Optionally the method comprises sampling the amount of blood appropriate to each subject or subject group wherein each sample comprises during incubation with antigens a shape comprising a height that has been optimised for a particular subject or subject population or sample type. In this way for example the results from the analysis of subject samples comprising small sample volumes less than about one milliliter can readily be compared with the results from larger samples comprising for example several milliliters of blood. Thus the present invention by characterising and controlling a variable in the cell mediated response assay enhances the diagnostic value of the output from the assay.

The present invention is also predicated in part upon the observation that the height of the sample during incubation determined by the shape of the incubation vessel can be used to modulate the sensitivity of cell mediated immune response assays. In one embodiment the present invention provides a method of measuring a cell mediated immune response in a cellular sample said method comprising incubating the sample with an antigen under conditions in which the shape of the sample comprises a height of at least 6 milliliters mm to about 12 mm. In a particularly useful application of this observation the present invention provides a method of assaying samples from subjects where sample volume is limiting or where low sample volumes are desirable. In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention practiced with blood samples blood samples as small as about 20 l to about 200 l are employed wherein the shape of the sample during incubation comprises a height of at least about 6 milliliters mm at its highest point to a maximum height of about 12 mm at its highest point.

Accordingly in one aspect the present invention provides a method of performing a cell mediated immune response assay on a sample from a subject wherein said method avoids the use of needles the method comprising collecting blood using a capillary sampling device to take small volumes of blood. In another related aspect the invention encompasses the practise of the herein described assays including the use of small volumes of sample such as one or more samples of about 20 l to less than but about 1 mL. In other embodiments standard blood sampling for cellular assay techniques are employed and larger sample volumes are used typically 1 mL to 5 mL but encompassing volumes as great as about 10 to 200 mLs or more. In a preferred embodiment the total incubation volume of whole blood is within the range of about 50 l to less than about 500 l.

The present invention provides a method for measuring a cell mediated immune CMI response in a subject sample comprising incubating the sample with an agent under conditions in which the shape of the sample comprises a dimension which has been optimised. In some embodiments the cellular sample is incubated with the antigen for from about 4 or 5 to about 50 hours.

In some embodiments the method is based upon measuring immune effector molecule production by cells of the immune system in response to antigenic stimulation. In other embodiments immune effector molecule is the immediate effector molecule produced by effector T cells in response to antigen stimulation. In other embodiments a downstream effector is measured. For example IFN or other immediate effector molecules elicit the production of further effector molecules whose production is measured. In another embodiment the production of immune effectors is measured by measuring the level or presence of nucleic acid molecules capable of producing immune effectors. Accordingly in some embodiments immune effectors may be detected using ligands or binding molecules such as antibodies specific for the effectors or by measuring the level of expression of genes encoding the effectors. The present invention provides therefore a means to determine the cellular responsiveness of a subject and in turn provides a means for the diagnosis of infectious diseases pathological conditions immune status level of immunocompetence and a marker of T cell responsiveness to endogenous or exogenous antigens.

Accordingly in another embodiment the present invention contemplates a method for measuring a CMI response in a subject said method comprising i collecting a fluid sample from the subject into a collection vessel wherein said sample comprises cells of the immune system which produce immune effector molecules following stimulation by an agent. In some embodiments the collection vessel comprises an anticoagulant such as heparin. In other embodiments the collection vessel comprises the agent. In some embodiments the method further comprises contacting the agent with the sample in the collection vessel. The method further comprises iii incubating said sample with an antigen under conditions in which the shape of the sample comprises a dimension which has been optimised. In some embodiments the method optionally comprises iv detecting the presence of an immune effector molecule or a nucleic acid molecule capable of producing either of these wherein presence or elevation in the level of a effector molecule or a nucleic acid molecule capable of producing the effector molecule is indicative of the capacity of the subject to mount a cell mediated response. In other embodiments the immune effector is a cytokine cytotoxin or chemokine. In an illustrative embodiment the immune effector is IFN .

In some embodiments the shape of the sample is optimised by measuring effector cell function in samples having a range of dimensions and selecting the shape that is associated with the most sensitive measurement of effector cell function. In a preferred embodiment the height of the sample is varied. In an illustrative embodiment the height of the sample is varied about 12 mm for a maximum height and about 6 mm for a minimum height.

According to a preferred embodiment the present invention provides a method for measuring a CMI response in a human subject said method comprising collecting a sample from said human subject using a capillary sampling device into a collection vessel.

In some embodiments the sample comprises cells of the immune system which are capable of producing immune effector molecules following stimulation by an antigen mitogen or hapten. In some embodiments the method comprises incubating said sample with an antigen and then measuring the presence of or elevation in the level of an immune effector molecule wherein the presence or level of said immune effector molecule is indicative of the capacity of said human subject to mount a cell mediated immune response.

Accordingly in another preferred embodiment the present invention provides a method for measuring a CMI response in a subject said method comprising collecting a sample from said subject into a collection vessel wherein said sample comprises cells of the immune system which are capable of producing IFN molecules following stimulation by an antigen incubating said sample with an antigen and then measuring the presence of or elevation in the level of an IFN molecule wherein the presence or level of said IFN molecule is indicative of the capacity of said subject to mount a cell mediated immune response.

The sample collected from the subject is generally deposited into a blood collection vessel. Notwithstanding that whole undiluted blood is the preferred and most convenient sample the present invention extends to other samples containing immune cells such as lymph fluid cerebral fluid tissue fluid and respiratory fluid including nasal and pulmonary fluid.

The cells of the CMI system lose the capacity to mount a CMI response in whole blood after extended periods following blood draw from the subject and responses without intervention are often severely reduced or absent by 24 hours following blood draw. The reduction of labor and need for specialized equipment in the present invention allows CMI stimulation with antigens to be performed at the point of care locations such as physicians offices clinics outpatient facilities and veterinary clinics or on farms. Once antigen stimulation is complete the requirement for fresh and active cells no longer exists. IFN and other cytokines or immune effector molecules are stable in plasma and thus the sample can be stored or shipped without special conditions or rapid time requirements in a similar fashion to standard serum samples used for other infectious disease or other disease diagnosis.

The incubation step may be from about 4 or 5 hours to 50 hours more preferably about 5 hours to 40 hours and even more preferably about 8 to 24 or about 16 to 24 hours or a time period in between. In some embodiments after an optional initial mixing step to distribute antigens throughout the sample the sample incubating is carried out without mixing further.

Accordingly another preferred embodiment of the present invention contemplates a method for measuring a CMI response in a subject including a human subject said method comprising collecting a sample of whole blood from said subject by capillary sampling incubating said whole blood sample with an antigen and then measuring the presence or elevation in level of an immune effector molecule such as IFN wherein the presence or level of said immune effector molecule is indicative of the capacity of said subject to mount a cell mediated immune response.

The ability to measure CMI is important for assessing a subject s ability to respond to an infection by an pathogenic agent such as a microorganism or virus or parasite to mount an autoimmune response such as in diabetes to protect against cancers or other oncological conditions or to test for sensitivity to environmental antigens allergy testing . Consequently reference to measuring a CMI response in a subject includes and encompasses immune diagnosis of infectious and autoimmune diseases a marker for immunocompetence and the detection of T cell responses to endogenous and or exogenous antigens including a measure of the efficacy of a vaccine as well as a marker for allergies inflammatory diseases and cancer.

The ability to perform this test in small volumes of blood is important for pediatric and other samples where blood may be limiting. The absence of any handling steps in purifying lymphocytes adds an advantage in small blood volumes as purification and enumeration of lymphocytes from small volumes has practical difficulties as does the addition of warmed sterile media and reagents in a sterile environment. The ability to obtain an optimal CMI response in a small volume by adjusting the relative proportions such as shape width and height of the incubating vessel or sample provides valuable advantages. The terms vessel container compartment are used interchangeably and include any receptacle that holds any volume such as a well dip tube eppendorf and the like.

Autoimmune diseases contemplated herein include inter alia Alopecia Areata Ankylosing Spondylitis Antiphospholipid Syndrome Autoimmune Addison s Disease Multiple Sclerosis Autoimmune disease of the adrenal gland Autoimmune Hemolytic Anemia Autoimmune Hepatitis Autoimmune oophoritis and orchitis Behcet s Disease Bullous Pemphigoid Cardiomyopathy Celiac Sprue Dermatitis Chronic Fatigue Syndrome CFIDS Chronic Inflam. Demyelinating Chronic Inflam. Polyneuropathy Churg Strauss Syndrome Cicatricial Pemphigoid CREST Syndrome Cold Agglutinin Disease Crohn s Disease Dermatitis herpetiformis Discoid Lupus Essential Mixed Cryoglobulinemia Fibromyalgia Glomerulonephritis Grave s Disease Guillain Barre Hashimoto s Thyroiditis Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Idiopathic Thrombocytopenia Purpura ITP IgA Nephropathy Insulin Dependent Diabetes Type I Lichen Planus Lupus Meniere s Disease Mixed Connective Tissue Disease Multiple sclerosis Myasthenia Gravis Myocarditis Pemphigus Vulgaris Pernicious Anemia Polyarteritis Nodosa Polychondritis Polyglancular Syndromes Polymyalgia Rheumatica Polymyositis and Dermatomyositis Primary Agammaglobulinemia Primary Biliary Cirrhosis Psoriasis Raynaud s Phenomenon Reiter s Syndrome Rheumatic Fever Rheumatoid Arthritis Sarcoidosis Scleroderma Sjogren s Syndrome Stiff Man Syndrome Systemic lupus erythematosus Takayasu Arteritis Temporal Arteritis Giant Cell Arteritis Ulcerative Colitis Uveitis Vasculitis and Vitiligo.

Examples of inflammatory disease conditions contemplated by the present invention include but are not limited to those disease and disorders which result in a response of redness swelling pain and a feeling of heat in certain areas that is meant to protect tissues affected by injury or disease. Inflammatory diseases which can be treated using the methods of the present invention include without being limited to acne angina arthritis aspiration pneumonia disease empyema gastroenteritis inflammation intestinal flu NEC necrotizing enterocolitis pelvic inflammatory disease pharyngitis HD pleurisy raw throat redness rubor sore throat stomach flu and urinary tract infections Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyradiculoneuropathy Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyradiculoneuropathy.

Cancer therapy also is somewhat dependent on CMI. Cancers contemplated herein include a group of diseases and disorders that are characterized by uncontrolled cellular growth e.g. formation of tumor without any differentiation of those cells into specialized and different cells. Such diseases and disorders include ABL1 protooncogene AIDS Related Cancers Acoustic Neuroma Acute Lymphocytic Leukaemia Acute Myeloid Leukaemia Adenocystic carcinoma Adrenocortical Cancer Agnogenic myeloid metaplasia Alopecia Alveolar soft part sarcoma Anal cancer Angiosarcoma Aplastic Anaemia Astrocytoma Ataxia telangiectasia Basal Cell Carcinoma Skin Bladder Cancer Bone Cancers Bowel cancer Brain Stem Glioma Brain and CNS Tumours Breast Cancer CNS tumours Carcinoid Tumours Cervical Cancer Childhood Brain Tumours Childhood Cancer Childhood Leukaemia Childhood Soft Tissue Sarcoma Chondrosarcoma Choriocarcinoma Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia Chronic Myeloid Leukaemia Colorectal Cancers Cutaneous T Cell Lymphoma Dermatofibrosarcoma provesselrans Desmoplastic Small Round Cell Tumour Ductal Carcinoma Endocrine Cancers Endometrial Cancer Ependymoma Esophageal Cancer Ewing s Sarcoma Extra Hepatic Bile Duct Cancer Eye Cancer Eye Melanoma Retinoblastoma Fallopian Vessel cancer Fanconi Anaemia Fibrosarcoma Gall Bladder Cancer Gastric Cancer Gastrointestinal Cancers Gastrointestinal Carcinoid Tumour Genitourinary Cancers Germ Cell Tumours Gestational Trophoblastic Disease Glioma Gynaecological Cancers Haematological Malignancies Hairy Cell Leukaemia Head and Neck Cancer Hepatocellular Cancer Hereditary Breast Cancer Histiocytosis Hodgkin s Disease Human Papillomavirus Hydatidiform mole Hypercalcemia Hypopharynx Cancer IntraOcular Melanoma Islet cell cancer Kaposi s sarcoma Kidney Cancer Langerhan s Cell Histiocytosis Laryngeal Cancer Leiomyosarcoma Leukaemia Li Fraumeni Syndrome Lip Cancer Liposarcoma Liver Cancer Lung Cancer Lymphedema Lymphoma Hodgkin s Lymphoma Non Hodgkin s Lymphoma Male Breast Cancer Malignant Rhabdoid Tumour of Kidney Medulloblastoma Melanoma Merkel Cell Cancer Mesothelioma Metastatic Cancer Mouth Cancer Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Mycosis Fungoides Myelodysplastic Syndromes Myeloma Myeloproliferative Disorders Nasal Cancer Nasopharyngeal Cancer Nephroblastoma Neuroblastoma Neurofibromatosis Nijmegen Breakage Syndrome Non Melanoma Skin Cancer Non Small Cell Lung Cancer NSCLC Ocular Cancers Oesophageal Cancer Oral cavity Cancer Oropharynx Cancer Osteosarcoma Ostomy Ovarian Cancer Pancreas Cancer Paranasal Cancer Parathyroid Cancer Parotid Gland Cancer Penile Cancer Peripheral Neuroectodermal Tumours Pituitary Cancer Polycythemia vera Prostate Cancer Rare cancers and associated disorders Renal Cell Carcinoma Retinoblastoma Rhabdomyosarcoma Rothmund Thomson Syndrome Salivary Gland Cancer Sarcoma Schwannoma Sezary syndrome Skin Cancer Small Cell Lung Cancer SCLC Small Intestine Cancer Soft Tissue Sarcoma Spinal Cord Tumours Squamous Cell Carcinoma skin Stomach Cancer Synovial sarcoma Testicular Cancer Thymus Cancer Thyroid Cancer Transitional Cell Cancer bladder Transitional Cell Cancer renal pelvis ureter Trophoblastic Cancer Urethral Cancer Urinary System Cancer Uroplakins Uterine sarcoma Uterus Cancer Vaginal Cancer Vulva Cancer Waldenstrom s Macroglobulinemia Wilms Tumour.

Any of a range of antigens may be tested such as those specific for a particular organism virus autoantigen or cancer cell. Alternatively more general agents may be used to test generic capacity of a cell mediated immune response. Examples of the latter include PPD from and tetanus toxoid. Any peptide polypeptide or protein carbohydrate glycoprotein phospholipid phosphoprotein or phospholipoprotein or non protein chemical agent may be used in the present assay system.

As stated above detection of the immune effector molecules may be made at the protein or nucleic acid levels. Consequently reference to presence or level of said immune effector molecule includes direct and indirect data. For example high levels of IFN mRNA is indirect data showing increased levels of IFN . Assays known in the art for assessing RNA are described for example in Sambrook 3Edition CSHLP CSH NY 2001 and Ausubel Ed 5Edition John Wiley Sons Inc NY 2002.

Ligands to the immune effectors are particularly useful in detecting and or quantitating these molecules. Antibodies to the immune effector molecules are particularly useful. Techniques for the assays contemplated herein are known in the art and include for example sandwich assays ELISA and ELISSPOT. Rapid point of care immunochromatographic devices are also included. Reference to antibodies includes parts of antibodies mammalianized e.g. humanized antibodies recombinant or synthetic antibodies and hybrid and single chain antibodies.

Both polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies are obtainable by immunization with the immune effectors or antigenic fragments thereof and either type is utilizable for immunoassays. The methods of obtaining both types of sera are well known in the art. Polyclonal sera are less preferred but are relatively easily prepared by injection of a suitable laboratory animal with an effective amount of the immune effector or antigenic part thereof collecting serum from the animal and isolating specific sera by any of the known immunoadsorbent techniques. Although antibodies produced by this method are utilizable in virtually any type of immunoassay they are generally less favoured because of the potential heterogeneity of the product.

The use of monoclonal antibodies in an immunoassay is particularly preferred because of the ability to produce them in large quantities and the homogeneity of the product. The preparation of hybridoma cell lines for monoclonal antibody production derived by fusing an immortal cell line and lymphocytes sensitized against the immunogenic preparation can be done by techniques which are well known to those who are skilled in the art.

Another aspect of the present invention contemplates therefore a method for detecting an immune effector in a sample comprising immune cells from a subject said method comprising contacting said sample or an aliquot of said sample with an antibody specific for said immune effector or antigenic fragment thereof for a time and under conditions sufficient for an antibody effector complex to form and then detecting said complex.

A sample includes whole blood. This method includes micro arrays and macro arrays on planar or spherical solid supports.

A wide range of immunoassay techniques are available as can be seen by reference to U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 016 043 4 424 279 and 4 018 653.

The following is a description of one type of assay. An unlabeled antibody is immobilized on a solid substrate and the sample to be tested for the immune effectors e.g. antigens brought into contact with the bound molecule. After a suitable period of incubation for a period of time sufficient to allow formation of an antibody antigen complex a second antibody specific to the antigen labeled with a reporter molecule capable of producing a detectable signal is then added and incubated allowing time sufficient for the formation of another complex of antibody antigen labeled antibody. Any unreacted material is washed away and the presence of the antigen is determined by observation of a signal produced by the reporter molecule. The results may either be qualitative by simple observation of the visible signal or may be quantitated by comparing with a control sample containing known amounts of antigen. This generalized technique is well known to those skilled in the art as would be any of a number of variations.

In these assays a first antibody having specificity for the instant immune effectors is either covalently or passively bound to a solid surface. The solid surface is typically glass or a polymer the most commonly used polymers being cellulose polyacrylamide nylon polystyrene polyvinyl chloride or polypropylene. The solid supports may be in the form of vessels beads spheres discs of microplates or any other surface suitable for conducting an immunoassay. The binding processes are well known in the art and generally consist of cross linking covalently binding or physically adsorbing the polymer antibody complex is washed in preparation for the test sample. An aliquot of the sample to be tested is then added to the solid phase complex and incubated for a period of time sufficient e.g. 2 120 minutes or where more convenient overnight and under suitable conditions e.g. for about 20 C. to about 40 C. to allow binding of any subunit present in the antibody. Following the incubation period the antibody subunit solid phase is washed and dried and incubated with a second antibody specific for a portion of the antigen. The second antibody is linked to a reporter molecule which is used to indicate the binding of the second antibody to the hapten.

There are many variations to this assay. One particularly useful variation is a simultaneous assay where all or many of the components are admixed substantially simultaneously.

By reporter molecule as used in the present specification is meant a molecule which by its chemical nature provides an analytically identifiable signal which allows the detection of antigen bound antibody. Detection may be either qualitative or quantitative. The most commonly used reporter molecules in this type of assay are either enzymes fluorophores or radionuclide containing molecules i.e. radioisotopes and chemiluminescent molecules. Examples of suitable fluorophores are provided in Table 2. In the case of an enzyme immunoassay an enzyme is conjugated to the second antibody generally by means of glutaraldehyde or periodate. As will be readily recognized however a wide variety of different conjugation techniques exist which are readily available to the skilled artisan. Commonly used enzymes include horseradish peroxidase glucose oxidase beta galactosidase and alkaline phosphatase amongst others. The substrates to be used with the specific enzymes are generally chosen for the production upon hydrolysis by the corresponding enzyme of a detectable colour change. Examples of suitable enzymes include alkaline phosphatase and peroxidase. It is also possible to employ fluorogenic substrates which yield a fluorescent product rather than the chromogenic substrates noted above. In all cases the enzyme labeled antibody is added to the first antibody antigen complex allowed to bind and then the excess reagent is washed away. A solution containing the appropriate substrate is then added to the complex of antibody antigen antibody. The substrate will react with the enzyme linked to the second antibody giving a qualitative visual signal which may be further quantitated usually spectrophotometrically to give an indication of the amount of antigen which was present in the sample. Again the present invention extends to a substantially simultaneous assay.

Alternately fluorescent compounds such as fluorescein and rhodamine may be chemically coupled to antibodies without altering their binding capacity. When activated by illumination with light of a particular wavelength the fluorochrome labeled antibody adsorbs the light energy inducing a state to excitability in the molecule followed by emission of the light at a characteristic colour visually detectable with a light microscope. The fluorescent labeled antibody is allowed to bind to the first antibody antigen complex. After washing off the unbound reagent the remaining tertiary complex is then exposed to the light of the appropriate wavelength the fluorescence observed indicates the presence of the antigen of interest. Immunofluorescence and EIA techniques are both very well established in the art and are particularly preferred for the present method. However other reporter molecules such as radioisotope chemiluminescent or bioluminescent molecules may also be employed.

There are a range of other detection systems which may be employed including colloidal gold and all such detection systems are encompassed by the present invention.

The present invention also contemplates genetic assays such as involving RT PCR analysis or other amplification based strategies known in the art to detect RNA expression products of a genetic sequence encoding an immune effector.

In one embodiment PCR is conducted using pairs of primers one or both of which are generally labeled with the same or a different reporter molecule capable of giving a distinguishable signal. The use of fluorophores is particularly useful in the practice of the present invention. Examples of suitable fluorophores may be selected from the list given in Table 2. Other labels include luminescence and phosphorescence as well as infrared dyes. These dyes or fluorophores may also be used as reporter molecules for antibodies.

Any suitable method of analyzing fluorescence emission is encompassed by the present invention. In this regard the invention contemplates techniques including but not restricted to 2 photon and 3 photon time resolved fluorescence spectroscopy as for example disclosed by Lakowicz et al. 72 567 1997 fluorescence lifetime imaging as for example disclosed by Eriksson et al. 2 64 1993 and fluorescence resonance energy transfer as for example disclosed by Youvan et al. 3 1 18 1997.

Luminescence and phosphorescence may result respectively from a suitable luminescent or phosphorescent label as is known in the art. Any optical means of identifying such label may be used in this regard.

Infrared radiation may result from a suitable infrared dye. Exemplary infrared dyes that may be employed in the invention include but are not limited to those disclosed in Lewis et al. 42 2 197 1999 Tawa et al. 488

 Electrical Optical and Magnetic Properties of Organic Solid State Materials IV 885 890 Daneshvar et al. 226 1 2 119 128 1999 Rapaport et al. 74 3 329 331 1999 and Durig et al. 24 5 281 285 1993. Any suitable infrared spectroscopic method may be employed to interrogate the infrared dye. For instance fourier transform infrared spectroscopy as for example described by Rahman et al. 63 6196 1998 may be used in this regard.

Suitably electromagnetic scattering may result from diffraction reflection polarization or refraction of the incident electromagnetic radiation including light and X rays. Such scattering can be used to quantitate the level of mRNA or level of protein.

As is known in the art flow cytometry is a high throughput technique which involves rapidly analyzing the physical and chemical characteristics of particles e.g. labeled mRNA DNA or proteins as they pass through the path of one or more laser beams while suspended in a fluid stream. As each particle intercepts the laser beam the scattered light and fluorescent light emitted by each cell or particle is detected and recorded using any suitable tracking algorithm as for example described hereunder.

A modern flow cytometer is able to perform these tasks up to 100 000 cells particles s. Through the use of an optical array of filters and dichroic mirrors different wavelengths of fluorescent light can be separated and simultaneously detected. In addition a number of lasers with different excitation wavelengths may be used. Hence a variety of fluorophores can be used to target and examine for example different immune effectors within a sample or immune effectors from multiple subjects.

Suitable flow cytometers which may be used in the methods of the present invention include those which measure five to nine optical parameters see Table 3 using a single excitation laser commonly an argon ion air cooled laser operating at 15 mW on its 488 nm spectral line. More advanced flow cytometers are capable of using multiple excitation lasers such as a HeNe laser 633 nm or a HeCd laser 325 nm in addition to the argon ion laser 488 or 514 nm .

For example Biggs et al. 36 36 45 1999 have constructed an 11 parameter flow cytometer using three excitation lasers and have demonstrated the use of nine distinguishable fluorophores in addition to forward and side scatter measurements for purposes of immunophenotyping i.e. classifying particles. The maximum number of parameters commercially available currently is 17 forward scatter side scatter and three excitation lasers each with five fluorescence detectors. Whether all of the parameters can be adequately used depends heavily on the extinction coefficients quantum yields and amount of spectral overlap between all fluorophores Malemed et al. 2Ed. New York Wiley Liss 1990 . However it will be understood that the present invention is not restricted to any particular flow cytometer or any particular set of parameters. In this regard the invention also contemplates use in place of a conventional flow cytometer a microfabricated flow cytometer as for example disclosed by Fu et al. 17 1109 1111 1999.

The assay of the present invention may be automated or semi automated for high throughput screening or for screening for a number of immune effectors from the one subject. The automation is conveniently controlled by computer software.

The present invention contemplates a computer program product therefore for assessing the presence or absence or the level of one or more immune effectors said product comprising 

In another embodiment the program product further comprises code that receives as input information concerning the height of the sample in the test tube. In some embodiments the information identifies a test vessel comprising a sample which has a shape that falls outside one or more pre determined dimensions. In some embodiments information may be in the form of a signal that reports the detection of a sample and the corresponding test vessel in which the height of the sample exceeds at least about 12 mm or other value corrected for different samples. In another embodiment information may be in the form of a signal that reports the detection of a sample in which the height of the sample is less than about 6 mm or other value corrected for different samples.

Still another aspect of the present invention extends to a computer for assessing the presence or absence or level of one or more immune effectors said computer comprises 

A version of these embodiments is presented in which shows a system including a computer comprising a central processing unit CPU a working memory which may be e.g. RAM random access memory or core memory mass storage memory such as one or more disk drives or CD ROM drives one or more cathode ray vessel CRT display terminals one or more keyboards one or more input lines and one or more output lines all of which are interconnected by a conventional bidirectional system bus .

Input hardware coupled to computer by input lines may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example machine readable data of this invention may be inputted via the use of a modem or modems connected by a telephone line or dedicated data line . Alternatively or additionally the input hardware may comprise CD. Alternatively ROM drives or disk drives in conjunction with display terminal keyboard may also be used as an input device.

Output hardware coupled to computer by output lines may similarly be implemented by conventional devices. By way of example output hardware may include CRT display terminal for displaying a synthetic polynucleotide sequence or a synthetic polypeptide sequence as described herein. Output hardware might also include a printer so that hard copy output may be produced or a disk drive to store system output for later use.

In operation CPU coordinates the use of the various input and output devices coordinates data accesses from mass storage and accesses to and from working memory and determines the sequence of data processing steps. A number of programs may be used to process the machine readable data of this invention. Exemplary programs may use for example the following steps 

In the case of CD ROM as is well known coating is reflective and is impressed with a plurality of pits to encode the machine readable data. The arrangement of pits is read by reflecting laser light off the surface of coating . A protective coating which preferably is substantially transparent is provided on top of coating .

The present invention further contemplates kits for assessing the capacity of a subject to mount a cell mediated response according to the methods described herein. The kit is conveniently in compartmental form with one or more compartments adapted to receive a sample from a subject such as whole blood preferably collected by capillary sampling such as by a prick device. Thus in some embodiments the kit comprises a device suitable for capillary sampling such as a device that punctures or perforates the skin to allow bleeding from peripheral capillaries. Containers for receiving a sample may have the same uniform dimensions or they may comprise a plurality of dimensions. In some embodiments the containers for receiving samples are marked or otherwise arranged such that the height of the sample in the containers may be assessed. Containers may also be adapted to contain an anticoagulant where the sample is whole blood with or without a simple sugar such as dextrose to maintain the effective functional capacity of the immune cells.

Generally the kit is in a form which is packaged for sale with a set of instructions. The instructions would generally be in the form of a method for measuring a CMI response in a subject said method comprising collecting a sample from said subject wherein said sample comprises cells of the immune system which are capable of producing immune effector molecules following stimulation by an antigen incubating said sample with an antigen under conditions in which the shape and the sample comprises a dimensions which has been optimised and then optionally measuring the presence or elevation in level of an immune effector molecule wherein the presence or level of said immune effector molecule is indicative of the capacity of said subject to mount a cell mediated immune response.

Conveniently the kit further comprises a capillary sampling device and or an incubator. In some embodiments blood is collected using an about 3 4 mm diameter capillary tube.

In some embodiments the subject from whom the sample is derived is a human subject such as a pediatric adult or geriatric subject. Any animal or bird may be a subject.

Although the illustrated immune effector molecule is IFN other cytokines such as TNF and GM CSF a readily assayed as are components of the complement system perforins defensins cathelicidins granzymes Fas ligand CD 40 ligand exotaxin cytotoxins chemokines or monokines. In some embodiments the immune cells tested are selected from a natural killer NK cell T cell B cell macrophage or monocyte.

In some embodiments the kit comprises an antigen is selected from a self antigen an antigen from a pathogenic organism a metal or inorganic antigen or a tumour antigen or an analog thereof. In some embodiments the antigen is from Mycobacterium such as but in no way limited to ESAT 6 CFP 10 and TB7. In other embodiments the antigen tested is tetanus toxoid TT or purified protein derivative PPD from or

As described in relation to the method the container is selected to provide the optimum sample shape during the incubation step. In some embodiments the incubation container forms a sample height of at least about 4 mm to 6 mm to a maximum height of about 12 mm to 20 mm. In other embodiments a sample height of at least about 6 mm to a maximum of about 12 mm is preferred. In some embodiments the incubation container forms a sample height of 4 mm 5 mm 6 mm 7 mm 8 mm 9 mm 10 mm 11 mm 12 mm 13 mm 14 mm 15 mm 16 mm 17 mm 18 mm 19 mm or 20 mm or an intervening height. In other embodiments the incubation container forms a sample height of 6 mm 7 mm 8 mm 9 mm 10 mm 11 mm or 12 mm or an intermediate height. In relation to the volume of sample in the incubation container in some embodiments the incubated sample has a volume of less than 500 l less than 400 l less than 300 l less than 200 l less than 100 l or less than 50 l. In other embodiments the sample is capillary blood and the incubated sample has a volume of about 2000 l 1500 l 1400 l 1300 l 1200 l 1100 l 900 l 800 l 700 l 600 l 500 l 400 l 300 l 200 l 100 l 50 l or 40 l or an intermediate volume.

In some embodiments the kit comprises reagents for detecting IFN and these include an antibody conjugate for detecting IFN .

The present invention further provides a method of treatment of a subject having a pathogenic infection an autoimmune disorder or cancer or a propensity for developing such a disorder said method comprising assessing the ability of said subject to mount a cell mediated immune response by the method of measuring a CMI response in a subject said method comprising collecting a sample from said subject optionally by capillary sampling wherein said sample comprises cells of the immune system which are capable of producing immune effector molecules following stimulation by an antigen incubating said sample in an incubation container with an antigen under conditions in which the shape of the sample comprises a dimension which has been optimised and then measuring the presence of or elevation in the level of an immune effector molecule wherein the presence or level of said immune effector molecule is indicative of the capacity of said subject to mount a cell mediated immune response and then selecting a suitable therapeutic protocol. In some embodiments the sample is a blood sample. In some embodiments the shape of the sample comprises a height of at least 6 mm to a maximum of about 12 mm. In other embodiments the sample volume is less than 1 mL even preferably less than 0.5 mL including 0.01 mL samples. In some embodiments the subject is a livestock animal or human or avian subject. In further embodiments the incubation container is suitable for maintaining an optimal shape of the sample wherein the shape has one or two or more dimensions selected from i a maximum circular diameter of less than 6 mm ii a height of at least about 4 mm to 6 mm to a maximum height of about 12 mm to 20 mm or iii a volume of less than 0.5 mL and optionally less than 400 l.

In another aspect the present invention provides a method for optimising an in vitro cellular immune response the method comprising i incubating a plurality of cellular samples having a range of different heights or other dimensions in incubation containers wherein the cellular sample comprises cells that secrete an immune effector molecule following stimulation by an agent such as an antigen hapten or mitogen with the agent in vitro for a time and under conditions sufficient for the cells to secrete the immune effector molecule and ii measuring the presence or level of the immune effector molecule from each sample and iii identifying the sample dimension that provides the optimal cellular response. In some embodiments the dimension is the height of the sample in the incubating vessel. In another embodiment the dimension is the volume of the sample in the incubating vessel. In other embodiments the dimension is the maximum circular diameter of the sample in the incubation container.

Whole blood from healthy donors four donors was collected into 9 mL Vacuette Li heparin tubes having a cylindrical shape with 6.6 mm diameter and a U shaped base. Aliquots of 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 and 0.5 mL of blood were stimulated in Vacuette Mini Collect tubes no additive . Blood was stimulated using Tetanus Toxoid and Phytohaemagglutinin P Mitogen . The volume of antigen added to each tube was proportional to the blood volume e.g. 0.1 mL blood was stimulated with 0.01 mL antigen 0.4 mL of blood was stimulated with 0.04 mL antigen.

The IFN responses generated in small volumes of blood were compared with responses generated using 1 mL of blood in a 13 75 Vacuette blood collection tube Control .

Blood was incubated with antigen for between 16 and 24 hours at 37 C. before the plasma was removed for IFN detection QuantiFERON TB Gold ELISA . Only 25 L of plasma was assayed for the 0.1 mL samples due to insufficient sample being obtained.

ELISA testing demonstrated that IFN was produced in volumes of blood as little as 0.1 mL see Table 3 . Within the 6.6 mm diameter vessel results for 0.3 0.4 mL blood in response to antigen were similar to the 1 mL control for each subject in a 11 mm diameter round vessel. Mitogen results were less affected by volumes and were similar from 0.1 mL to 0.5 mL indicating less need to optimise the volume with the container proportions.

In accordance with the present invention optimal cellular responses as measured by cytokine production or further effector mechanisms can be achieved in small volumes such as those obtainable by prick sampling as long as pre optimisation of the vessel is performed once it is realised this is possible the optimisation can be done by one skilled in the art.

Heparinised blood was dispensed into 3 5 mL aliquots in polypropylene tubes. Antigen either human cytomegalovirus CMV or tetanus toxoid tetanus was added to the blood at appropriate concentrations. Each tube was mixed thoroughly and the blood 50 l dispensed into various containers where the volume of blood assumed different heights. Specifically PCR tubes conical to 10 mm height with maximum diameter 5 mm u shaped base minicollect vessels cylindrical with 6.5 mm diameter u shaped based 96 well plate cylindrical with 6.5 mm diameter flat base and 48 well plate cylindrical with 11 mm diameter flat base . The containers were incubated for 20 hours at 37 C. prior to removing plasma 20 l for testing by QFT ELISA which detects the production of IFN using a labelled antibody. In a control experiment 1 mL of blood was incubated in a cylindrical container internal diameter of 10.5 mm flat base and 20 l of plasma tested by QFT ELISA. The results are shown in Table 4 where IFN in IU mL are shown for nil antigen Nil tetanus toxoid TT and cytomegalovirus CMV . Responses of 0.20 IU mL and above Nil are significant. The height of the blood volume and the maximum circular diameter in the different containers is also shown in the Table 4. Strong signal are detected in subjects 1 3 4 and 5 with CMV and or TT for sample heights of 11.5 mm and 6 mm. The signal drops off for CMV as the height goes below 6 mm to 3 mm and then 1.5 mm. Accordingly a 15 l whole blood sample provides a strong signal provided this volume of blood is incubated in an appropriate container providing a sample height of at least about 4 mm.

Capillary blood was collected 150 l by finger prick into a lithium heparin minicollect tube. Small volume 50 l were transferred into three PCR tubes. The PCR tubes were conical having a cylindrical upper portion tapering over 10 mm to a conical base. Antigen being CMV or tetanus toxoid Tetanus or no antigen Nil were added to the tubes which were incubated for 20 hours at 37 C. Thereafter plasma 20 l was removed and tested using QFT ELISA. As shown in Table 5 the positive CMV control subject TR sample generated a significant signal compared to negative controls indicating that the assay can be conducted with volumes as small as 500 of capillary blood.

Heparinised human blood of different volumes was incubated with antigen no antigen Nil tetanus toxoid TT or cytomegalovirus CMV in three types of container providing a blood height of 11.5 mm 18 mm and 6 mm. Plasma was tested in QFT ELISA. The results see Table 6 again show efficacy down to 6 mm. The results also show positive results with the 18 mm conical tube indicating that immune effector molecule are produced at sample heights of above 18 mm however optimum results are achieved between 5 and 18 mm.

The results shown in were retabulated in Table 8 also providing the heights of the various blood samples. Here it can be seen that a reduced signal is produced as sample height increases from 16 mm upwards. The mitogen results have been removed from Table 3 in Table 8 because PHA P is a non specific stimulant whereas tetanus toxoid requires cellular antigen processing and presentation.

Heparinised human blood of different volumes 50 l 40 l 30 l 20 l and 10 l were tested in small PCR tubes providing sample heights of 6 mm 5.5 mm 5 mm 4 mm and 2.5 mm respectively. Antigens were no antigen N tetanus toxoid TT and cytomegalovirus CMV at appropriate concentration. Blood was incubated at 37 C. for 20 hours and plasma removed for testing by QFT ELISA. A control experiment Table 7 Continued using 1 mL cultures used small volumes of plasma 50 l 40 l 30 l 20 l 15 l 10 l and 5 l to test by QFT ELISA. The results shown in Table 7 show a positive signal down to 20 l of blood with a height of 4 mm although optimum results were found at 5.5 and 6 mm.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention described herein is susceptible to variations and modifications other than those specifically described. It is to be understood that the invention includes all such variations and modifications. The invention also includes all of the steps features compositions and compounds referred to or indicated in this specification individually or collectively and any and all combinations of any two or more of said steps or features.

