---

title: Attribute segments and data table bias reduction
abstract: The present invention provides a method for updating data sources. The method may include identifying a plurality of data sources, identifying a plurality of overlapping attribute segments to use for comparing the data sources, calculating a factor as a function of each of the plurality of overlapping attribute segments, and using the factors to update a first group of values in the second data source to reduce bias. Further, at least a first data source is more accurate than a second data source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07949639&OS=07949639&RS=07949639
owner: SymphonyIRI Group, Inc.
number: 07949639
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080129
---
This application is a continuation in part of the following applications each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 021 263 filed Jan. 28 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Prov. App. No. 60 886 798 filed on Jan. 26 2007 and U.S. Prov. App. No. 60 886 801 filed Jan. 26 2007 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 783 323 filed Feb. 20 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 873 529.

This application claims the benefit of the following provisional applications each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety U.S. Prov. App. No. 60 887 122 filed Jan. 29 2007 U.S. Prov. App. No. 60 891 933 filed Feb. 27 2007 U.S. Prov. App. No. 60 979 305 filed Oct. 11 2007 and U.S. Prov. App. No. 60 891 507 filed Feb. 24 2007.

This application is a continuation in part of the following U.S. patent application which is incorporated by reference in its entirety application Ser. No. 10 783 323 filed on Feb. 20 2004 and entitled System and Method for Analyzing and Correcting Retail Data. 

This invention relates to methods and systems for analyzing data and more particularly to methods and systems for analyzing data associated with the sales and marketing efforts of enterprises.

Currently there exists a large variety of data sources such as panel data obtained from the inputs of consumers who are members of panels fact data relating to products sales and many other facts associated with the sales and marketing efforts of an enterprise and dimension data relating to dimensions along which an enterprise wishes to understand data such as in order to analyze consumer behaviors to predict likely outcomes of decisions relating to an enterprise s activities and to project from sample sets of data to a larger universe. Conventional systems typically analyze data obtained from different sources separately. While each data type may provide an opportunity to analyze a particular aspect of consumer behavior the utility of any single data type has inherent limitations.

Information systems are a significant bottle neck for market analysis activities. The architecture of information systems is often not designed to provide on demand flexible access integration at a very granular level or many other critical capabilities necessary to support growth. Thus information systems are counter productive to growth. Hundreds of market and consumer databases make it very difficult to manage or integrate data. For example there may be a separate database for each data source hierarchy and other data characteristics relevant to market analysis. Different market views and product hierarchies proliferate among manufacturers and retailers. Restatements of data hierarchies waste precious time and are very expensive. Navigation from among views of data such as from global views to regional to neighborhood to store views is virtually impossible because there are different hierarchies used to store data from global to region to neighborhood to store level data. Analyses and insights often take weeks or months or they are never produced. Insights are often sub optimal because of silo driven narrowly defined ad hoc analysis projects. Reflecting the ad hoc nature of these analytic projects are the analytic tools and infrastructure developed to support them. Currently market analysis business intelligence and the like often use rigid data cubes that may include hundreds of databases that are impossible to integrate. These systems may include hundreds of views hierarchies clusters and so forth each of which is associated with its own rigid data cube. This may make it almost impossible to navigate from global uses that are used for example to develop overall company strategy down to specific program implementation or customer driven uses. These ad hoc analytic tools and infrastructure are fragmented and disconnected.

In sum there are many problems associated with the data used for market analysis and there is a need for a flexible extendable analytic platform the architecture for which is designed to support a broad array of evolving market analysis needs. Furthermore there is a need for better business intelligence in order to accelerate revenue growth make business intelligence more customer driven to gain insights about markets in a more timely fashion and a need for data projection and release methods and systems that provide improved dimensional flexibility reduced query time computational complexity automatic selection and blending of projection methodologies and flexibly applied releasability rules.

In embodiments the present invention provides a method for updating data sources. The method may include identifying a plurality of data sources identifying a plurality of overlapping attribute segments to use for comparing the data sources calculating a factor as a function of each of the plurality of overlapping attribute segments and using the factors to update a first group of values in the second data source to reduce bias. Further at least a first data source may be more accurate than a second data source.

In embodiments the data source may be a fact data source. Further the fact data source may be a retail sales dataset a point of sale dataset a syndicated casual dataset an internal shipment dataset an internal financial dataset a syndicated sales dataset and the like. The syndicated sales dataset may further be a scanner dataset an audit dataset a combined scanner audit dataset and the like.

In embodiments the plurality of overlapping attribute segments may include a product attribute a consumer attribute and the like. The product attribute may be a nutritional level a brand a product category and physical attributes such as flavor scent packaging type product launch date display location and the like. The product attribute may be based at least in on a SKU.

In embodiments the consumer attribute may include a consumer geography a consumer category such as a core account shopper a non core account shopper a top spending shopper and the like a consumer demographic a consumer behavior a consumer life stage a retailer specific customer attribute an ethnicity an income level presence of a child age of a child marital status education level job status job type pet ownership status health status wellness status media usage type media usage level technology usage type technology usage level household member attitude a user created custom consumer attribute and the like.

These and other systems methods objects features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment and the drawings. Capitalized terms used herein such as relating to titles of data objects tables or the like should be understood to encompass other similar content or features performing similar functions except where the context specifically limits such terms to the use herein.

An aspect of the present invention includes an analytic platform that may be used to create an integrated actionable view of consumers consumer behavior commodity sales and other commercial activities such as the relationship between consumers and stores and the like. Currently there exists a large variety of data sources such as panel data sources fact data sources and dimension data sources from which commercial activities such as consumer behaviors may be analyzed projected and used to better understand and predict commercial behavior. Available datasets may include retailer point of sale data loyalty data panel data e.g. consumer network panel data custom research data attitude data usage data permission based marketing data manufacturer data third party data scan key data or some other type of data associated with consumer behaviors. Each data type may provide an opportunity to analyze a particular aspect of consumer behavior. In an example retailer point of sale data may be analyzed to see which products are purchased where they are purchased when the purchases took place and so forth. While each data type has value its utility may be limited to the confines of its derivation. What is needed are methods and systems that provide a means for combining aggregating fusing blending and reconfiguring multiple data types and sources into new hybrid or fused datasets that may through analysis yield new statistical inferences and projections of consumer behavior that may not be obtained through the use of the individual data types in isolation. The architecture of the analytic platform illustrated in may be used to run such methodologies and achieve these analytic objectives.

The methods and systems disclosed herein include in certain embodiments methods and systems for combining representations of raw data computing hardware and an analytic engine with a data management hub that is capable of handling disaggregated data and performing aggregation calculation functions and real time or quasi real time projections. The methods and systems reduce the reliance on fixed form datasets and add flexibility into the datasets such that the calculations and projections can be done in a fraction of the time as compared with older generation systems. In embodiments data compression and aggregations of data may be done in conjunction with a user query such that the aggregation dataset can be specifically generated in a form most applicable for generating calculations and projections based on the query. In embodiments data compression and aggregations of data may be done prior to in anticipation of and or following a query. In embodiments an analytic platform described in more detail below may calculate projections and other solutions dynamically and create hierarchical data structures with custom dimensions that facilitate the analysis. Such methods and systems may be used to process POS data retail information geography information causal information survey information census data and other forms of data and form assessments of past performance e.g. estimating the past sales of a certain product within a certain geographical region over a certain period of time or projections of future results e.g. estimating the future or expected sales of a certain product within a certain geographical region over a certain period of time .

Referring to the methods and systems disclosed herein are related to improved methods for handling and using data and metadata for the benefit of an enterprise. An analytic platform may support and include such improved methods and systems. The analytic platform may include in certain embodiments a range of hardware systems software modules data storage facilities application programming interfaces human readable interfaces and methodologies as well as a range of applications solutions products and methods that use various outputs of the analytic platform as more particularly detailed herein other embodiments of which would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art and are encompassed herein. Among other components the analytic platform includes methods and systems for providing various representations of data and metadata methodologies for acting on data and metadata an analytic engine and a data management facility that is capable of handling disaggregated data and performing aggregation calculations functions and real time or quasi real time projections. In certain embodiments the methods and systems enable much more rapid and flexible manipulation of data sets so that certain calculations and projections can be done in a fraction of the time as compared with older generation systems.

In embodiments data compression and aggregations of data such as fact data sources and dimension data sources may be performed in conjunction with a user query such that the aggregation dataset can be specifically generated in a form most applicable for generating calculations and projections based on the query. In embodiments data compression and aggregations of data may be done prior to in anticipation of and or following a query. In embodiments an analytic platform described in more detail below may calculate projections and other solutions dynamically and create hierarchical data structures with custom dimensions that facilitate the analysis. Such methods and systems may be used to process point of sale POS data retail information geography information causal information survey information census data and other forms of data and forms of assessments of past performance e.g. estimating the past sales of a certain product within a certain geographical region over a certain period of time or projections of future results e.g. estimating the future or expected sales of a certain product within a certain geographical region over a certain period of time . In turn various estimates and projections can be used for various purposes of an enterprise such as relating to purchasing supply chain management handling of inventory pricing decisions the planning of promotions marketing plans financial reporting and many others.

Referring still to an analytic platform is illustrated that may be used to analyze and process data in a disaggregated or aggregated format including without limitation dimension data defining the dimensions along which various items are measured and factual data about the facts that are measured with respect to the dimensions. Factual data may come from a wide variety of sources and be of a wide range of types such as traditional periodic point of sale POS data causal data such as data about activities of an enterprise such as in store promotions that are posited to cause changes in factual data household panel data frequent shopper program information daily weekly or real time POS data store database data store list files stubs dictionary data product lists as well as custom and traditional audit data. Further extensions into transaction level data RFID data and data from non retail industries may also be processed according to the methods and systems described herein.

In embodiments a data loading facility may be used to extract data from available data sources and load them to or within the analytic platform for further storage manipulation structuring fusion analysis retrieval querying and other uses. The data loading facility may have the a plurality of responsibilities that may include eliminating data for non releasable items providing correct venue group flags for a venue group feeding a core information matrix with relevant information such as and without limitation statistical metrics or the like. In an embodiment the data loading facility eliminate non related items. Available data sources may include a plurality of fact data sources and a plurality of dimension data sources . Fact data sources may include for example facts about sales volume dollar sales distribution price POS data loyalty card transaction files sales audit files retailer sales data and many other fact data sources containing facts about the sales of the enterprise as well as causal facts such as facts about activities of the enterprise in store promotion audits electronic pricing and or promotion files feature ad coding files or others that tend to influence or cause changes in sales or other events such as facts about in store promotions advertising incentive programs and the like. Other fact data sources may include custom shelf audit files shipment data files media data files explanatory data e.g. data regarding weather attitudinal data or usage data. Dimension data sources may include information relating to any dimensions along which an enterprise wishes to collect data such as dimensions relating to products sold e.g. attribute data relating to the types of products that are sold such as data about UPC codes product hierarchies categories brands sub brands SKUs and the like venue data e.g. store chain region country etc. time data e.g. day week quad week quarter 12 week etc. geographic data including breakdowns of stores by city state region country or other geographic groupings consumer or customer data e.g. household individual demographics household groupings etc. and other dimension data sources . While embodiments disclosed herein relate primarily to the collection of sales and marketing related facts and the handling of dimensions related to the sales and marketing activities of an enterprise it should be understood that the methods and systems disclosed herein may be applied to facts of other types and to the handling of dimensions of other types such as facts and dimensions related to manufacturing activities financial activities information technology activities media activities supply chain management activities accounting activities political activities contracting activities and many others.

In an embodiment the analytic platform comprises a combination of data technologies methods and delivery mechanisms brought together by an analytic engine. The analytic platform may provide a novel approach to managing and integrating market and enterprise information and enabling predictive analytics. The analytic platform may leverage approaches to representing and storing the base data so that it may be consumed and delivered in real time with flexibility and open integration. This representation of the data when combined with the analytic methods and techniques and a delivery infrastructure may minimize the processing time and cost and maximize the performance and value for the end user. This technique may be applied to problems where there may be a need to access integrated views across multiple data sources where there may be a large multi dimensional data repository against which there may be a need to rapidly and accurately handle dynamic dimensionality requests with appropriate aggregations and projections where there may be highly personalized and flexible real time reporting analysis and forecasting capabilities required where there may be a need to tie seamlessly and on the fly with other enterprise applications via web services such as to receive a request with specific dimensionality apply appropriate calculation methods perform and deliver an outcome e.g. dataset coefficient etc. and the like.

The analytic platform may provide innovative solutions to application partners including on demand pricing insights emerging category insights product launch management loyalty insights daily data out of stock insights assortment planning on demand audit groups neighborhood insights shopper insights health and wellness insights consumer tracking and targeting and the like.

A decision framework may enable new revenue and competitive advantages to application partners by brand building product innovation consumer centric retail execution consumer and shopper relationship management and the like. Predictive planning and optimization solutions automated analytics and insight solutions and on demand business performance reporting may be drawn from a plurality of sources such as InfoScan total C scan daily data panel data retailer direct data SAP consumer segmentation consumer demographics FSP loyalty data data provided directly for customers or the like.

The analytic platform may have advantages over more traditional federation consolidation approaches requiring fewer updates in a smaller portion of the process. The analytic platform may support greater insight to users and provide users with more innovative applications. The analytic platform may provide a unified reporting and solutions framework providing on demand and scheduled reports in a user dashboard with summary views and graphical dial indicators as well as flexible formatting options. Benefits and products of the analytic platform may include non additive measures for custom product groupings elimination of restatements to save significant time and effort cross category visibility to spot emerging trends provide a total market picture for faster competitor analysis provide granular data on demand to view detailed retail performance provide attribute driven analysis for market insights and the like.

The analytic capabilities of the present invention may provide for on demand projection on demand aggregation multi source master data management and the like. On demand projection may be derived directly for all possible geographies store and demographic attributes per geography or category with built in dynamic releasability controls and the like. On demand aggregation may provide both additive and non additive measures provide custom groups provide cross category or geography analytics and the like. Multi source master data management may provide management of dimension member catalogue and hierarchy attributes processing of raw fact data that may reduce harmonization work to attribute matching product and store attributes stored relationally with data that may be extended independently of fact data and used to create additional dimensions and the like.

In addition the analytic platform may provide flexibility while maintaining a structured user approach. Flexibility may be realized with multiple hierarchies applied to the same database the ability to create new custom hierarchies and views rapid addition of new measures and dimensions and the like. The user may be provided a structured approach through publishing and subscribing reports to a broader user base by enabling multiple user classes with different privileges providing security access and the like. The user may also be provided with increased performance and ease of use through leading edge hardware and software and web application for integrated analysis.

In embodiments the data available within a fact data source and a dimension data source may be linked such as through the use of a key. For example key based fusion of fact and dimension data may occur by using a key such as using the Abilitec Key software product offered by Acxiom in order to fuse multiple sources of data. For example such a key can be used to relate loyalty card data e.g. Grocery Store loyalty card Grocery Store loyalty card and Convenience Store loyalty card that are available for a single customer so that the fact data from multiple sources can be used as a fused data source for analysis on desirable dimensions. For example an analyst might wish to view time series trends in the dollar sales allotted by the customer to each store within a given product category.

In embodiments the data loading facility may comprise any of a wide range of data loading facilities including or using suitable connectors bridges adaptors extraction engines transformation engines loading engines data filtering facilities data cleansing facilities data integration facilities or the like of the type known to those of ordinary skill in the art. In various embodiments there are many situations where a store will provide POS data and causal information relating to its store. For example the POS data may be automatically transmitted to the facts database after the sales information has been collected at the stores POS terminals. The same store may also provide information about how it promoted certain products its store or the like. This data may be stored in another database however this causal information may provide one with insight on recent sales activities so it may be used in later sales assessments or forecasts. Similarly a manufacturer may load product attribute data into yet another database and this data may also be accessible for sales assessment or projection analysis. For example when making such analysis one may be interested in knowing what categories of products sold well or what brand sold well. In this case the causal store information may be aggregated with the POS data and dimension data corresponding to the products referred to in the POS data. With this aggregation of information one can make an analysis on any of the related data.

Referring still to data that is obtained by the data loading facility may be transferred to a plurality of facilities within the analytic platform including the data mart . In embodiments the data loading facility may contain one or more interfaces by which the data loaded by the data loading facility may interact with or be used by other facilities within the platform or external to the platform. Interfaces to the data loading facility may include human readable user interfaces application programming interfaces APIs registries or similar facilities suitable for providing interfaces to services in a services oriented architecture connectors bridges adaptors bindings protocols message brokers extraction facilities transformation facilities loading facilities and other data integration facilities suitable for allowing various other entities to interact with the data loading facility . The interfaces may support interactions with the data loading facility by applications solutions reporting facilities analyses facilities services or other entities external to or internal to an enterprise. In embodiments these interfaces are associated with interfaces to the platform but in other embodiments direct interfaces may exist to the data loading facility either by other components of the platform or by external entities.

Referring still to in embodiments the data mart facility may be used to store data loaded from the data loading facility and to make the data loaded from the data loading facility available to various other entities in or external to the platform in a convenient format. Within the data mart facilities may be present to further store manipulate structure subset merge join fuse or perform a wide range of data structuring and manipulation activities. The data mart facility may also allow storage manipulation and retrieval of metadata and perform activities on metadata similar to those disclosed with respect to data. Thus the data mart facility may allow storage of data and metadata about facts including sales facts causal facts and the like and dimension data as well as other relevant data and metadata. In embodiments the data mart facility may compress the data and or create summaries in order to facilitate faster processing by other of the applications within the platform e.g. the analytic server . In embodiments the data mart facility may include various methods components modules systems sub systems features or facilities associated with data and metadata.

In certain embodiments the data mart facility may contain one or more interfaces not shown on by which the data loaded by the data mart facility may interact with or be used by other facilities within the platform or external to the platform. Interfaces to the data mart facility may include human readable user interfaces application programming interfaces APIs registries or similar facilities suitable for providing interfaces to services in a services oriented architecture connectors bridges adaptors bindings protocols message brokers extraction facilities transformation facilities loading facilities and other data integration facilities suitable for allowing various other entities to interact with the data mart facility . These interfaces may comprise interfaces to the platform as a whole or may be interfaces associated directly with the data mart facility itself such as for access from other components of the platform or for access by external entities directly to the data mart facility . The interfaces may support interactions with the data mart facility by applications solutions reporting facilities analyses facilities services each of which is describe in greater detail herein or other entities external to or internal to an enterprise.

In certain optional embodiments the security facility may be any hardware or software implementation process procedure or protocol that may be used to block limit filter or alter access to the data mart facility and or any of the facilities within the data mart facility by a human operator a group of operators an organization software program bot virus or some other entity or program. The security facility may include a firewall an anti virus facility a facility for managing permission to store manipulate and or retrieve data or metadata a conditional access facility a logging facility a tracking facility a reporting facility an asset management facility an intrusion detection facility an intrusion prevention facility or other suitable security facility.

Still referring to the analytic platform may include an analytic engine . The analytic engine may be used to build and deploy analytic applications or solutions or undertake analytic methods based upon the use of a plurality of data sources and data types. Among other things the analytic engine may perform a wide range of calculations and data manipulation steps necessary to apply models such as mathematical and economic models to sets of data including fact data dimension data and metadata. The analytic engine may be associated with an interface such as any of the interfaces described herein.

The analytic engine may interact with a model storage facility which may be any facility for generating models used in the analysis of sets of data such as economic models econometric models forecasting models decision support models estimation models projection models and many others. In embodiments output from the analytic engine may be used to condition or refine models in the model storage thus there may be a feedback loop between the two where calculations in the analytic engine are used to refine models managed by the model storage facility .

In embodiments a security facility of the analytic engine may be the same or similar to the security facility associated with the data mart facility as described herein. Alternatively the security facility associated with the analytic engine may have features and rules that are specifically designed to operate within the analytic engine .

As illustrated in the analytic platform may contain a master data management hub MDMH . In embodiments the MDMH may serve as a central facility for handling dimension data used within the analytic platform such as data about products stores venues geographies time periods and the like as well as various other dimensions relating to or associated with the data and metadata types in the data sources the data loading facility the data mart facility the analytic engine the model storage facility or various applications solutions reporting facilities analytic facilities or services that interact with the analytic platform . The MDMH may in embodiments include a security facility an interface a data loader a data manipulation and structuring facility and one or more staging tables . The data loader may be used to receive data. Data may enter the MDMH from various sources such as from the data mart after the data mart completes its intended processing of the information and data that it received as described herein. Data may also enter the MDMH through a user interface such as an API or a human user interface web browser or some other interface of any of the types disclosed herein or in the documents incorporated by reference herein. The user interface may be deployed on a client device such as a PDA personal computer laptop computer cellular phone or some other client device capable of handling data. In embodiments the staging tables may be included in the MDMH .

In embodiments a matching facility may be associated with the MDMH . The matching facility may receive an input data hierarchy within the MDMH and analyze the characteristics of the hierarchy and select a set of attributes that are salient to a particular analytic interest e.g. product selection by a type of consumer product sales by a type of venue and so forth . The matching facility may select primary attributes match attributes associate attributes block attributes and prioritize the attributes. The matching facility may associate each attribute with a weight and define a set of probabilistic weights. The probabilistic weights may be the probability of a match or a non match or thresholds of a match or non match that is associated with an analytic purpose e.g. product purchase . The probabilistic weights may then be used in an algorithm that is run within a probabilistic matching engine e.g. IBM QualityStage . The output of the matching engine may provide information on for example other products which are appropriate to include in a data hierarchy the untapped market i.e. other venues in which a product is probabilistically more likely to sell well and so forth. In embodiments the matching facility may be used to generate projections of what types of products people customers retailers stores store departments etc. are similar in nature and therefore they may be appropriate to combine in a projection or an assessment.

As illustrated in the analytic platform may include a data aggregation facility . The data aggregation facility may include a data fusion facility. A data fusion facility may be able to fuse blend combine aggregate join merge or perform some other data fusion technique on individual data types and sources such as panel data sources fact data sources and dimension data sources in order to create a super panel dataset that may be used to characterize the 111 million U.S. households at the household level. By fusing multiple data types and sources such as specialty panels loyalty data from retailers and other consumer data sources against a consumer universe framework based upon industry standard population databases such as Acxiom s InfoBase new analyses may be possible that yield new analytic insight into market behavior see . This fusion may be conducted using a data fusion facility and may be done based upon household attributes clusters or at the exact household level via the use of encryption keys. In embodiments an encryption key may be normal obfuscated or irreversible depending on its use and or application. This may extend the utility of available datasets by providing new analytic output and projections that are not derivable from for example panel data alone.

In embodiments the fusion of multiple data types and sources may construct a super panel of U.S. household data through the use of multi level data fusion logic operating within a data fusion facility that may be associated with a data loading facility a data mart an analytic server a MDMH an interface or some other facility. This super panel may be analyzed within the context of a generalized or universe framework within which various data sources measures of for example the timing of product purchases may be aligned compared and merged using the methods and systems of the present invention described herein. In embodiments such super panels or specialty panel datasets may be used in combination with psychographic demographic segmentation schemas to impute household level purchases across the universe of U.S. households. These estimates may then be fused with other data sources for further analysis. For example a data source may provide a household level match. Its estimate may then be blended directly with the initial estimate by using for example an inverse variance weighted approach. If a household level match is not available the initial and the new estimates may be competitively fused along an aggregate of the consumer household venue product time or some other dimension with the subsequent disaggregation of the results via imputation along household attributes clusters. Complementary fusion may be used to fill in voids in the data framework. In embodiments this fusion of datasets may be iterated across data sources at the appropriate levels of aggregation. This may have the effect of creating increasingly accurate estimates at the household level. Household level results may then be aggregated and competed against measures that are available only at aggregate levels e.g. store point of sale data. Examples of data sources that may be fused in this way include loyalty data from one or more retailers custom research data attitude and usage data permission based marketing data or some other consumer or commercial data.

As illustrated in the analytic platform may include a projection facility . A projection facility may be used to produce projections whereby a partial data set such as data from a subset of stores of a chain is projected to a universe such as all of the stores in a chain by applying appropriate weights to the data in the partial data set. A wide range of potential projection methodologies exist including cell based methodologies store matrix methodologies iterative proportional fitting methodologies virtual census methodologies and others. The methodologies can be used to generate projection factors. As to any given projection there is typically a tradeoff among various statistical quality measurements associated with that type of projection. Some projections are more accurate than others while some are more consistent have less spillage are more closely calibrated or have other attributes that make them relatively more or less desirable depending on how the output of the projection is likely to be used. In embodiments of the platform the projection facility takes dimension information from the MDMH or from another source and provides a set of projection weightings along the applicable dimensions typically reflected in a matrix of projection weights which can be applied at the data mart facility to a partial data set in order to render a projected data set. The projection facility may have an interface of any of the types disclosed herein.

In embodiments the analytic platform may enable retailer manufacturer models including but not limited to sharing information related to supply chain forecasting ordering UCCnet related models create share store groups and store clusters and the related attributes and related attributes create share retailer definition of product hierarchies category definitions and related attributes create share retailer shopper group definitions based on demographics and other household attributes collaboration with item master data for purpose of automated item matching and mapping involving a 3rd party to facilitate the mapping through providing a common item master or some other model basis.

In embodiments retailers that provide loyalty data to a market analytic service for analysis may consider themselves at a disadvantage to free riding non participating retailers in that users of the service that have the opportunity to see the participating retailers loyalty data whereas the participating retailers may only see approximations of the non participating retailers data. In theory non participating retailers could use this information asymmetry to their competitive advantage. As a consequence this asymmetry may serve to reduce the appeal of participation.

In embodiments of the present invention methods may be used by which participating retailers loyalty data may be used to enhance the accuracy of the consumer targeting and tracking while obfuscating the disaggregated data in such a way as to remove any advantage that non participating retailers might enjoy. In embodiments there may be varying levels of distortion applied to the data for example aligned with a tiered service offering. Further while a participating retailer s data may be disguised from non participating retailers it may be made available in its most accurate form to the participating retailers and to parties with whom they wish to share it.

As described herein the fusion of multiple data sources e.g. store level POS data household level consumer panel data loyalty card data etc. to provide enhanced estimates and understanding of household level purchasing behavior may be dependent upon retailers willingness to share data with an analyst. This may be especially true for the highly granular loyalty data collected by retailers. In order to address the concerns of retailers who feel that participating may place them at a competitive disadvantage versus non participating retailers due to the increased visibility of the participating retailers performance data obfuscation methods may be used.

As background to data obfuscation methods it may be noted that there are two components to the total error in any estimate Total Error Sampling Error Bias 

Sampling errors are those errors attributable to the normal random variation that would be expected due to the fact that by the very act of sampling measurements are not being taken from the entire population. Biases are systematic errors that affect any sample taken by a particular sampling method. The data fusion methods described herein may utilize for example consumer panel and store POS data sources to develop an estimate of household level purchases for the universe of U.S. households where for example the universe may be defined by a data source such as the Acxiom InfoBase. While these approaches may remove much of the bias present the sampling error due to the underlying panel data source may remain. A retailer s loyalty card data may address both of the remaining sources of error in three related ways 1 a retailer s loyalty card data may represent exact measurements of a household s purchases in a retailer s venues subject to certain non compliance issues . Thus the estimated purchases for these household venue combinations may be replaced with the actual purchases 2 by using the data fusion approaches described herein the initially estimated purchases for households may be analytically compared with the households actual purchases to identify quantify and model correct for some or all of the remaining source s of bias. These biases may then be modeled out of the estimated behaviors of households in other non participating retailers thereby improving the accuracy of those estimates and 3 while somewhat related to items and to the extent that the actual purchase data from the loyalty card households may be leveraged for feedback on an initial model s estimates the overall modeling approach may be enhanced and or corrected. A tactical example of this may be the use of household data at an aggregated level as an auxiliary variable against which to adjust the estimates with the potential to reduce the sampling error. In embodiments these three methods may be applied sequentially or concurrently across multiple retailers loyalty data sources.

As shown in an interface may be included in the analytic platform . In embodiments data may be transferred to the MDMH of the platform using a user interface . The interface may be a web browser operating over the Internet or within an intranet or other network it may be an analytic engine an application plug in or some other user interface that is capable of handling data. The interface may be human readable or may consist of one or more application programming interfaces or it may include various connectors adaptors bridges services transformation facilities extraction facilities loading facilities bindings couplings or other data integration facilities including any such facilities described herein or in documents incorporated by reference herein.

As illustrated in the platform may interact with a variety of applications solutions reporting facilities analytic facilities and services such as web services or with other platforms or systems of an enterprise or external to an enterprise. Any such applications solutions reporting facilities analytic facilities and services may interact with the platform in a variety of ways such as providing input to the platform such as data metadata dimension information models projections or the like taking output from the platform such as data metadata projection information information about similarities analytic output output from calculations or the like modifying the platform including in a feedback or iterative loop being modified by the platform again optionally in a feedback or iterative loop or the like.

In embodiments one or more applications or solutions may interact with the platform via an interface . Applications and solutions may include applications and solutions consisting of a combination of hardware software and methods among other components that relate to planning the sales and marketing activities of an enterprise decision support applications financial reporting applications applications relating to strategic planning enterprise dashboard applications supply chain management applications inventory management and ordering applications manufacturing applications customer relationship management applications information technology applications applications relating to purchasing applications relating to pricing promotion positioning placement and products and a wide range of other applications and solutions.

In embodiments applications and solutions may include analytic output that is organized around a topic area. For example the organizing principle of an application or a solution may be a new product introduction. Manufacturers may release thousands of new products each year. It may be useful for an analytic platform to be able to group analysis around the topic area such as new products and organize a bundle of analyses and workflows that are presented as an application or solution . Applications and solutions may incorporate planning information forecasting information what if scenario capability and other analytic features. Applications and solutions may be associated with web services that enable users within a client s organization to access and work with the applications and solutions .

In embodiments the analytic platform may facilitate delivering information to external applications . This may include providing data or analytic results to certain classes of applications . For example and without limitation an application may include enterprise resource planning backbone applications such as SAP including those applications focused on Marketing Sales Operations Planning and Supply Chain Management. In another example an application may include business intelligence applications including those applications that may apply data mining techniques. In another example an application may include customer relationship management applications including customer sales force applications . In another example an application may include specialty applications such as a price or SKU optimization application. The analytic platform may facilitate supply chain efficiency applications . For example and without limitation an application may include supply chain models based on sales out POS FSP rather than sales in Shipments . In another example an application may include RFID based supply chain management. In another example an application may include a retailer co op to enable partnership with a distributor who may manage collective stock and distribution services. The analytic platform may be applied to industries characterized by large multi dimensional data structures. This may include industries such as telecommunications elections and polling and the like. The analytic platform may be applied to opportunities to vend large amounts of data through a portal with the possibility to deliver highly customized views for individual users with effectively controlled user accessibility rights. This may include collaborative groups such as insurance brokers real estate agents and the like. The analytic platform may be applied to applications requiring self monitoring of critical coefficients and parameters. Such applications may rely on constant updating of statistical models such as financial models with real time flows of data and ongoing re calibration and optimization. The analytic platform may be applied to applications that require breaking apart and recombining geographies and territories at will.

As illustrated in such methods and systems may be used to process POS data retail information geography information causal information survey information census data and other forms of data and form assessments of past performance e.g. estimating the past sales of a certain product within a certain geographical region over a certain period of time or projections of future results e.g. estimating the future or expected sales of a certain product within a certain geographical region over a certain period of time . shows a sampling of the possible data types and sources that may be used by the methods and systems of the present invention. shows a generalized data fusion process flow.

Referring to a logical process in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention is shown. The process is shown to include various logical blocks. However it should be noted that the process may have all or fewer of the logical blocks shown in the . Further those skilled in the art would appreciate that the logical process can have more logical blocks in addition to the logical blocks depicted in the without deviating from the scope of the invention.

In embodiments a plurality of data sources may be identified at logical block . The data sources may have data segments of varying accuracy. The data sources may be a fact data source similar to the fact data source . The fact data source may be a retail sales dataset a point of sale dataset a syndicated casual dataset an internal shipment dataset an internal financial dataset a syndicated sales dataset and the like. The syndicated sales dataset may further be a scanner dataset an audit dataset a combined scanner audit dataset and the like.

In embodiments the data sources may be such that the plurality of data sources have data segments of varying accuracy. For example in case the data sources are retail sales datasets for financial year 2006 07 then the retail sales dataset which was updated most recently may be considered as the most accurate dataset. Further at least a first data source may be more accurate than a second data source.

Following the identification of the data sources a plurality of attribute segments that may be used for comparing the data sources may be identified at logical block . For example in case the identified data sources include a retail sales data set and a point of sale dataset. The retail sales dataset may include attributes such as amount of sale retailer code date of sale and the like. Similarly the attributes for the point of sale dataset may be venue of sale retailer code date of sale and the like. In this case attributes such as retailer code and date of sale are overlapping attribute segments and may be used for comparing the data sources.

Further the plurality of overlapping attribute segments may include a product attribute a consumer attribute and the like. The product attribute may be a nutritional level a brand a product category and physical attributes such as flavor scent packaging type product launch date display location and the like. The product attribute may be based at least in on a SKU.

The consumer attribute may include a consumer geography a consumer category such as a core account shopper a non core account shopper a top spending shopper and the like a consumer demographic a consumer behavior a consumer life stage a retailer specific customer attribute an ethnicity an income level presence of a child age of a child marital status education level job status job type pet ownership status health status wellness status media usage type media usage level technology usage type technology usage level household member attitude a user created custom consumer attribute and the like.

Further the overlapping attribute segments may include venue data e.g. store chain region country etc. time data e.g. day week quad week quarter 12 week etc. geographic data including breakdowns of stores by city state region country or other geographic groupings and the like.

At logical block a factor as a function of each of the plurality of overlapping attribute segments may be calculated. Following this the factors calculated at logical block may be used to update a group of values in the less accurate data sources such as the second data source at logical block . This may reduce the bias in the data sources.

The elements depicted in flow charts and block diagrams throughout the figures imply logical boundaries between the elements. However according to software or hardware engineering practices the depicted elements and the functions thereof may be implemented as parts of a monolithic software structure as standalone software modules or as modules that employ external routines code services and so forth or any combination of these and all such implementations are within the scope of the present disclosure. Thus while the foregoing drawings and description set forth functional aspects of the disclosed systems no particular arrangement of software for implementing these functional aspects should be inferred from these descriptions unless explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context.

Similarly it will be appreciated that the various steps identified and described above may be varied and that the order of steps may be adapted to particular applications of the techniques disclosed herein. All such variations and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. As such the depiction and or description of an order for various steps should not be understood to require a particular order of execution for those steps unless required by a particular application or explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context.

The methods or processes described above and steps thereof may be realized in hardware software or any combination of these suitable for a particular application. The hardware may include a general purpose computer and or dedicated computing device. The processes may be realized in one or more microprocessors microcontrollers embedded microcontrollers programmable digital signal processors or other programmable device along with internal and or external memory. The processes may also or instead be embodied in an application specific integrated circuit a programmable gate array programmable array logic or any other device or combination of devices that may be configured to process electronic signals. It will further be appreciated that one or more of the processes may be realized as computer executable code created using a structured programming language such as C an object oriented programming language such as C or any other high level or low level programming language including assembly languages hardware description languages and database programming languages and technologies that may be stored compiled or interpreted to run on one of the above devices as well as heterogeneous combinations of processors processor architectures or combinations of different hardware and software.

Thus in one aspect each method described above and combinations thereof may be embodied in computer executable code that when executing on one or more computing devices performs the steps thereof. In another aspect the methods may be embodied in systems that perform the steps thereof and may be distributed across devices in a number of ways or all of the functionality may be integrated into a dedicated standalone device or other hardware. In another aspect means for performing the steps associated with the processes described above may include any of the hardware and or software described above. All such permutations and combinations are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

While the invention has been disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiments shown and described in detail various modifications and improvements thereon will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the spirit and scope of the present invention is not to be limited by the foregoing examples but is to be understood in the broadest sense allowable by law.

