---

title: Remote sensing of wave heights using a broadband radar arrangement
abstract: A broadband radar arrangement having a radar transmitter and a radar receiver mounted above a targeted water surface to monitor and determine a sea state of the targeted water surface. Spectrally spaced signals are transmitted by the transmitter and received by the receiver, via a direct path and via a forward scattered path off the targeted water surface. An interference pattern of interfering direct path signals and forward scattered signals is used to determine an instantaneous height of the water surface and also to determine the sea state of the targeted water surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07808426&OS=07808426&RS=07808426
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07808426
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080505
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

This application is related to U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 12 152 127 filed on May 5 2008 hereby incorporated by reference entitled Remote Sensing of Wave Heights Using a Narrowband Radar Arrangement by inventor Jerry Rosson Smith Jr.

The following description relates generally to a system and a method for detecting and monitoring a sea state more particularly a system and method for calculating an instantaneous water height and generating a surface water profile using a broadband radar arrangement positioned above a targeted surface.

Surface conditions in open water are monitored for various oceanographic and maritime reasons. The ability to monitor surface conditions from remote locations is particularly advantageous. Various methods of measuring surface conditions such as wave heights and the like are currently available. In terms of remote analysis most methods involve measuring the wind speed remotely or counting transient anomalies such as sea spike statistics to estimate the sea state. It is desired to have a system that remotely and accurately measures wave heights and open water surface profiles. It is also desired to have a wave height and surface profile detecting system that is operable and provides accurate reading in different environmental conditions.

In one aspect the invention is a method of remotely monitoring and determining a sea state. The method includes the positioning of a broadband radar arrangement above a targeted water surface. In this aspect the broadband radar arrangement includes a transmitter and a receiver wherein the transmitter and the receiver are spatially arranged with respect to each other at extreme ends of the targeted water surface. The method includes the transmitting of multiple frequency signals from the transmitter during a predetermined period. The method further includes the receiving of received signals at the receiver during the predetermined period. In this aspect the received signals are a combination of signals transmitted directly from the transmitter to the receiver and forward scattered signals reflected off the targeted water surface. The method further includes the mapping of an interference pattern based on received signals and the determining of an instantaneous surface water height of the targeted water surface based on the interference pattern.

In another aspect the invention is a system for monitoring and determining a sea state. The system includes a broadband radar arrangement above a targeted water surface in which the broadband radar arrangement includes a transmitter for transmitting multiple frequency signals. The broadband radar arrangement further includes a receiver for receiving received signals at the receiver. In this aspect the received signals are a combination of signals transmitted directly from the transmitter to the receiver as well as forward scattered signals reflected off the targeted water surface. The transmitter and the receiver are spatially arranged with respect to each other at extreme ends of the targeted water surface. The system further includes a computer readable medium bearing a program code for monitoring and determining a sea state. The program code includes one or more program code segments for receiving the received signals from the radar receiver for mapping an interference pattern based on received signals and for determining an instantaneous surface water height of the targeted water surface based on the mapped interference pattern.

The radar arrangement is mounted above a targeted water surface for monitoring the surface and determining a sea state of the water surface. The targeted water surface may be part of a large body of water such as an ocean river lake or the like. The radar arrangement may be fixed in a substantially stationary position by bottom mounting. Alternatively the radar arrangement may be mounted on a floating device. Both the transmitter and the receiver may be vertically adjustable regardless of the manner in which the radar arrangement is mounted.

As outlined above in operation the radar transmitter transmits radio signals which are received by the receiver . The radio signals are received via a direct path and also by a forward scattered path off the water surface. As outlined above the radar arrangement includes a modulating device for spectrally varying frequencies at which the signals are transmitted. In one exemplary embodiment the radar arrangement may be a synthesized coherent stepped chirp system that operates in a monochromatic mode by emitting a pulse at different frequencies in the monochromatic mode and measuring the coherent response for each frequency. In this embodiment the transmitter transmits broadband signals in about 225 to about 275 evenly spaced frequencies in the range of about 8 GHz to about 12 GHz. Intervals may be about 50 ms to about 250 ms. In one embodiment the distance R may be about 50 m to about 70 m and the radar transmitter may be positioned at a height Habove the water surface of about 1 m to about 5.5 m above the targeted water surface and the radar receiver may be positioned at height Habove the water surface of about 0.7 m to about 1.8 m. However the distance R between the transmitter and the receiver may be any desired distance provided that the direct path is maintained. Thus R may one or more kilometers long up to about 16 km. When R is about 16 km the heights H H of the transmitter and receiver would be in the order of about 7.5 m to about 30.5 m.

As stated above the signals received by the receiver are then transmitted to the computer . As shown in the received signals at the receiver are a combination of the direct path signals and the forward scattered signals . When the computer receives the signals from the radar receiver the signals are mapped into an interference pattern . An exemplary interference pattern is shown in illustrating an interference between the direct path signals and the forward scattered signals . As will be outlined below based on the interference pattern the computer determines an instantaneous surface water height of the targeted water surface and a surface water profile.

Using a geometric optics scattering model for received field the instantaneous wave height is given by equation 1 

As stated above the computer includes a computer readable medium bearing a program code for monitoring and determining an instantaneous water height and the prevailing sea state. The program code includes one or more code segments for receiving the signals from the radar receiver and for mapping an interference pattern based on the received signals. The code segments also provide for determining an instantaneous water height based on the interference pattern . Equation 1 is the formula used for the calculation of the instantaneous height . In one particular embodiment the instantaneous height is calculated at one or more nulls in the interference pattern . It should be noted that the look down angle is a determining factor in the number of nulls in the interference pattern . Higher look down angles tend to produce a greater number of nulls in the interference pattern . Consequently the look down angle should not be so high that a plurality of indistinguishable nulls is produced. Additionally although nulls may be used for ease of calculation other points in the interference pattern may also be used to determine an instantaneous height . The one or more program code segments also provide for the generation of a surface water spectrum. A plurality of instantaneous height determinations are made in order to properly determine the surface water spectrum.

Step is the transmitting of multiple frequency signals from the transmitter during a predetermined period. As outlined above the arrangement includes a frequency modulating device to produce multiple frequency signals. Step is the receiving of received signals at the receiver during the predetermined period. As outlined above the received signals are a combination of waves transmitted directly from the transmitter and forward scattered waves reflected from the targeted water surface . Step is the mapping of an interference pattern based on received signals. Step is the determining of an instantaneous surface water height of the targeted water surface based on the interference pattern. As outlined above the instantaneous height is calculated using the variables of equation 1 and a plurality of instantaneous heights may be calculated in order to generate a surface profile.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

