---

title: Entity-driven logic for improved name-searching in mixed-entity lists
abstract: According to one embodiment of the present invention, a method for name searching in mixed-entity lists is provided which comprises dividing a mixed list of entities into a plurality of entity-specific lists. A name to be searched is then categorized into a category and a specialized search logic is applied to the name to be searched. The specialized search logic is selected to be adapted to the category and uses a one of the entity-specific lists that corresponds to the category of the name to be searched. A shared search logic may also be employed, which is used for all names to be searched.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09411877&OS=09411877&RS=09411877
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09411877
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080903
---
The present invention relates to techniques for searching a database and more specifically to name searching in mixed entity lists.

There are various techniques for searching for names in structured lists. Many structured lists contain two or more types of named entities such as personal names organization names product names place names and others. Searching such lists may require that the searching and matching logic be expressed in terms of properties common to all the named entity types comprised within the list. For example the common properties may include the characters and or symbols in which they are represented length number of tokens and other such basic properties.

Existing search results typically focus on basic string similarity and token alignment techniques which do not approach the intuitive outcomes produced by humans. In some cases these similarity measurement techniques may be supplemented by use of standard stop word and noise word lists to focus matching and scoring logic on the more meaningful constituent elements in each candidate match name.

Method system and computer program product for database searching is provided. In one implementation the method comprises dividing a mixed list of entities into a plurality of entity specific lists categorizing a name to be searched into a category and applying a specialized search logic to the name to be searched using a selected one of the entity specific lists the specialized search logic corresponding to the category.

Embodiments of the invention provide techniques for name searching which automatically separate a list of mixed named entities into logical sublists each list therefore comprising only one type of named entity. When this preliminary step is taken all matching and scoring logic applied subsequently to each list can be differentiated according to the nature and linguistic properties of the named entities in that list. In a trivial example the term VAN might be considered a noise word when searching in a list of personal names since it occurs commonly as a prefix in many European and North American names. However the same term would be meaningful in a list of organization names where it would indicate a particular type of transportation business.

Thus in accordance with an embodiment of the invention in the above example the mixed named entities may be first separated into separate sublists one sublist containing personal names and another containing organization names. The nature of the name to be searched is then determined. If the name to be searched is an organization name then specialized search logic is used which searches the organization name sublist looking for the word VAN . If instead the name to be searched was determined to be a personal name then the specialized search logic that is used will ignore the noise word VAN and this specialized search logic will be applied to the sublist containing personal names.

In general entity differentiation as a search architecture allows a great deal of additional semantic pragmatic and syntactic evaluation of each candidate name without the drawback of fratricidal outcomes wherein a search technique that improves search results for one type of named entity also degrades search results obtained for a different type of named entity. The effectiveness of the search is improved because the searching and matching logic does not need to be expressed in terms of properties to all the named entities on the original mixed list as required by the prior art.

The advantages of the approach of the present invention may be instanced in a specialized set of matching and scoring techniques that are uniquely applicable to business and other organizational names. In addition to measures based on standard orthographic similarity concepts the invention may automatically identify specific business categories associable with a name which enables subsequent measurement of semantic distance between two intuitively related but orthographically dissimilar names such as JOE S PIZZA PARLOR and JOE S ITALIAN RESTAURANT. As new types of named entities are introduced into a mixed list embodiments of the invention support the addition of a set of entity specific matching and scoring techniques for each without deleterious impact on scoring logic associated with established types.

Referring now to there is shown a system for performing name searching in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The system includes a named entity categorizer a search logic unit and a name to be searched categorizer . The search logic unit includes a shared search logic unit and a specialized search logic unit .

In this embodiment of the invention a two phase process is employed. In the first or preparatory phase the named entity categorizer receives a mixed entity structured list which potentially comprises more than one category of named entity. The named entity categorizer examines each name in the list and automatically differentiates the mixed entity list into a group of subsets or sublists each of which comprises entries representing only one type of named entity. For example there may be separate sublists for personal names business or other organizational names product names and place names.

In the second or search phase the various sublists are provided as input to the search logic unit . Within the search logic unit the shared search logic unit is applied to all types of named entities. The specialized search logic unit is designed to be applied to only a single type of named entity. Various sets of entity specific reference data files are also provided as input to the specialized search logic unit for consideration and evaluation when a named entity of a particular type of category is being evaluated. The last input to the search system is the name to be found which may or may not be identified a priori as being of a particular named entity type.

In cases where the name to be found is not identified the name to be found categorizer is used to categorize the name to be found. Both the shared search logic unit and the specialized search logic unit are then applied to each candidate name in the particular sublist which corresponds to the category of the name to be found. As mentioned above the specialized search logic unit uses the entity specific reference data files when evaluating the name to be searched. In some embodiments the shared search logic unit and the specialized search logic unit may use conventional techniques to identify score and rank a set of candidate match names. In other embodiments specialized matching and scoring techniques that are uniquely applicable to particular categories may be used as discussed above. The resulting candidate match names may then be reported out from the search mechanism as search results .

A name to be searched is received in step and this name may then be classified into an entity type in step . This may be done by the name to be searched classifier . A specialized search methodology may then be selected based on the entity type of the name to be searched in step . In step a sublist having named entities belonging to the class corresponding to the entity type of the name to be searched is identified. It may be noted that an entity may be judged to belong to more than one category and thus may be added to more than one list. For example James Adams DDS might be added to both a personal name and an organization name list with appropriate search logic applying in each case. Similarly a query name like this one could trigger a search of more than one entity type list. Which list s to be searched for any particular query name can be determined by business rules.

In step the previously selected specialized search methodology may then be used to search for the name to be searched in the identified sublist. In one embodiment step may be performed by specialized search logic unit . Entity specific reference data such as the entity specific reference data shown in may be used by the specialized search logic unit in step .

A shared search methodology may then be applied to the name to be searched in step . In one embodiment step may be performed by the shared search logic unit shown in . The results of the specialized search methodology and the shared search methodology may then be used to generate a search output . In one embodiment the search logic unit shown in combines the results from the specialized search logic unit and the shared search logic unit to generate a search result . In some embodiments the presentation layer is dependent upon business rules. There are many possible implementations for example returns could be sorted by the list they were retrieved from results could ignore entity type and be sorted according to relevance only results matching the entity type of the query could be presented or various other rules could be applied.

As can be seen from the above disclosure embodiments of the invention provide techniques for searching for names in structured lists that contain two or more types of named entities. The invention may provide improved effectiveness as measured by precision and recall measures. The present invention avoids the need to express searching and matching logic in terms of properties common to all the named entity types within the mixed entity list as was required by the prior art systems.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in any tangible medium of expression having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any combination of one or more computer usable or computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM an optical storage device a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wire line optical fiber cable RF etc.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present invention is described with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The computer system can include a display interface that forwards graphics text and other data from the communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer not shown for display on a display unit . The computer system also includes a main memory preferably random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory . The secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing for example a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive or an optical disk drive. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a manner well known to those having ordinary skill in the art. Removable storage unit represents for example a floppy disk a compact disc a magnetic tape or an optical disk etc. which is read by and written to by removable storage drive . As will be appreciated the removable storage unit includes a computer readable medium having stored therein computer software and or data.

In alternative embodiments the secondary memory may include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into the computer system. Such means may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such means may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an EPROM or PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to the computer system.

The computer system may also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows software and data to be transferred between the computer system and external devices. Examples of communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port or a PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which may be for example electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path i.e. channel . This communications path carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a phone line a cellular phone link an RF link and or other communications channels.

In this document the terms computer program medium computer usable medium and computer readable medium are used to generally refer to media such as main memory and secondary memory removable storage drive and a hard disk installed in hard disk drive .

Computer programs also called computer control logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the features of the present invention as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor to perform the features of the computer system. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system.

From the above description it can be seen that the present invention provides a system computer program product and method for implementing the embodiments of the invention. References in the claims to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only unless explicitly so stated but rather one or more. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the above described exemplary embodiment that are currently known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are intended to be encompassed by the present claims. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. section 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for or step for. 

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

