---

title: Sector identification using sector parameters signatures
abstract: Systems and methodologies are described that facilitate identifying sectors using sector parameters signatures. The signatures can be generated as a known function of a previous sector parameters signature (or message parameters), system time, and an identifier. In this regard, mobile devices can determine an expected identifier from comparing the sector parameters signature to a sector parameters signature computed based at least in part on the system time known to the mobile device. In addition, the mobile device can utilize a known or an inferred previous parameters signature to determine the expected identifier. Multiple signatures can be evaluated to determine expected identifiers to increase the likelihood of correct identification since the signatures are generated using the known variables along with the identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08737295&OS=08737295&RS=08737295
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 08737295
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081112
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 60 988 631 entitled APPARATUS AND METHOD TO FACILITATE IDLE STATE HANDOFF IN SYSTEMS WITH RESTRICTED ASSOCIATION which was filed Nov. 16 2007 U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 60 988 641 entitled APPARATUS AND METHOD TO FACILITATE CONNECTED STATE HANDOFF IN SYSTEMS WITH RESTRICTED ASSOCIATION which was filed Nov. 16 2007 and U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 60 988 649 entitled APPARATUS AND METHOD TO FACILITATE MANAGEMENT AND ADVERTISEMENT OF NEIGHBOR LISTS IN SYSTEMS WITH RESTRICTED ASSOCIATION which was filed Nov. 16 2007. The entireties of the aforementioned applications are herein incorporated by reference.

In addition this application is related co pending U.S. Patent applications UTILIZING RESTRICTION CODES IN WIRELESS ACCESS POINT CONNECTION ATTEMPTS by Gavin Horn et al. Ser. No. 12 269 611 FAVORING ACCESS POINTS IN WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS by Gavin Horn et al. Ser. No. 12 269 619 UTILIZING BROADCAST SIGNALS TO CONVEY RESTRICTED ASSOCIATION INFORMATION by Gavin Horn et al. Ser. No. 12 269 637 and CLASSIFYING ACCESS POINTS USING PILOT IDENTIFIERS by Gavin Horn et al. Ser. No. 12 269 642 all of which are filed concurrently herewith assigned to the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The following description relates generally to wireless communications and more particularly to identifying access points in a wireless communication network.

Wireless communication systems are widely deployed to provide various types of communication content such as for example voice data and so on. Typical wireless communication systems may be multiple access systems capable of supporting communication with multiple users by sharing available system resources e.g. bandwidth transmit power . . . . Examples of such multiple access systems may include code division multiple access CDMA systems time division multiple access TDMA systems frequency division multiple access FDMA systems orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA systems and the like. Additionally the systems can conform to specifications such as third generation partnership project 3GPP 3GPP long term evolution LTE ultra mobile broadband UMB etc.

Generally wireless multiple access communication systems may simultaneously support communication for multiple mobile devices. Each mobile device may communicate with one or more base stations via transmissions on forward and reverse links. The forward link or downlink refers to the communication link from base stations to mobile devices and the reverse link or uplink refers to the communication link from mobile devices to base stations. Further communications between mobile devices and base stations may be established via single input single output SISO systems multiple input single output MISO systems multiple input multiple output MIMO systems and so forth. In addition mobile devices can communicate with other mobile devices and or base stations with other base stations in peer to peer wireless network configurations.

MIMO systems commonly employ multiple N transmit antennas and multiple N receive antennas for data transmission. The antennas can relate to both base stations and mobile devices in one example allowing bi directional communication between the devices on the wireless network. As mobile devices move throughout service areas cells utilized for communication by the devices can be reselected between one or more access points e.g. macrocells femtocells etc. . This can occur for example where an available access point or serving sector thereof can offer a better signal or service than a current access point. The mobile devices can measure parameters related to one or more cells or sectors such as signal quality service level etc. and rank the cells or sectors according to desirability which can be based on one or more of the parameters. In one example the available access point can relate to a home access point for a given mobile device offering desirable billing coverage service options etc. Accordingly cells utilized for communication can be reselected to the more desirable access point when within a specified range.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with one or more embodiments and corresponding disclosure thereof various aspects are described in connection with facilitating identifying access points or sectors thereof in wireless communication networks. For example a sector parameters signature transmitted by the access points at each sector can be utilized for identification. The signature can be utilized to identify whether sector parameters which are transmitted in a subsequent message have changed but also can be a function of a system time of the access point and the sector identifier. Using the additional parameters mobile devices can determine an expected sector identifier from the signature without having to read a separate sector parameters message. Subsequent sector parameters signatures can be evaluated to further determine a subsequent expected sector identifier. Where the subsequent identifier is substantially similar to the originally determined identifier the mobile device can predict the sector to be that identified by the expected identifiers with high likelihood. It is to be appreciated that additional subsequent evaluations of sector parameters signatures can be made to determine additional expected identifiers where each matched identifier increases the likelihood.

According to related aspects a method for identifying an access point in a wireless communication network is provided. The method includes receiving a first sector parameters signature from an access point based at least in part on a previous sector parameters signature an identifier and a system time of transmitting the first sector parameters signature. The method also includes computing a second sector parameters signature based at least in part on the previous sector parameters signature the system time and a predicted identifier and comparing the first and second sector parameters signatures to determine a match between the identifier and the predicted identifier.

Another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus. The wireless communications apparatus can include at least one processor configured to receive a first sector parameters signature from an access point based at least in part on a previous sector parameters signature an identifier and a system time of transmitting the first sector parameters signature and determine a second sector parameters message using a predicted identifier the previous sector parameters signature and the system time. The processor is further configured to compare the identifier to the predicted identifier to determine a match therebetween. The wireless communications apparatus also comprises a memory coupled to the at least one processor.

Yet another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus that facilitates identifying an access point in a wireless network. The wireless communications apparatus can comprise means for receiving a first sector parameters signature from an access point and means for computing a second sector parameters signature utilizing a known function along with a predicted identifier a previous sector parameters signature and a system time for transmitting the first sector parameters signatures. The wireless communications apparatus can additionally include means for comparing the first and second sector parameters signatures to determine a match between the identifier and the predicted identifier.

Still another aspect relates to a computer program product which can have a computer readable medium including code for causing at least one computer to receive a first sector parameters signature from an access point based at least in part on a previous sector parameters signature an identifier and a system time of transmitting the first sector parameters signature. The computer readable medium can also comprise code for causing the at least one computer to compute a second sector parameters signature based at least in part on the previous sector parameters signature the system time and a predicted identifier. Moreover the computer readable medium can comprise code for causing the at least one computer to compare the first and second sector parameters signatures to determine a match between the identifier and the predicted identifier.

Moreover an additional aspect relates to an apparatus. The apparatus can include a sector parameters signature receiver that receives a first sector parameters signature from a sector generated using a known function based at least in part on a previous sector parameters signature a system time and an identifier. The apparatus can further include a sector identifier determiner that computes a second sector parameters signature based at least in part on the known function utilizing a predicted identifier the previous sector parameters signature and the system time the sector identifier determiner compares the first and second sector parameters signatures to determine a match between the identifier and the predicted identifier.

According to additional aspects a method for indicating access point identification in a wireless communication network is provided. The method can include generating a sector parameters message comprising one or more parameters related to communication in a sector and generating a sector parameters signature based at least in part on the sector parameters message an identifier and a system time. The method can also include transmitting the sector parameters signature over a wireless network to facilitate identification.

Another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus. The wireless communications apparatus can include at least one processor configured to generate a sector parameters message comprising one or more parameters related to communication in a sector and generate a sector parameters signature based at least in part on the sector parameters message an identifier and a system time. The processor is further configured to broadcast the sector parameters signature over a wireless network to facilitate sector related identification. The wireless communications apparatus also comprises a memory coupled to the at least one processor.

Yet another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus that facilitates indicating access point identification in wireless communications. The wireless communications apparatus can comprise means for generating a sector parameters message comprising one or more parameters related to communication in the sector and means for generating a sector parameters signature based at least in part on the sector parameters message an identifier and a system time. The wireless communications apparatus can additionally include means for transmitting the sector parameters signature over a wireless network to facilitate identification.

Still another aspect relates to a computer program product which can have a computer readable medium including code for causing at least one computer to generate a sector parameters message comprising one or more parameters related to communication in the sector. The computer readable medium can also comprise code for causing the at least one computer to generate a sector parameters signature based at least in part on the sector parameters message an identifier and a system time. Moreover the computer readable medium can comprise code for causing the at least one computer to transmit the sector parameters signature over a wireless network to facilitate identification.

Moreover an additional aspect relates to an apparatus. The apparatus can include a sector parameters message generator that generates a sector parameters message comprising one or more parameters related to communication in a sector and a sector parameters signature generator that generates a sector parameters signature based at least in part on the sector parameters message an identifier and a system time. The apparatus can further include a transceiver that transmits the sector parameters signature over a wireless network to facilitate sector related identification.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the one or more embodiments. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and the described embodiments are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more embodiments.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal .

Furthermore various embodiments are described herein in connection with a mobile device. A mobile device can also be called a system subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal wireless communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A mobile device can be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability computing device or other processing device connected to a wireless modem. Moreover various embodiments are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station can be utilized for communicating with mobile device s and can also be referred to as an access point Node B evolved Node B eNode B or eNB base transceiver station BTS or some other terminology.

Moreover various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips etc. optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD etc. smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. EPROM card stick key drive etc. . Additionally various storage media described herein can represent one or more devices and or other machine readable media for storing information. The term machine readable medium can include without being limited to wireless channels and various other media capable of storing containing and or carrying instruction s and or data.

The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA single carrier frequency domain multiplexing SC FDMA and other systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA CDMA2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA. CDMA2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is an upcoming release that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . CDMA2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 .

Referring now to a wireless communication system is illustrated in accordance with various embodiments presented herein. System comprises a base station that can include multiple antenna groups. For example one antenna group can include antennas and another group can comprise antennas and and an additional group can include antennas and . Two antennas are illustrated for each antenna group however more or fewer antennas can be utilized for each group. Base station can additionally include a transmitter chain and a receiver chain each of which can in turn comprise a plurality of components associated with signal transmission and reception e.g. processors modulators multiplexers demodulators demultiplexers antennas etc. as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

Base station can communicate with one or more mobile devices such as mobile device and mobile device however it is to be appreciated that base station can communicate with substantially any number of mobile devices similar to mobile devices and . Mobile devices and can be for example cellular phones smart phones laptops handheld communication devices handheld computing devices satellite radios global positioning systems PDAs and or any other suitable device for communicating over wireless communication system . As depicted mobile device is in communication with antennas and where antennas and transmit information to mobile device over a forward link and receive information from mobile device over a reverse link . In a frequency division duplex FDD system forward link can utilize a different frequency band than that used by reverse link for example. Further in a time division duplex TDD system forward link and reverse link can utilize a common frequency.

Each group of antennas and or the area in which they are designated to communicate can be referred to as a sector or cell of base station . For example antenna groups can be designed to communicate to mobile devices in a sector of the areas covered by base station . In communication over forward link the transmitting antennas of base station can utilize beamforming to improve signal to noise ratio of forward link for mobile device . Also while base station utilizes beamforming to transmit to mobile device scattered randomly through an associated coverage mobile devices in neighboring cells can be subject to less interference as compared to a base station transmitting through a single antenna to all its mobile devices. Moreover mobile devices and can communicate directly with one another using a peer to peer or ad hoc technology.

In addition the base station can communicate with a network which can be one or more networks including a wireless service access network e.g. a 3G network over a backhaul link connection. The network can store information regarding access parameters related to the mobile device and and other parameters of a wireless access network to provide service to the devices an . Furthermore a femtocell can be provided to facilitate communicating with the mobile device over forward link and reverse link similarly to forward link and reverse link as described supra . The femtocell can provide access to one or more mobile devices much like the base station but on a smaller scale. In one example femtocell can be configured in a residence business and or other close range setting e.g. theme park stadium apartment complex etc. . The femtocell can connect to the network utilizing a backhaul link connection which can be over a broadband Internet connection T1 T3 digital subscriber line DSL cable etc. in one example. The network can similarly provide access information for the mobile device .

According to an example mobile devices and can travel over service areas performing cell reselection among disparate base stations and or femtocells during travel. In this regard the mobile devices and can effectuate continuous wireless service seamless to users of the mobile devices and . In one example not shown mobile device can have been communicating with the base station similarly to the mobile device and can have moved into a specified range of the femtocell . In this regard the mobile device can have reselected one or more cells related to the femtocell to receive more desirable wireless service access. In one example the femtocell can be a home access point for the mobile device offering more desirable billing and or other access options. In another example the femtocell can be related to a business or venue offering options or data tailored to the respective business or venue. Thus mobile device can reselect one or more cells related to the femtocell in an idle and or connected mode to receive such tailored options. In addition as mobile device moves toward base station it can reselect a cell related thereto for a variety of reasons e.g. to mitigate interference on the femtocell to receive a more optimal signal or increased throughput etc. .

In traveling over the service area mobile devices and or can continually measure available base stations such as base station femtocells such as femtocell and or other access points to determine when cell reselection is beneficial to the mobile devices and or . The measuring can include for example evaluating signal quality throughput services available a wireless access provider related to the access point and or the like. Based on one or more of the measurements the mobile devices and or can rank access points for reselection. Upon determining the ranking the mobile devices and or can attempt cell reselection to the highest ranking access point. In addition the mobile devices and or can maintain a list of accessible access points and or groups of accessible access points. The accessible access points can relate to for example restricted association access points that the mobile devices and or are authorized to access and or to which access is preferred or otherwise favorable over other access points.

In one example the femtocell can be such a restricted association access point. Restricted association access points for example can be restricted in some aspects where each access point provides certain services to certain mobile devices e.g. mobile devices and or but not necessarily to other mobile devices or access terminals not shown . For example the femtocell can be restricted to not provide to the other mobile devices or access terminals registration signaling voice call data access and or additional services. Restricted association access points can be deployed in an ad hoc manner. For example a given homeowner can install and configure a restricted access point for the home.

In one example the mobile devices and or can identify one or more available access points based at least in part on one or more indicators in a broadcast signal related to the access point s . Upon receiving the one or more indicators the mobile devices and or can ensure the access point s is are in the list or that a related group identifier is in the list before attempting cell reselection. In another example the mobile devices and or can verify association of the access point with the list before measuring the parameters for ranking.

In one example the mobile devices and or can determine an identifier of the access points such as base station and or femtocell a related group identifier and or a sector identifier based at least in part on evaluating one or more sector parameters signatures transmitted by the access point over in an overhead broadcast message. For example the base station and or femtocell can transmit a sector parameters signature for a given sector which indicates whether sector parameters have changed with respect to previous parameters. The signature can be generated as a function of a previous sector parameters signature a system time of the access point and an identifier which can be a sector access point and or group identifier. It is to be appreciated that additional parameters can be utilized to generate the signature. The mobile devices and or can receive the sector parameters signatures and compute expected sector identifiers based at least in part on the signature using the system time previous signature a previously received sector identifier etc.

For example the known function for computing the signature can be a hash function a pseudo noise sequence function and or substantially any function that can generate a random or pseudo random sequence of signatures that can be efficiently calculated from a first signature the change in system time since the first signature was seen and the identifier. According to one example the random sequence can be utilized with the signatures to avoid collision among neighboring cells e.g. neighboring cells typically do not advertise the same sector parameters signature very often if they each have a different identifier and each time the signature changes randomly based on the identifier .

According to an example the mobile devices and or can receive the sector parameters signatures regardless of sector identification to determine when sector parameters change for a given sector of the base station and or femtocell . Since the signatures change as a function of time and can be random collision among neighboring sectors can be minimized. The mobile devices and or can analyze multiple signatures for a given sector computing expected sector parameters signatures for each sector where the computed sector parameters signature matches a received signature the mobile devices and or can conclude that the sector is identified. This is so since the signature is a function of the identifier time and the previous signature. Thus collision between received signatures can likely be resolved by computing one or more subsequent signatures and comparing the signatures to those received in the sector. In this regard the mobile devices and or need not receive and evaluate the subsequent sector parameters message comprising the actual parameters to identify the sector access point and or group. In addition sector parameters signatures can be transmitted more frequently than the sector parameters message. Thus evaluating the signatures to identify the sector can conserve time and resources on the mobile devices and or during sector identification for example. It is to be appreciated that substantially any type of identifier can be utilized in the foregoing known function for subsequent interpretation by the mobile devices and or .

Now referring to a wireless communication system configured to support a number of mobile devices is illustrated. The system provides communication for multiple cells such as for example macrocells A G with each cell being serviced by a corresponding access point A G. As described previously for instance the access points A G related to the macrocells A G can be base stations. Mobile devices A I are shown dispersed at various locations throughout the wireless communication system . Each mobile device A I can communicate with one or more access points A G on a forward link and or a reverse link as described. In addition access points A C are shown. These can be smaller scale access points such as femtocells offering services related to a particular service location as described. The mobile devices A I can additionally communicate with these smaller scale access points A C to receive offered services. The wireless communication system can provide service over a large geographic region in one example e.g. macrocells A G can cover a few blocks in a neighborhood and the femtocell access points A C can be present in areas such as residences office buildings and or the like as described . In an example the mobile devices A I can establish connection with the access points A G and or A C over the air and or over a backhaul connection.

Additionally as shown the mobile devices A I can travel throughout the system and can reselect cells related to the various access points A G and or A C as it moves through the different macrocells A G or femtocell coverage areas. In one example the one or more of the mobile devices A I can be associated with a home femtocell related to at least one of femtocell access points A C. For example mobile device I can be associated with femtocell access point B as its home femtocell. Thus though mobile device I is in macrocell B and thus in coverage area of access point B it can communicate with the femtocell access point B instead of or in addition to access point B. In one example the femtocell access point B can provide additional services to the mobile device I such as desirable billing or charges minute usage enhanced services e.g. faster broadband access media services etc. . Thus when the mobile device I is in range of the femtocell access point B it can be reined in to communicate therewith by favoring the femtocell access point B in reselection.

For example mobile device D can be associated with femtocell access point C. As the mobile device D moves from macrocell C into D and closer to access points D and or C it can begin the cell reselection process as described herein. This can include for example measuring surrounding cell parameters e.g. related to access points C D and C to determine a desirable connection. The parameters can relate to for example signal quality connection throughput services offered a service provider related to the access point and or the like. The mobile device D can additionally verify an identifier of the access point as present in a list of accessible access points as described. The list can additionally or alternatively identify groups of access points where a group identifier of the access point can be verified with group identifiers in the list. In the foregoing example the mobile device D can measure parameters for access points C D and C and rank the cells to determine whether to perform cell reselection from access point C to one of the others if their rank is higher. As in the previous example where femtocell access point C relates to a home femtocell of the mobile device D it can favor it for reselection e.g. by evaluating an added parameter offset to increase its value and or hysteresis to decrease parameter values of other access points for example . If one or more of the disparate access points D and or C rank higher than the access point C mobile device D can reselect one or more cells related to the disparate access point D or C whether in an idle or connected mode.

In one example one or more of the disparate access points D and or C can implement restricted association where some mobile devices cannot connect thereto and or the access points D and or C can restrict certain mobile devices with respect to providing signaling data access registration service and or the like. This can be based at least in part on a service provider of the mobile device and the restricted associated access point for example. In another example the restricted association access point can relate to certain mobile devices such as a corporate access point restricting access only to corporate issued mobile devices. Thus if the mobile device D cannot reselect cells related to one or more of the disparate access points D and or C due to restricted association it can attempt cell reselection with one or more of the other ranked access points until it finds an access point to which it can connect. Where the mobile device D cannot connect to access point D and or C due to restricted association it can receive a restriction code indicating the reason for the restriction.

Furthermore as described the mobile devices A I can maintain a list of accessible access points and or groups thereof. In one example the list can include only certain types of access points such as femtocells since other types of access points such as macrocells can be accessible from substantially any mobile device. The list of accessible access points and or groups can be originally populated for example by one or more access points in communication with the mobile device A I which can retrieve the information from an underlying wireless network as described. As the mobile devices A I move throughout the coverage area of the wireless system and reselects cells as described it can first verify the cells as being present in the list where relevant. In one example if the mobile devices A I determine one or more femtocell access points A C to be the highest ranked cell based on measurements as described it can verify that the respective femtocell access point is in the list. If not the mobile devices A I can decide not to attempt access to the femtocell access point and can attempt connection with the next highest ranked access point and or attempt to locate another access point on a disparate frequency.

As described above the access points A G and or A C can transmit sector parameters signatures that indicate whether sector parameters have changed between related messages. The access points A G and or A C can generate the sector parameters signatures as a known function of one or more previous sector parameters signatures system time and an identifier as described for transmission in an overhead broadcast message. Mobile devices A I traveling from sector to sector can receive the sector parameters signatures utilizing the signatures to identify one or more of the access points A G and or A C group or sector thereof and or the like. For example one or more of the mobile devices A I can receive a sector parameters signature from one or more access points A G and or A C and can compute an expected sector parameters signature based at least in part on the known function used for generating the signature. In addition the mobile devices A I can utilize known values and an expected identifier along with the function to determine the signature. The values can include for example a system time as measured by the mobile devices A I and or determined from one or more disparate parameters of the one or more access points A G and or A C. Further the known values can also include the one or more previous sector parameters signatures of the one or more access points A G and or a predicted sector related identifier.

In an example the sector parameters signatures can relate to sector parameters as described in a sector parameters message. The parameters can include for example a network identifier country code location information such as latitude and longitude system time neighbor lists radio access parameters and or substantially any other parameters related to the sector and or access point providing the sector. One or more of the foregoing parameters can be used to calculate a first sector parameters signature and one or more subsequent signatures can then be based on this as well as a function of the system time and the identifier. In this regard knowing the system time identifier signature at a given time as well as the known function one or more of the mobile devices A I can calculate the signature at a future time. Thus in one example the mobile devices A I can have already communicated with or otherwise received parameters related to the access point.

Once computed the one or more mobile devices A I can determine whether conflicting possible identifications are possible for example. If so the one or more mobile devices A I can evaluate a subsequent sector parameters signature from the sector related to one or more access points A G and or A C and compute another expected sector parameters signature using the predicted sector identifier to determine a match. If the expected signature matches the received signature this can increase the likelihood of successful identification since the identifier which can be unique is utilized in generating the signature and the signature can be generated using a random function. It is to be appreciated that the sector parameters signatures can be a data string data structure primitive type etc. In one example the signatures can be a number of bits in a string e.g. a 16 bit string .

In one example the one or more mobile devices A I can compute and compare a number of subsequent expected signatures to received signatures. In this regard a level of threshold confidence of identification can be achieved. In addition the one or more mobile devices A I can utilize the determined sector related identifier in subsequent actions. For example as described the one or more mobile devices A I can utilize the identifier to verify that the one or more access points A G and or A C or related groups are present in a maintained list of accessible access points or related groups of access points. If so the one or more mobile devices A I can initiate communications with reselect one or more cells related to and or camp on the one or more access points A G and or A C. Camping can refer to operating in an idle mode in the sector where the mobile device sleeps and periodically wakes up to receive events such as pages loss of signal measurement of neighboring sectors etc. that can result in switching from the idle mode to an active mode.

Turning to illustrated is a communications apparatus for employment within a wireless communications environment. The communications apparatus can be a base station or a portion thereof a mobile device or a portion thereof or substantially any communications apparatus that receives data transmitted in a wireless communications environment. The communications apparatus can include a sector parameters signature receiver that receives sector parameters signatures from various access points not shown in a wireless network a sector identifier determiner that can determine an expected sector related identifier based at least in part on the computing one or more expected signatures and a sector identifier comparator that can compare the one or more computed expected signatures to the received signature to determine a confidence level with respect to correctly identifying a sector access point related group etc. from the expected identifier. In this regard when the confidence level is above a threshold e.g. two or three compared expected identifiers the communications apparatus can subsequently utilize the expected identifier e.g. to perform cell reselection or otherwise establish communications in the identified access point and or the like as described .

According to an example the sector parameters signature receiver can receive one or more sector parameters signatures transmitted from one or more access points the signatures can be transmitted in an overhead broadcast message such as an extended channel information ECI message in one example. The sector parameters signatures can indicate whether parameters of a sector parameters message have changed with respect to a previous sector parameters message. In this regard the sector parameters signature can indicate that a subsequent sector parameters message should be received to determine the modified parameters. Additionally the sector parameters signature can be generated as a known function of a previous sector parameters signature system time and a sector related identifier such as a sector identifier access point identifier access point group identifier and or the like. The sector identifier determiner can compute an expected sector parameters signature using an expected sector related identifier using the known function and one or more known values. For example using the system time the sector identifier determiner can also provide a previous sector parameters signature or an inferred signature to compute the expected sector parameters signature based on the known function.

The sector identifier comparator can compare the computed sector parameters signature with the received sector parameters signature to determine whether the correct sector related identifier was utilized in the computation. Thus the sector related identifier can be determined without actually reading the sector parameters message or other message to determine such. For example the sector identifier comparator can compare a number of sector parameters signatures generated by the sector identifier determiner with received signatures. In this regard a confidence level of correct identification can be achieved based on the number of correct matches between computed and received signatures as described. It is to be appreciated however that the sector identifier comparator can determine correct identification from one computed sector parameters signature in one example. Since the identifier is used in generating the sector parameters signature and can be unique computing multiple signatures and comparing them to respective received signatures can create a high level of likelihood for correct identification utilizing an expected sector identifier in the sector parameters signature computation. In this regard the communications apparatus can determine a sector related identifier from one or more sector parameters signature without expending the time or resources to actually read the sector parameters message. Utilizing the identification the communications apparatus as described can take subsequent wireless network actions in the sector such as verifying the sector access point and or related group in a list of accessible entities establishing communication in the sector based on the verification reselecting one or more cells of the sector camping on the sector and or the like for example.

Now referring to illustrated is a wireless communications system that facilitates specifying identifiers using sector parameters signatures in wireless communication networks. The wireless device access point and or access point can be a base station femtocell mobile device or portion thereof. In one example wireless device can transmit information to an access point and or over a reverse link or uplink channel further wireless device can receive information from access point and or over a forward link or downlink channel. Moreover system can be a MIMO system. Also the components and functionalities shown and described below in the wireless device can be present in the access points and or as well and vice versa in one example the configuration depicted excludes these components for ease of explanation.

Wireless device includes a sector parameters signature receiver that receives sector parameters signatures from access points an or to facilitate evaluating parameters related thereto a sector identifier determiner that determines an expected sector related identifier based at least in part on comparing one or more computed sector parameters signatures with a received sector parameters signatures an access list controller that maintains a list of identifiers related to accessible access points and or groups of access points and a cell reselector that can perform cell reselection procedures and or establish initial connection with one or more access points. In one example the wireless device can be communicating with access point and the cell reselector can perform reselection to access point as described below in further detail.

The access point comprises a sector parameters message generator that creates a sector parameters message for broadcast over a wireless network to one or more wireless devices such as wireless device . The sector parameters message can comprise information related to a given sector of the access point such as a sector identifier and or additional parameters utilized to communicate in the sector. The access point further comprises a sector parameters signature generator that creates a signature for the sector parameters message. The signature can be generated based on the message and parameters utilized with a previous message so that a wireless device receiving the sector parameters signature can efficiently determine whether the parameters have changed based on a previous signature. In addition as described the sector parameters signature generator can generate the sector parameters signature further based at least in part on a system time and a sector related identifier as described. The message and or related signatures can be transmitted in an overhead broadcast message such as an ECI channel as mentioned.

According to an example the wireless device can be communicating with the access point to receive wireless communication services and moving throughout a wireless network coverage area. The cell reselector can evaluate surrounding sectors operated by disparate access points as the wireless device moves in range by measuring parameters related to the access points such as signal strength services offered identifications data throughput etc. In addition the cell reselector can rank the sectors according to the measured parameters using techniques described above such as offsets and hysteresis related to desirable access points . When a sector ranks above the currently utilized sector the cell reselector can select the new sector and attempt cell reselection thereto. This can occur in an idle state where the wireless device camps on the new sector and or an active state where the wireless device continues communication with the new sector. In addition the cell reselector can be utilized to select an initial sector for communication therewith. Moreover the cell reselector can determine an access point and or group identifier related to an access point that provides the sector from a pilot signal transmitted by the access point . The access point can be verified in a list of accessible access points and or groups via access list controller .

The sector parameters message generator can create one or more sector parameters messages comprising information related to sector communication. In addition the sector parameters signature generator can create a signature as described specifying whether parameters have changes with respect to a previous signature. The cell reselector can evaluate a sector related to the access point for reselection. In this regard the sector parameters signature receiver can receive a sector parameters signature for the access point generated by the sector parameters signature generator and transmitted over the wireless network. Utilizing the known function for generating the signature the sector identifier determiner can compute an expected sector parameters signature based on a predicted sector related identifier a time and a previous signature which can be predicted from expected parameters. It is to be appreciated that the expected parameters can be specified based at least in part on previous communication with surrounding sectors a type of the sector a location and or the like. In addition the sector related identifier can comprise an access point and or restricted group identifier that indicates the access point providing the sector is restricted with respect to signaling data access registration and or service.

As described the sector identifier determiner can compute multiple expected signatures using an expected sector related identifier at different times and can compare the signatures with received signatures to determine a correct identification since the signatures are a known function of an identifier which can be unique a known time and previous signature. Thus a subsequently computed expected signature can increase likelihood of correct identification since the signature can change each time it is received. Once the sector identifier determiner has identified the sector access point group and or the like based on one or more sector parameters signatures to a level of confidence the access point can be ranked in the list of access points for reselection. In one example prior or subsequent to ranking the access point or related sector the access list controller can verify the sector related identifier and or a related group identifier in a list of accessible access points and or groups. If it is in the list and the sector ranks highly the cell reselector can reselect one or more cells in the sector in an active state and or camp on the sector in an idle state. In addition as described the cell reselector can utilize the determined identifier and or other metrics to initially request communication in the sector.

According to one example the sector identifier determiner can determine a number of expected identifiers to compute based at least in part on timing. Thus where the wireless device has a larger amount of time for cell reselection the sector identifier determiner can compute more sector parameters signatures using the expected sector related identifiers for a more confident determination of the actual identifier as the signature can change over time. As mentioned though a collision can occur among sector parameters signatures for multiple sectors since the signature is based on an identifier that can be unique and time the signatures can be different in a subsequent signature transmission. Thus the more signatures that are computed and compared the greater chance of a correct identification. In this regard the wireless device need not read the sector parameters message generated by the sector parameters message generator for the sector which conserves time and resources since the messages are larger and not broadcast as often as the signatures.

Referring to methodologies relating to cell reselection and determining sector related identifiers from sector parameters signatures are illustrated. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance with one or more embodiments occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with one or more embodiments.

Turning to a methodology that facilitates cell reselection in wireless communications is displayed. At surrounding cells are measured to determine one or more parameters related thereto. As described the parameters can relate to communication metrics such as signal strength throughput etc. and or one or more additional considerations such as an access point identifier a group identifier sector identifier services offered a related access provider etc. In addition the parameters can relate to the cell being provided by a home access point which provides enhanced billing aspects additional service or speeds and or the like. The parameters can also relate to offsets or hysteresis to increase consideration of desirable access points such as a home access point for example and or decrease consideration of other access points. At the surrounding cells can be ranked according to the determined parameters. The ranking can indicate an order of desirable cells from which to receive wireless communication services.

At it can be determined whether the highest ranked cell is that currently utilized. Such a determination can be utilized to ensure connection with an optimal access point. If the highest ranked cell is the cell currently utilized to receive wireless communications the method proceeds back to step to again measure surrounding cells. This can be based on a timer in one example as to not flood the network with cell measurements or spend resources by constantly measuring the cells. If the highest ranked cell is not the currently utilized cell at cell reselection can be performed as described herein to reselect the highest ranked cell. It is to be appreciated in one example that once reselection is complete the method in one example can proceed back to step to continue measuring surrounding cells. As described the access points can be base stations femtocells and or the like.

Turning to illustrated is a methodology that facilitates sector identification in wireless networks. At a sector parameters signature is received for a sector. As described the sector parameters signature can relate to specifying whether parameters of a sector parameters message have changed. In addition the sector parameters signature can be generated using a known function of a previous sector parameters signature a system time and an identifier. Thus at a sector parameters signature can be computed from an expected sector related identifier. The known function can be utilized as described where the time is known and the previous sector parameters signature can also be known and or inferred based on previously received signatures related to the access point. In addition a predicted identifier can be utilized as well. In some cases the sector parameters signatures can be utilized for computations with respect to disparate or similar access points.

At it can be determined whether the computed signature matches the received signature e.g. whether the sector related identifier utilized to compute the sector parameters message is correct . As described this can relate to a confidence level and or time available for the identification. Thus if more time is available the method can proceed to to receive and compute an additional sector parameters signature and compute another expected sector parameters message at . In addition where there are multiple expected sector parameters signatures computed the expected signatures can be compared to received signatures at to determine whether the sector access point access point group and or the like have been identified. As described the more matches in expected signatures the better likelihood of correct identification. At the identifier can be utilized in a sector connection procedure. As described this can include an initial connection to the sector a reselection to one or more related cells in an active state camping on the sector in an idle state and or the like. It is to be appreciated that a pilot signal can be evaluated prior to the sector parameters signature to determine whether the access point providing the sector can be accessed according to a maintained list of access points and or groups as described.

Turning to illustrated is a methodology that transmits sector parameters signatures over a wireless network for specifying change in parameters. At parameters of a sector parameters message can be determined. The parameters can relate to communicating in a wireless network e.g. sector identifier access parameters etc. . At a sector parameters signature can be generated based on the parameters a previous signature system time and or an identifier. Thus the sector parameters signature is a known function of one or more of the foregoing variables. As described the signature can be based on the parameters and previous parameters to indicate whether the parameters have changed between related messages. In another example the previous signature can be utilized in the generating the sector parameters signature to indicate a change in the message parameters. At the sector parameters signature can be transmitted over the wireless network to facilitate such identification. It is to be appreciated that the sector parameters signature can also indicate whether parameters in a sector parameters message have changed as described.

It will be appreciated that in accordance with one or more aspects described herein inferences can be made regarding many aspects of cell reselection such as measuring the parameters ranking the cells according to the parameters and or additional parameters and even aspects of actual reselection such as when to perform the reselection etc. as described. As used herein the term to infer or inference refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. In one example inferences can additionally be made in determining parameters of cells during measurement such as identification based on inferring previous sector parameters signatures as described.

Mobile device can additionally comprise memory that is operatively coupled to processor and that can store data to be transmitted received data information related to available channels data associated with analyzed signal and or interference strength information related to an assigned channel power rate or the like and any other suitable information for estimating a channel and communicating via the channel. Memory can additionally store protocols and or algorithms associated with estimating and or utilizing a channel e.g. performance based capacity based etc. .

It will be appreciated that the data store e.g. memory described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory of the subject systems and methods is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

Processor and or receiver can further be operatively coupled to a parameters signature receiver that can receive a sector parameters signature from one or more access points that indicates whether sector parameters have changed for a subsequent parameters message as described. In addition the sector parameters message can have been generated as a known function of a previous signature system time and an identifier as described. Processor can be further operatively coupled to a sector identifier determiner that can compute an expected sector parameters signature utilizing a sector related identifier in a known function with one or more known values e.g. time and previous signatures as described. The sector identifier can compute a number of expected identifiers from subsequent signatures to confirm correct identification of the related sector access point group etc. The mobile device as described can take subsequent action based at least in part on the identification such as communication initialization cell reselection etc. . Mobile device still further comprises a modulator and transmitter that respectively modulate and transmit signals to for instance a base station another mobile device etc. Although depicted as being separate from the processor it is to be appreciated that the parameters signature receiver sector identifier determiner demodulator and or modulator can be part of the processor or multiple processors not shown .

According to an example the parameters signature generator can generate the sector parameters signature further as a function of the previous signature a system time and an identifier and the transmitter can transmit the signature to one or more mobile devices . Thus the mobile devices can determine an expected sector related identifier by knowing and or inferring the time and a previous signature. In one example an expected signature can be utilized where the mobile devices have not received the previous signature as described. Furthermore although depicted as being separate from the processor it is to be appreciated that the parameters message generator parameters signature generator demodulator and or modulator can be part of the processor or multiple processors not shown .

At base station traffic data for a number of data streams is provided from a data source to a transmit TX data processor . According to an example each data stream can be transmitted over a respective antenna. TX data processor formats codes and interleaves the traffic data stream based on a particular coding scheme selected for that data stream to provide coded data.

The coded data for each data stream can be multiplexed with pilot data using orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM techniques. Additionally or alternatively the pilot symbols can be frequency division multiplexed FDM time division multiplexed TDM or code division multiplexed CDM . The pilot data is typically a known data pattern that is processed in a known manner and can be used at mobile device to estimate channel response. The multiplexed pilot and coded data for each data stream can be modulated e.g. symbol mapped based on a particular modulation scheme e.g. binary phase shift keying BPSK quadrature phase shift keying QPSK M phase shift keying M PSK M quadrature amplitude modulation M QAM etc. selected for that data stream to provide modulation symbols. The data rate coding and modulation for each data stream can be determined by instructions performed or provided by processor .

The modulation symbols for the data streams can be provided to a TX MIMO processor which can further process the modulation symbols e.g. for OFDM . TX MIMO processor then provides Nmodulation symbol streams to Ntransmitters TMTR through . In various embodiments TX MIMO processor applies beamforming weights to the symbols of the data streams and to the antenna from which the symbol is being transmitted.

Each transmitter receives and processes a respective symbol stream to provide one or more analog signals and further conditions e.g. amplifies filters and upconverts the analog signals to provide a modulated signal suitable for transmission over the MIMO channel. Further Nmodulated signals from transmitters through are transmitted from Nantennas through respectively.

At mobile device the transmitted modulated signals are received by Nantennas through and the received signal from each antenna is provided to a respective receiver RCVR through . Each receiver conditions e.g. filters amplifies and downconverts a respective signal digitizes the conditioned signal to provide samples and further processes the samples to provide a corresponding received symbol stream.

An RX data processor can receive and process the Nreceived symbol streams from Nreceivers based on a particular receiver processing technique to provide N detected symbol streams. RX data processor can demodulate deinterleave and decode each detected symbol stream to recover the traffic data for the data stream. The processing by RX data processor is complementary to that performed by TX MIMO processor and TX data processor at base station .

A processor can periodically determine which preceding matrix to utilize as discussed above. Further processor can formulate a reverse link message comprising a matrix index portion and a rank value portion.

The reverse link message can comprise various types of information regarding the communication link and or the received data stream. The reverse link message can be processed by a TX data processor which also receives traffic data for a number of data streams from a data source modulated by a modulator conditioned by transmitters through and transmitted back to base station .

At base station the modulated signals from mobile device are received by antennas conditioned by receivers demodulated by a demodulator and processed by a RX data processor to extract the reverse link message transmitted by mobile device . Further processor can process the extracted message to determine which precoding matrix to use for determining the beamforming weights.

Processors and can direct e.g. control coordinate manage etc. operation at base station and mobile device respectively. Respective processors and can be associated with memory and that store program codes and data. Processors and can also perform computations to derive frequency and impulse response estimates for the uplink and downlink respectively.

It is to be understood that the embodiments described herein can be implemented in hardware software firmware middleware microcode or any combination thereof For a hardware implementation the processing units can be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a combination thereof.

When the embodiments are implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode program code or code segments they can be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage component. A code segment can represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment can be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. can be passed forwarded or transmitted using any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a software implementation the techniques described herein can be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes can be stored in memory units and executed by processors. The memory unit can be implemented within the processor or external to the processor in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor via various means as is known in the art.

Turning to illustrated is a system that determines sector identifiers based at least in part on sector parameters signatures. System can reside within a base station femtocell mobile device etc. for instance. As depicted system includes functional blocks that can represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that act in conjunction. Logical grouping can include means for receiving a first sector parameters signature from an access point . The signature can be generated using a known function as described and can indicate whether sector parameters have changed between sector parameters messages. Moreover logical grouping can include means for computing a second sector parameters signature utilizing a known function along with a predicted identifier a previous sector parameters signature and a system time for transmitting the first sector parameters signatures . Thus the known function can utilize a previous signature time and predicted identifier such that utilizing the time and a previously received or inferred signature can allow calculation of the expected identifier. Further logical grouping can include means for comparing the first and second sector parameters signatures to determine a match between the identifier and the predicted identifier . As described since the signatures are generated utilizing known or inferred parameters additional identifiers calculated from subsequent signatures can increase likelihood of correct identification in one example. Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that electrical components and can exist within memory .

Referring now to illustrated is a system that generates sector parameters signatures using a known function to facilitate sector identification. System can reside within a base station femtocell mobile device etc. for instance. As depicted system includes functional blocks that can represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can facilitate generating the sector parameters signatures. Logical grouping can include means for generating a sector parameters message comprising one or more parameters related to communication in the sector . As described the message can comprise one or more communications parameters for the sector such as a sector related identifier. Moreover logical grouping can include means for generating a sector parameters signature based at least in part on the sector parameters message an identifier and a system time . The signature can indicate information regarding the parameters of the message such as if the parameters have changed between the current and a previous message. Further logical grouping can include means for transmitting the sector parameters signature over a wireless network to facilitate identification . In this regard the sector parameters message need not be read by receiving devices rather identification can occur utilizing the signatures. This can conserve time and resources in sector identification. Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that electrical components and can exist within memory .

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned embodiments but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of various embodiments are possible. Accordingly the described embodiments are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

