---

title: Sheet member, forming method of the same, exhaust gas treatmenet apparatus, and muffling apparatus
abstract: A sheet member including inorganic fibers includes a first outer layer; a center layer; and a second outer layer. The first outer layer, the center layer, and the second outer layer are laminated with each other such that both the first and the second outer layers are outermost layers; the center layer includes inorganic fibers having diameters equal to or less than approximately 3 micrometers; and the first and the second outer layers include inorganic fibers having diameters greater than approximately 3 micrometers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08262764&OS=08262764&RS=08262764
owner: Ibiden Co., Ltd.
number: 08262764
owner_city: Ogaki-Shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20080125
---
The present application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Japanese Patent Application Nos. 2007 016773 filed Jan. 26 2007 and 2007 337554 filed Dec. 27 2007 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a sheet member a forming method of the sheet member and an exhaust gas treatment apparatus using such a sheet member as its holding and sealing member and or its heat insulating member. Further the present invention relates to a muffling apparatus having such a sheet member as a sound absorber.

The number of vehicles has been dramatically increased from the beginning of this century thereby steadily and rapidly increasing the amount of exhaust gas exhausted from the internal combustion engines of the vehicles. Particularly various materials included in the exhaust gas exhausted from diesel engines are responsible for causing contamination thereby seriously damaging the world wide environment.

Under such circumstances various exhaust gas treatment apparatuses have been conventionally proposed and put into practice. In a typical exhaust gas treatment apparatus there is a casing made of for example metal in the middle of an exhaust gas tube connected to an exhaust gas manifold of an engine and there is an exhaust gas treatment member in the casing. The exhaust gas treatment member has many cells each extending in the longitudinal direction and separated from each other by cell walls. As examples of the exhaust gas treatment member there are an exhaust gas filter such as a catalyst carrier and a Diesel Particulate Filter DPF . In such DPFs one end surface of each cell is sealed to form a checkered pattern and the particulates in exhaust gas can be removed by being trapped on the cell walls before the exhaust gas is exhausted from the exhaust gas treatment member. The typical materials of the exhaust gas treatment member include ceramics in addition to metals and alloys. As a typical example of the exhaust gas treatment member cordierite honeycomb filter is known. Recently porous sintered silicon carbide has started to be used as a material of the exhaust gas treatment members from the viewpoint of its properties of thermal insulation mechanical strength and chemical stability.

Generally a holding and sealing member is displaced between such an exhaust gas treatment member and a casing. The holding and sealing member is used to avoid the contact between the exhaust gas treatment member and the casing so as to avoid damage while the vehicle is being operated and also avoid leakage of untreated exhaust gas through the gaps between the casing and the exhaust gas treatment member. Further the holding and sealing member has a role to avoid the displacement of the exhaust gas treatment member due to the pressure of the exhaust gas. Still further the holding and sealing member is required to be kept at high temperature to sustain the reactivity and to have thermal insulation efficiency. As a member meeting the above requirements there is a sheet member made of inorganic fibers such as alumina based fibers.

The sheet member is twisted around at least one part on the outer surface excepting an opening surface of the exhaust gas treatment member. For example one end of the sheet member is engaged with the other end of the sheet member and the sheet member is integrated with the exhaust treatment member by for example taping so as to be used. After the processes the integrated parts are housed inside the casing to form the exhaust gas treatment apparatus.

On the other hand the inorganic fibers included in such a sheet member typically have various fiber diameters including extremely small diameters. Such fine fibers are apt to be scattered in all directions when being handled so it is difficult to handle such fibers and therefore it is not good for the working environment and human health. For example according to a report inorganic fibers having a diameter of 3 micrometers or less are not good for human health. Because of the feature inorganic fibers may be subject to control in some areas For example Germany Technical Guideline TRGS905 . The contents of Germany Technical Guideline TRGS905 are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

To solve the problem there is disclosed a sheet member that does not include inorganic fibers having a diameter of 3 micrometers or less see Japanese Patent Application Publication No. 2005 120560 .

The contents of Japanese Patent Application Publication No. 2005 120560 are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

According to an aspect of the present invention there is provided a sheet member having inorganic fibers including a first outer layer a center layer and a second outer layer. The first outer layer the center layer and the second outer layer are laminated with each other such that both the first and the second outer layers are outermost layers. The center layer includes inorganic fibers having diameters equal to or less than approximately 3 micrometers. The first and the second outer layers include inorganic fibers having diameters greater than approximately 3 micrometers.

In the sheet member according to an embodiment of the present invention the scattering of inorganic fibers is controlled the handling of the sheet member becomes easier and the working environment is improved.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided another sheet member including inorganic fibers. The sheet member includes first and second outer layers and a center layer. In the sheet member the first outer layer the center layer and the second outer layer are laminated with each other such that both the first and the second outer layers are outermost layers. The center layer includes inorganic fibers having a diameter equal to or less than approximately 3 micrometers. The first and the second outer layers include inorganic fibers whose value A calculated by the following formula 1 of the inorganic fibers included in the first and the second outer layers is greater than approximately 6 micrometers 2 1 

wherein a reference symbol M represents an average diameter of the inorganic fibers included in the outer layers and a reference symbol e represents a standard error given by the following formula square root over 2 

wherein reference symbols and n represent the standard deviation and the number of measurements respectively.

According to still another aspect of the present invention there is provided still another sheet member including inorganic fibers. The sheet member includes first and second outer layers and a center layer. In the sheet member the first outer layer the center layer and the second outer layer are laminated with each other such that both the first and the second outer layers are outermost layers. The center layer includes inorganic fibers having a diameter equal to or less than approximately 3 micrometers. One of the first outer layer and the second outer layer or both of the outlet layers include bio soluble inorganic fibers.

In the sheet member the average diameter and the minimum diameter of the inorganic fibers included in the first outer layer may be substantially equal to the average diameter and the minimum diameter respectively of the inorganic fibers included in the second outer layer.

Still further preferably a weight ratio W of the total weight of the first and the second outer layers with respect to the total weight of the entire sheet member is in a range greater than approximately 0 wt and equal to or less than approximately 50 wt .

Still further preferably a thickness ratio t of the total thickness of the first and the second outer layers with respect to the total thickness of the entire sheet member is in a range greater than approximately 0 and equal to or less than approximately 50 .

Still further the sheet member may further include a covering layer covering at least a part of a side surface of the center layer. The covering layer does not cover the sides of the two outermost layers.

In this case especially the covering layer may be disposed so as to cover the entire side surfaces of the center layer.

Further the covering layer may be substantially the same as the first outer layer or the second outer layer.

Still further the sheet member may further include an adhesive layer disposed between the first or the second outer layer and the center layer.

According to still another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of forming a sheet member including inorganic fibers the method. The method includes a step of forming a first outer layer including inorganic fibers having a minimum diameter greater than approximately 3 micrometers a step of forming a center layer including inorganic fibers having a minimum diameter of equal to or less than approximately 3 micrometers a step of forming a second outer layer including inorganic fibers having a minimum diameter greater than approximately 3 micrometers and a step of laminating and joining the first outer layer the center layer and the second outer layer such that both the first and the second outer layers are outermost layers.

According to still another aspect of the present invention there is provided another method of forming a sheet member including inorganic fibers. The method includes a step of forming a first outer layer including inorganic fibers whose value A calculated by in the following formula 1 is greater than approximately 6 micrometers a step of forming a center layer including inorganic fibers having a minimum diameter equal to or less than approximately 3 micrometers a step of forming a second outer layer including inorganic fibers whose value A calculated by the following formula 1 is greater than approximately 6 micrometers and a step of laminating and joining the first outer layer the center layer and the second outer layer such that both the first and the second outer layers are outermost layers 2 1 

wherein a reference symbol M represents an average diameter of the inorganic fibers included in the outer layers and a reference symbol e represents a standard error given by the following formula square root over 2 

wherein reference symbols and n represent the standard deviation and the number of measurements respectively.

According to still another aspect of the present invention there is provided still another method of forming a sheet member including inorganic fibers. The method includes a step of forming a first outer layer including first bio soluble inorganic fibers a step of forming a center layer including inorganic fibers having a minimum diameter equal to or less than approximately 3 micrometers a step of forming a second outer layer including second bio soluble inorganic fibers and a step of laminating and joining the first outer layer the center layer and the second outer layer such that both the first and the second outer layers are outermost layers.

In the step of laminating and joining the layers the formed layers may be joined to each other with an adhesive layer.

According to still another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of forming a sheet member including inorganic fibers. The method includes a step of feeding first raw slurry including inorganic fibers having a minimum diameter greater than approximately 3 micrometers into a forming device a step of dehydrating the first slurry to form a first forming body a step of feeding second raw slurry including inorganic fibers having a minimum diameter equal to or less than approximately 3 micrometers on the dehydrated first slurry a step of dehydrating the second slurry to form a second forming body on the first forming body a step of feeding third raw slurry including inorganic fibers having a minimum diameter greater than approximately 3 micrometers into the forming device a step of dehydrating the third slurry to form a third forming body on the first and the second forming bodies and a step of compressing and dehydrating a forming body having a three layer structure where the third forming body is formed on the first and the second forming bodies to form a sheet member having a three layer structure.

The method of forming a sheet member described above may further including a step of impregnating the sheet member with binder.

According to still another aspect of the present invention there is provided an exhaust gas treatment apparatus including an exhaust gas treatment member and a holding and sealing member twisted around at least one part on the outer circumference surface of the exhaust gas treatment member. In the exhaust gas treatment apparatus the holding and sealing member includes any one of the sheet members described above.

According to still another aspect of the present invention there is provided an exhaust gas treatment apparatus including an inlet tube and an outlet tube for exhaust gas an exhaust gas treatment member disposed between the inlet tube and the outlet tube and a heat insulating member disposed at least on a part of the inlet tube and including any one of sheet members described above.

In the exhaust gas treatment apparatus the exhaust gas treatment member may be a catalyst carrier or an exhaust gas filter.

According to still another aspect of the present invention there is provided a muffling apparatus including an inner pipe an outer shell covering the outer circumference of the inner pipe and a sound absorber including to any one of the sheet members described above. In the muffling apparatus the sound absorber is between the inner pipe and the outer shell so that the first outer layer of the sheet member faces the outer shell.

In the sheet member according to an embodiment of the present invention the scattering of inorganic fibers is controlled the handling of the sheet member becomes easier and the working environment of handling the sheet member is improved. Further when the sheet member is used as a holding and sealing member in an exhaust gas treatment apparatus it is possible to reduce the decrease of the holding power with respect to the exhaust gas treatment apparatus. Further when such a sheet member is used as a sound absorber of a muffling apparatus it is possible to control the reduction of the surface pressure between the inner pipe and the outer shell.

Therefore according to an embodiment of the present invention there are provided an exhaust gas treatment apparatus using the sheet member as a holding and sealing member and or heat insulating member a forming method of the exhaust gas treatment apparatus and a muffling apparatus using the sheet member as a sound absorber.

The embodiments will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding or identical elements throughout the various drawings.

When a sheet member according to an embodiment of the present invention is twisted around an exhaust gas treatment member such as a catalyst carrier to be used as a holding and sealing member of an exhaust gas treatment apparatus as shown in an engagement convex part and an engagement concave part are provided on end faces and respectively perpendicular to the twisting direction X direction of the sheet member . When the sheet member is twisted around the exhaust gas treatment member as shown in the engagement convex part and the engagement concave part engage each other so as to fix the sheet member in place around the exhaust gas treatment member . Then the exhaust gas treatment member with the sheet member twisted around is pressed into a cylinder shaped casing made of for example metal by for example a press fit method to produce an exhaust gas treatment apparatus .

The sheet member according to an embodiment of the present invention is made of mainly inorganic fibers but may further include binder as described below.

A sheet member according to an embodiment of the present invention includes at least three layers a first outer layer a center layer and a second outer layer . The first outer layer the center layer and the second outer layer are laminated to each other such that the first outer layer and the second outer layer are the outermost surfaces. For example in the sheet member is configured such that the first outer layer the center layer and the second outer layer are laminated in this order.

The center layer is a sheet including inorganic fibers having diameters of approximately 3 micrometers or less hereinafter referred to as fine fibers or is for example a sheet member including inorganic fibers conventionally used as a holding and sealing member of an exhaust gas treatment apparatus. In contrast the first outer layer and the second outer layer include the inorganic fibers except the fine fibers .

When such a sheet member having a three layer structure is being handled the fine fibers included in the center layer are unable to move freely due to the first and the second outer layers and respectively provided on upper and lower most surfaces of the sheet member. Because of this structure the scattering of the fine fibers from the sheet member is reduced thereby improving the handling of the sheet member and the working environment while the sheet member is being handled. Accordingly the embodiment of the present invention may provide a sheet member with ease of operation.

Generally when a sheet member including fibers having only larger diameters is used as a holding and sealing member in an exhaust gas treatment apparatus many fibers included in the sheet member may be broken and damaged thereby disadvantageously reducing the repulsive power against an external compression stress and the holding power to hold the exhaust gas treatment member while the sheet member is being handled that is being twisted around an exhaust gas treatment member or put into a casing or the exhaust gas treatment apparatus is being used. However a sheet member according to an embodiment of the present invention includes the fine fibers capable of improving the holding power. Thus when the sheet member is used as a holding and sealing member in an exhaust gas treatment apparatus unlike the case where a sheet member that does not include the fine fibers is used the reduction of the holding power to hold the exhaust gas treatment member can be attenuated and an appropriate holding power to hold the exhaust gas treatment member can be thus maintained.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the upper limit of a weight ratio W of the total weight of the first and the second outer layers with respect to the total weight of the entire sheet member is not limited to but preferably equal to or less than approximately 50 wt and more preferably equal to or less than approximately 20 wt . On the other hand the lower limit of W should be any value more than zero theoretically. However as long as the W is not extremely small fine fibers included in the center layer may not be scattered outside through the first outer layer and or the second outer layer . Therefore from a practical point of view the lower limit of W is preferably equal to or more than approximately 2 wt . Further it should be noted that the weight of the first layer may be substantially the same as or may be different from the weight of the second layer. For example the weight ratio of the first outer layer to the second outer layer may be in the range between approximately 1 9 and approximately 9 1.

Further a thickness ratio t of the total thicknesses of the first and the second outer layers with respect to the total thickness of the entire sheet member is for example but not limited to approximately 0

However when the thickness ratio t becomes extremely small some fine fibers included in the center layer may be scattered outside through the first outer layer and or the second outer layer . Therefore from a practical point of view the lower limit of W is preferably equal to or more than approximately 1 .

Further the first and the second outer layers having a basis weight of for example but not limited to from approximately 60 g mto approximately 1 500 g mare typically used. The center layer having the basis weight of for example but not limited to from approximately 500 g mto approximately 3 000 g mis typically used. Here the basis weight refers to the total weight of the fibers included in a unit area of the sheet member. However when binder is included in the sheet member the basis weight refers to the total weight of the binder and the fibers included in a unit area. Also each layer having a bulk density of for example but not limited to from approximately 0.07 g cmto approximately 0.30 g cmare typically used.

According to the embodiment of the present invention in general a sheet member having a bulk density of for example but not limited to from approximately 0.07 g cmto approximately 0.30 g cmand having a basis weight of for example but not limited to from approximately 500 g mto approximately 3 000 g m respectively is typically used.

It should be noted that in the first embodiment as for the inorganic fibers used for the first and the second outer layers the inorganic fibers having an average diameter of for example but not limited to in the range between approximately 5 micrometers and approximately 10 micrometers can be used. However it should be arranged that that fine fibers are not included in the both outer layers. Because of this feature in most cases the minimum diameter of the inorganic fibers included in the first and the second outer layers is in the range between approximately 3.1 micrometers and approximately 5.0 micrometers. Further in the present invention the specifications average fiber diameter minimum fiber diameter and forming method of the first and the second outer layers may be substantially the same or may be different from each other.

On the other hand the average diameter of the inorganic fibers included in the center layer is in the range between approximately 3.0 micrometers and approximately 8.0 micrometers. But the fine fibers may also be included in the center layer.

The average diameter of inorganic fibers included in each layer is measured by the following method. First a sample of alumina based fibers obtained from each layer is entered into a cylinder and then is crushed under a pressure of approximately 20.6 MPa. Next the sample is put on a sieving screen to be sieved. The sample that has passed through the sieving screen is transferred to be a specimen of an electron microscope. After a material such as gold is evaporated onto the surface of the specimen electron microscope pictures with approximately 1500 times magnification of the specimen are taken. Diameters of at least 40 fibers from the taken pictures are measured. This procedure is repeated for five separate specimens to obtain the average diameter of the inorganic fibers in the layer by averaging the measured values.

Also the minimum diameter of the fibers included in each layer is obtained by the following method. The electron microscope pictures approximately 1 500 times magnitude in appropriate portions of each of the outer layers and center layer are taken. From the taken pictures of approximately 50 fibers the fiber having the minimum diameter is selected and the diameter of the fiber is measured. The same operation but in different portions of each layer is repeated to take additional six pictures. The minimum diameter from among the obtained diameters is selected as the minimum fiber diameter of the layer.

Further when a sheet member is formed by the needling processing method described below the density of needle traces in each layer is preferably in the range between approximately 2.0 pieces cmand approximately 20.0 pieces cm. This is because when the density of needle traces is more than approximately 2.0 pieces cmthe strength of the sheet member is not reduced. On the other hand when the density of needle traces is changed in the range less than approximately 20.0 pieces cm the bulk density is changed and the sheet member is hardened and the handling won t be more difficult.

In the present application needle traces refer to the fiber confounding traces having a maximum size equal to or less than approximately 3 mmgenerated on the sheet member when fiber confounding units such as needles are thrust into and pulled out of the sheet member formed by the needling processing method .

As described above the sheet member according to the embodiment of the present invention is twisted around the outer surface of the exhaust gas treatment member and is used after the ends of the sheet member are engaged with each other and fixed in place with a tape. The exhaust gas treatment member covered by the sheet member is then pressed into the casing to form an exhaust gas treatment apparatus .

Next a configuration of another sheet member a second sheet member according to an embodiment of the present invention is described.

Like a sheet member shown in the second sheet member includes the first outer layer the center layer and the second outer layer those layers laminated in this order. However in the second sheet a value A calculated by the following formula 1 of the inorganic fibers included in the first and the second outer layers is greater than approximately 6 micrometers. 2 1 

Where a reference symbol M represents an average diameter of the inorganic fibers included in the outer layers. A reference symbol e represents a standard error given by the following formula square root over 2 

Where reference symbols and n represent the standard deviation and the number of measurements respectively.

According to EU directive 97 69 EC effective on 5 Dec. 1997 the regulations for the health and safety aspects of glass fibers in Europe hereinafter referred to as EU directive the inorganic fibers whose value A in the formula 1 exceeds approximately 6 micrometers are classified as so called Note R and are not subject to control.

Therefore in the sheet member having the above mentioned first and the second outer layers the second sheet member even when the inorganic fibers are scattered from the first and the second outer layers the inorganic fibers are unlikely to harm the human body. Further as described above since the first and the second outer layers are provided on both surface sides of the sheet member the scattering of the fine fibers from the center layer is significantly controlled when being handled. As a result in such a sheet member as described above the handling of the sheet member becomes easier and the working environment is improved. Further since the sheet member includes the fine fibers contributing the improvement of the holding power it is possible to minimize the reduction of the holding power as much as possible.

It should be noted that only when the relationship A approximately 6 micrometers is satisfied the average diameters of the first and the second outer layer are not limited. As a result unlike the first embodiment it should be noted that both the first and the second outer layers may include some amount of fine fibers . On the other hand in the center layer similar to the first embodiment the fine fibers are included and the average diameter of the inorganic fibers is preferably in the range between approximately 3.0 micrometers and approximately 8.0 micrometers.

In the sheet member according to the first and the second embodiments of the present invention the minimum diameter of the inorganic fibers in the first and the second outer layers exceeds approximately 3.0 micrometers and the inorganic fibers whose value A in the formula 1 exceeds approximately 6 micrometers are included in the first and the second outer layers. On the other hand in a sheet member according to the third embodiment of the present invention a third sheet member bio soluble inorganic fibers are included in the first outer layer and or the second outer layer.

The bio soluble inorganic fibers generically refers to the inorganic fibers that satisfy so called Note Q requirements and that are not subject to control as inorganic fibers based on the EU directive . It should be noted that according to the Note Q standards of the EU directive the inorganic fibers fulfilling one of the following conditions is not classified as a control subject 

Even when such bio soluble inorganic fibers are taken into a human body since the bio soluble inorganic fibers are dissolved in the human body and have little impact on the human body the bio soluble inorganic fibers are safe. Therefore when the bio soluble inorganic fibers are included in the first or the second outer layer of the sheet member the inorganic fibers scattered from the layer have little impact on the human body. Further the scattering of the fine fibers included in the center layer in the middle of the sheet member is controlled. As a result when the third sheet member is used it is possible that the handling of the sheet member becomes easier and the working environment is significantly improved.

In the aforementioned three embodiments the first and the second outer sheets and are disposed one on each of the main surfaces of the center layer to configure the sheet member of the embodiment of the present invention. However the sheet member according to an embodiment of the present invention is not limited to such configuration.

In the sheet member including the covering layer the center layer is not exposed on the side surface of the sheet member . Because of this structure when for example the sheet member is being handled it is possible to control the scattering of the fine fibers outside from the sheet member l. Therefore it is possible to further control the scattering of the fine fibers outside from the sheet member .

In the covering layer is provided so as to cover the entire side surface of the sheet member . However it should be noted that the covering layer may be disposed so as to cover only a part of the side surface . In this case the effect to control the scattering of the fine fibers is reduced compared with the sheet member in . Nevertheless the scattering of the fine fibers can be significantly controlled compared with the sheet member in .

The covering layer is disposed on the side surface of the sheet member for example with an adhesive agent or by stitching. The covering layer may be any layer as long as the layer can control the scattering of the fine fibers and may be made of substantially the same material as the first outer layer or the second outer layer.

Further in the first and the second outer layers include inorganic fibers without the fine fibers similar to the first sheet member. However it is obvious that the inorganic fibers whose value A in formula 1 exceeds approximately 6 micrometers or the bio soluble inorganic fibers may be included in the first and the second outer layers like the second and the third sheet members.

In this example of the exhaust gas treatment member is a catalyst carrier having openings for the inlet and the outlet of exhaust gas and plural cells or through holes disposed in the direction substantially parallel to the flow of exhaust gas. The catalyst carrier is made of for example porous silicon carbide having a honeycomb structure. It should be noted that the configuration of the exhaust gas treatment apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention is not limited to this configuration. For example the exhaust gas treatment member may be a DPF in which one of the end surfaces of each of the through holes is sealed to form checkered patterns at both ends.

In such an exhaust gas treatment apparatus due to the effect of the sheet member described above the scattering of the inorganic fibers when the sheet member is twisted around the exhaust gas treatment member is significantly controlled. Further the holding and the sealing member can provide appropriate holding power to hold the exhaust gas treatment member.

In addition to the above or besides the above it is obvious to a person having ordinary skill in this art that the heat insulating member may be configured with the sheet member according to an embodiment of the present invention.

Next another application of the sheet member according to an embodiment of the present invention is described. schematically shows an exemplary muffling apparatus having a sheet member according to an embodiment of the present invention. This muffling apparatus is disposed in the middle of an exhaust tube for for example a two wheel vehicle or a four wheel vehicle. The muffling apparatus includes an inner pipe made oft for example a metal such as stainless steel an outer shell covering the outer circumference of the inner pipe made of for example a metal such as stainless steel and a sound absorber disposed between the inner pipe and the outer shell . Typically plural small holes are formed on surface of the inner pipe . In such a muffling apparatus when exhaust gas is passed through the inner pipe noise of the exhaust gas is attenuated by the sound absorber .

Here the sheet member according to an embodiment of the present invention can be used as the sound absorber . By using any one of the first through the fourth sheet members as the sound absorber due to the effect described above it is possible to significantly control the scattering of the inorganic fibers when the sheet member is twisted around the inner pipe . Further it is possible to control the reduction of the surface pressure between the inner pipe and the outer shell.

Next a method of forming a sheet member is described. In the following the forming method of the sheet member according to the first embodiment of the present invention is described.

Typically there are two methods of forming such a sheet member according to an embodiment of the present invention a laminating method and an all in one forming method .

First in step S the first outer layer including no fine fibers is formed. The first outer layer is formed by for example the needling processing method or a papermaking method as described below. In the present application it should be noted that the term needling processing method includes any method of forming a sheet member including a needling process in which fiber confounding units such as needles are thrust into and pulled out of the sheet member. Further in the present application it should be noted that the term papermaking method refers to a method of forming a sheet member including each step of opening slurring forming compressing and drying fibers.

Next in step S the second outer layer including no fine fibers is formed. The same as the first outer layer the second outer layer is formed by for example the needling processing method or the papermaking method .

Next in step S the center layer including the fine fibers is formed. The same as the first and the second outer layers the center layer is also formed by for example the needling processing method or the papermaking method . It should be noted that the forming methods for example the needling processing method and the papermaking method of those three layers may be the same or may be different from each other. Also the order of the forming steps is not always necessarily the same as the order of steps S through S for example the center layer may be formed before the first and the second outer layers are formed.

Next in step S these three layers are laminated in the order of the first outer layer the center layer and the second outer layer and adjacent layers are adhered to each other. As a method of adhering layers to each other there are some methods such as using an adhesive layer made of for example a double sided adhesive tape and adhesive agent provided at the boundary surface between the first second outer layer and the center layer to adhere the layers to each other through the generated adhesive layer or sewing adjoining layers through the boundary surface. As the former method using the adhesive layer besides the method adhering the adjoining layers to each other through the adhesive layer there is another method in which thermally reversible films such as a PE film and Warifu Registered Trademark are thermally adhered to both sides of the center layer and the facing sides of the outer layers at a temperature of approximately 140 C. and for example a double sided adhesive tape or adhesive agent is applied to one of the facing films so as to adhere those three layers to each other. As the adhesive agent acrylic based adhesive agent acrylate based Latex or the like may be used. The thickness of the double sided adhesive tape the adhesive agent and the thermally reversible film is for example but not limited to in the range between approximately 0.02 mm and approximately 0.60 mm.

In the present application the adhesive layer refers to a layer provided at the boundary surface so as to join the center layer and two outer layers including the above mentioned thermally reversible film when it is used. Therefore when the thermally reversible film is used the thickness of one adhesive layer is determined by the quotation of Thickness of thermally reversible film 2 Thickness of both sided adhesive tape or adhesive agent . Thickness of the adhesive layer is for example in the range between approximately 0.02 mm and approximately 0.60 mm.

In the laminating method a sheet member according to an embodiment of the present invention is formed through the steps described above.

In a typical all in one forming method unlike the above mentioned laminating method a sheet member having a three layer structure is formed through a sequence of processing steps. In the all in one forming method a sheet member is also formed by either the needling processing method or the papermaking method . However in the all in one forming method since it is not necessary to prepare each layer independently and a single forming machine can be used it is advantageous that the forming process can be simplified.

In the following examples of forming a sheet member according to the embodiments of the present invention are described in detail based on the laminating method and the all in one forming method . In the following a sheet member including a mixture of alumina and silica as inorganic fibers is described as examples. It should be noted that the inorganic fibers are not limited to this mixture but may include only either alumina or silica. Any other type of inorganic fibers may be used.

As described above in this laminating method it is necessary to prepare each layer separately. Each layer is formed by the needling processing method through each process of preparing spinning solution blowing needling calcining and impregnating binder.

Silica sol is added to basic aluminum chloride aqueous solution with aluminum content 70 g l and Al Cl approximately 1.8 atom ratio such that the composing ratio of alumina and silica is approximately 60 97 approximately 40 3 to prepare the precursor of inorganic fibers. More preferably the composing ratio of alumina and silica is approximately 70 97 approximately 30 3. This is because when the composing ratio of alumina is equal to or less than approximately 60 the composing ratio of mullite prepared from alumina and silica is lowered and the heat conductivity of each formed layer is increased. As a result the thermal insulating properties of each layer is apt to be reduced. On the other hand when the composing ratio of alumina exceeds approximately 97 the flexibility of the inorganic fibers is lowered.

Next organic polymer such as polyvinyl alcohol is added to the precursor of the alumina based fibers. Then the liquid is condensed to prepare a spinning solution.

Next fibers are formed by a blowing process using the obtained spinning solution. The blowing process refers to a method of forming fibers using a carrier flow blown through a carrier nozzle and a spinning solution flow pushed out through a spinning solution supply nozzle. In this process the average diameter and the minimum diameters of alumina fiber precursor is controlled by adjusting the flow rate of the carrier gas air and the supplying rate of the spinning solution. Therefore in this process the average diameter and the minimum diameters of the inorganic fibers included in the formed outer layers and center layer is determined.

Typically the diameter of the spinning solution supply nozzle is in the range between approximately 0.1 mm and approximately 0.5 mm. When the outer layers are formed the typical air flow rate of the flow through the carrier nozzle is in the range between approximately 30 m s and approximately 150 m s and the typical supplying rate of the spinning solution through the spinning solution supply nozzle is in the range between approximately 1 ml h and approximately 120 ml h. On the other hand when the center layer is formed the typical air flow rate of the flow through the carrier nozzle is in the range between approximately 40 m s and approximately 200 m s and typical supplying rate of the spinning solution through the spinning solution supply nozzle is in the range between approximately 1 ml h and approximately 60 ml h.

Next a needling process is performed on the raw sheet. In the needling process a needling device is typically used.

Generally the needling device includes a needle board reciprocally movable in the thrusting direction typically in the up and down direction and a pair of supporting boards provided on both sides facing the front face and the rear face of the raw sheet. On the needle board there are plenty of needles arranged in a density of for example 5 to 5 000 needles per 100 cmto thrust into the raw sheet. In each supporting board there are plenty of through holes. Therefore while the raw sheet is held down from both sides by a pair of the supporting boards by bringing the needle board close to the raw sheet and separating the needle board away from the raw sheet the needles are thrust into and pulled out of the raw sheet to form a raw sheet in which fibers are confounded. In this process the needling device may include a conveying unit conveying the raw sheet at a constant speed for example approximately 20 mm s in the predetermined direction for example substantially parallel to the front and rear surfaces of the raw sheet . In this case since it is possible to perform the needling process while the raw sheet is being moved with a constant speed it is no longer necessary to move the raw sheet manually every time after the needle board presses and contacts the raw sheet.

As another configuration the needling device may include a pair of needle boards as a set. Each needle board has its corresponding supporting board. Two needle boards are provided on both the front and the rear sides of the raw sheet and the raw sheet is held down from both sides by the supporting boards. The needles on the needle boards are arranged so that the positions of the needles on one needle board are not overlapped with the positions of the needles on the other needle board. Further there are so many through holes provided in each of the supporting boards in consideration of the positions of needles on both needle boards so that no needle should contact the supporting boards when the needling process is performed on both surfaces of the raw sheet. With such a device the raw sheet may be held down from both surfaces by using the two supporting boards and the needling process is performed on the raw sheet from both surfaces by using a pair of needle boards. When needles are thrust by such a method the outer and center layers each having a high density of needle traces can be formed easily.

Next thus obtained raw sheet is heated from room temperature to approximately 1 250 C. and the temperature is maintained for approximately 0.5 to approximately 2 hours for continuous calcination to prepare the outer and center layers for the sheet member.

When necessary binder impregnating and adding process may be further performed to impregnate the outer and center layers with binder such as organic resin. By performing this process a bulk height of the outer and center layers can be reduced and the separation of fibers from a completed sheet member can be further reduced. However the binder impregnating and adding process is not always necessarily performed in this step. For example the binder impregnating and adding process may be performed after the center layer is joined to the two outer layers that is after the sheet member is formed .

In the impregnating and adding process the adding amount of the binder is preferably in the range between approximately 1.0 wt and approximately 10.0 wt . When it is more than approximately 1.0 wt the separation prevention effect of inorganic fibers is not reduced. On the other hand when it is less than approximately 10.0 wt the amount of organic component decomposed gas of the binder exhausted is not increased while the exhaust gas treatment apparatus is being operated.

As binder organic binder such as epoxy resin acrylate resin rubber based resin and styrene based resin may be used. Also for example acrylic rubber ACM acrylonitrile butadiene rubber NBR and styrene butadiene rubber SBR resin may be used.

The outer and center layers are impregnated with the binder by spray coating using the aqueous dispersion prepared by adding water to the binder. By this process extra solid content and liquid added into the outer and center layers can be removed as described below.

The extra solid content is removed by a suction method using a suction device such as a vacuum pump. Also the extra water may be removed by heating the sheet member at a temperature between approximately 90 C. and approximately 160 C. and or by compressing the sheet member at a pressure between approximately 40 kPa and approximately 100 kPa.

Next the outer layers are laminated onto the front and rear surfaces of the center layer to join the three layers. As described above the methods of joining the three layers include a method using the adhesive layer and a method of sewing adjoining layers through the boundary surface. By such a method the sheet member according to an embodiment of the present invention can be formed.

In another example of the laminating method a papermaking method is used to manufacture each layer. In the papermaking method each layer is formed through the processes of opening slurrying forming and compressing and drying fibers.

First an opening process of inorganic fibers is preformed. The opening process is performed through a dry type opening process alone or through two processes consisting of the dry type opening process and a wet type opening process. In the dry type opening process a device such as a Feathermill may be used to open the raw fibers. On the other hand in the wet type opening process the flocculated dry type opened fibers obtained by the above mentioned dry type opening process are fed into a wet type opening device to further perform the opening process. In the wet type opening process a wet type opening device such as Pulper is used. Through such an opening process the opened raw fibers can be obtained.

Next thus obtained raw fibers are fed into a stirring device and are stirred for for example approximately 1 to approximately 5 minutes so that the relative weight of the raw fibers to water is in the range between approximately 1 wt and approximately 2 wt to prepare a mixture. Next organic binder with approximately 4 wt to approximately 8 wt of the raw fibers is added to the mixture and the mixture is stirred for for example approximately 1 to approximately 5 minutes. Further a flocculant with approximately 0.5 wt of the raw fibers is added to the mixture and the mixture is stirred for up to 2 minutes to prepare raw slurry.

As inorganic binder for example alumina sol and or silica gel are used. As organic binder for example a rubber based material a water soluble organic polymer compound thermoreversible resin and thermohardening resin are used. As a flocculant for example Percol 292 Ciba Specialty Chemicals is used.

Next the obtained raw slurry is fed into a forming device having a desired shape and is dehydrated. In a typical case at the bottom of the forming device there may be provided a filtering mesh mesh size is for example 30 meshes and through the meshes extra water in the raw slurry fed into the forming device is drained. Therefore by using such a forming device both forming the raw slurry in the desired shape and dehydrating the raw slurry can be performed at the same time. When necessary extra water may be compulsorily sucked from the lower side of the forming device through the filtering meshes using for example a suction pump or a vacuum pump.

Next the thus obtained formed body is removed from the forming device and is compressed using a compression device so that the thickness becomes approximately 0.3 to approximately 0.5 times the thickness before this process and is heated and dehydrated at a temperature between approximately 90 C. and approximately 150 C. for approximately 5 minutes to approximately 1 hour to obtain the outer layers.

The binder impregnating and adding process may be performed as performed in the laminating method 1 using the obtained outer layer However as described above in a case of the laminating method such binder impregnating and adding process may be performed after the three layers are joined.

Next after three layers are laminated by using the above mentioned method using a both sided adhesive tape an adhesive agent or by sewing the layers can be joined to manufacture the sheet member according to the embodiment of the present invention.

In the all in one forming method the needling processing method and the papermaking method can also be used. In the all in one forming method 1 an all in one forming method based on the papermaking method is described.

In this method a process of step S opening and slurrying processes is the same as in the laminating method 2 . But the processes in and after step S in this method are different from the processes in the above mentioned method.

More specifically in step S of this method first raw slurry is fed into a forming device and is dehydrated. Then before the raw sheet is removed that is in half dehydrated condition second raw slurry is added on the dehydrated forming body hereinafter first forming body step S . Here it should be noted that the inorganic fibers included in the first raw slurry do not include the fine fibers and the inorganic fibers included in the second raw slurry include the fine fibers .

Next the extra water included in the second raw slurry is drained from the lower side of the forming device through the first forming body and the filtering meshes to dehydrate the second raw slurry to prepare the second forming body. As described above when necessary the water may be compulsorily sucked from the lower side of the forming device.

Next in step S before a two layered forming body consisting of the first and the second forming bodies is removed that is in the half dehydrated condition third raw slurry is added on the two layered forming body . Further the extra water included in the third raw slurry is drained from the lower side of the forming device through the two layered forming body and the filtering meshes to dehydrate the third raw slurry. As described above when necessary the water may be compulsorily sucked from the lower side of the forming device. Here it should be noted that the inorganic fibers included in the third raw slurry should not include the fine fibers and the third raw slurry may be the same as or different from the first raw slurry.

Through the above series of processes a laminated formed body having a three layer structure is obtained.

Next in step S the laminated formed body is removed from the forming device and is compressed using for example a pressing device so that the thickness becomes approximately 0.3 to approximately 0.5 times the thickness before this step and is simultaneously heated and dehydrated at a temperature between for example approximately 90 C. and approximately 150 C. for approximately 5 minutes to approximately 1 hour. By this method in a series of processes a sheet member having a three layer structure can be formed at one time. The above mentioned binder impregnating and adding process may be further performed using the obtained sheet member.

In this method the thus obtained sheet member has an advantage in that the bonding strength of the boundary surface is higher than that of the sheet member formed through a process of joining each of the layers using for example an adhesive agent. The reason for this is that the contacting area between the layers becomes larger since in this method before a layer is fully formed the adjoining layer is laminated directly on the layer.

The all in one forming method 2 is the all in one forming method based on the needling processing method .

In this method as well generally a sheet member is formed using the same processes as in the above mentioned laminating method 1 . But in this all in one forming method 2 in the process of preparing the spinning solution through blowing spinning a precursor having a three layer structure is laminated at one time to manufacture the raw sheet. Then in the needling process the needling process is performed on the raw sheet having the laminated three layers thereby obtaining the raw sheet having a three layer structure. It should be noted that in the three layered precursor in the blowing spinning process the center layer is formed so as to include the fine fibers and the outer layers are formed so as not to include the fine fibers .

The processes after the above process in this method are the same as the processes in the laminating method 1 . But obviously a process of joining each of the layers is no longer necessary in this method.

In each of above mentioned forming methods cases where a sheet member having a three layer structure are described. However it is obvious that the present invention described herein is also applicable to any case where a sheet member has more than a three layer structure as long as the upper and lower most layers of the sheet member do not include the fine fibers . Such a sheet member having a multi layered structure may be easily formed by for example laminating more than three layers in the laminating method 1 and the laminating method 2 or further adding fourth raw slurry to the top of the third raw slurry in the all in one forming method 1 .

In the above description the forming method is described using the first sheet member. However it is obvious for a person having an ordinary skill in the art that the described method is basically applicable to the second through the fourth sheet members as well.

The advantages of the embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to the following embodiments.

To verify the advantages of the embodiment of the present invention sheet members according to the embodiment of the present inventions are formed by the above mentioned laminating method and various tests are performed. The sheet member is formed by the following processes.

A first outer layer is formed by the needling processing method . First silica sol is added to basic aluminum chloride aqueous solution with aluminum content of 70 g l and Al Cl 1.8 atom ratio such that the relative proportion of AlO SiOin alumina based fibers is 72 28 to prepare the precursor of alumina based fibers. Next polyvinyl alcohol is added to the precursor of alumina based fibers. Further this liquid is condensed to prepare a spinning solution. From the spinning solution fibers are formed by the blowing spinning process. The flow rate of the carrier gas air is 52 m s and the supplying rate of the spinning solution is 5.3 ml h.

Then the precursor of the alumina based fibers is folded and laminated to manufacture a raw sheet of alumina based fibers.

Next the needling process is performed to the obtained raw sheet. In the needling process a needling board having needles at a density of 80 needles per 100 cmis provided on one side of the raw sheet and the needling is performed from the one side of the sheet member. Since the entire length of the needles is longer than the entire thickness of the sheet member the needles can pass through the sheet member completely when the needling board presses and contacts from the one side.

Then the obtained sheet member is heated from room temperature to 1 250 C. and the temperature is maintained for one hour for continuous calcination. Next the obtained first outer layer is impregnated with binder. As the binder acrylate based Latex Emulsion is used and the impregnation amount is 5 wt of the total weight.

By the same method the second outer layer is obtained. The average diameter and the minimum diameters of the alumina based fibers included in the first and the second outer layers are 7.2 micrometers and 3.2 micrometers respectively. The thickness and the basis weight of each layer are 0.3 mm and 60 g m respectively.

By the same method the center layer is formed. In the blowing spinning process in forming the center layer the air flow rate is 63 m s and the supplying rate of the spinning solution is 4.3 ml h. The average diameter and the minimum diameters of the alumina based fibers included in the center layer are 5.1 micrometers and 2.4 micrometers respectively. The thickness and the basis weight of each layer are 6.8 mm and 1 080 g m respectively.

Next the first outer layer the center layer and the second outer layer are joined by using a double sided adhesive tape thickness 100 micrometers provided by Beiersdor in this order to manufacture a sheet member having a three layer structure. The weight ratio of the first outer layer the center layer the second outer layer wt is 5 90 5. This example is called example 1.

By the same method as used in the example 1 a sheet member having a three layer structure is formed. But in this example the first and the second outer layers whose thicknesses and basis weights are 0.7 mm and 120 g mand the center layer whose thickness and basis weight are 6.0 mm and 960 g mare used. The weight ratio of the first outer layer the center layer the second outer layer wt is 10 80 10. This example is called example 2.

By the same method as used in the example 1 a sheet member having a three layer structure is formed. But in this example the first and the second outer layers whose thicknesses and basis weights are 0.9 mm and 180 g mand the center layer whose thickness and basis weight are 5.6 mm and 840 g mare used. The weight ratio of the first outer layer the center layer the second outer layer wt is 15 70 15. This example is called example 3.

By the same method as used in the example 1 a sheet member having a three layer structure is formed. But in this examples the first and the second outer layers whose thicknesses and basis weights are 1.4 mm and 240 g mand the center layer whose thickness and basis weight are 4.6 mm and 720 g mare used. The weight ratio of the first outer layer the center layer the second outer layer wt is 20 60 20. This example is called example 4.

By the same method as used in the example 1 a sheet member having a three layer structure is formed. But in this example the first and the second outer layers whose thicknesses and basis weights are 1.8 mm and 300 g mand the center layer whose thickness and basis weight are 3.8 mm and 600 g mare used. The weight ratio of the first outer layer the center layer the second outer layer wt is 25 50 25. This example is called example 5.

By the same method as used in the example 1 a sheet member having a three layer structure is formed. But in this example the first and the second outer layers whose thicknesses and basis weights are 2.2 mm and 360 g mand the center layer whose thickness and basis weight are 3.0 mm and 480 g mare used. The weight ratio of the first outer layer the center layer the second outer layer wt is 30 40 30. This example is called example 6.

By the same method as used in the example 1 a sheet member having a three layer structure is formed. But in this example the first and the second outer layers whose thicknesses and basis weights are 2.6 mm and 420 g mand the center layer whose thickness and basis weight are 2.2 mm and 360 g mare used. The weight ratio of the first outer layer the center layer the second outer layer wt is 35 30 35. This example is called example 7.

First an opening process of inorganic fibers is preformed. As the opening process only the dry type opening process using the Feathermill is performed. Next the obtained raw fibers are fed into a stirring device and stirred for approximately 1 minute such that the relative weight of the raw fibers to water is between 1 wt and 2 wt to prepare a mixture. Next approximately 5 wt of organic binder is added to the mixture and the mixture is stirred for approximately minute. Further approximately 0.5 wt of inorganic binder is added to the mixture and the mixture is stirred for approximately 1 minute. Still further approximately 0.5 wt of a flocculant is added to the mixture and the mixture is stirred for up to approximately 2 minutes to prepare raw slurry.

As inorganic binder alumina sol is used. As organic binder the acrylate based Latex is used. As a flocculant the Percol 292 is used.

Next the obtained raw slurry is fed into a forming device with the sizes of 800 mm 500 mm mesh size is 30 meshes for further dehydration.

Next the thus obtained formed body is removed from the forming device and is compressed using a pressing device so that the thickness becomes substantially 0.5 times the thickness before this compression and is simultaneously heated and dehydrated at a temperature of 150 C. for 5 minutes to obtain the first outer layer.

The second outer layer is also formed in the same method of forming the first outer layer. The average diameter and the minimum diameters of the alumina based fibers included in the first and the second outer layers are 7.2 micrometers and 3.2 micrometers respectively. The thickness and the basis weight of each layer are 0.8 mm and 120 g m respectively.

Further the center layer is also formed by the same method. In the opening process when the center layer is formed the dry type opening using the Fethermill is performed. The average diameter and the minimum diameters of the alumina based fibers included in the center layer are 5.1 micrometers and 2.4 micrometers respectively. The thickness and the basis weight of the layer are 6.4 mm and 960 g m respectively.

Next the first outer layer the center layer and the second outer layer are joined by using a double sided adhesive tape thickness 100 micrometers provided by Beiersdor in this order to manufacture a sheet member having a three layer structure. The weight ratio of the first outer layer the center layer the second outer layer wt is 10 80 10. This example is called example 8.

The center layer is formed by the same method as in example 1. The basis weight and the thickness of the center layer are 1 200 g mand 7.4 mm respectively. But in this comparative example no outer layers are formed therefore there is provided only a single layer of the center layer. This comparative example is called comparative example 1.

The first and the second outer layers are formed by the same method in example 1. The basis weight and the thickness of the first and the second outer layers are 600 g mand 3.7 mm respectively. In this comparative example no center layer is formed and the first outer layer and the second outer layer are joined together using a both sided adhesive tape thickness 100 micrometers provided by Beiersdor to manufacture the sheet member. The weight ratio of the first outer layer the second outer layer wt is 50 50. This comparative example is called comparative example 2.

Table 1 shows the basis weight the thickness and the weight ratio of the both outer layers and center layer and the comparative thickness of the first and second outer layers to the thickness of the sheet member in examples 1 through 8 and comparative examples 1 and 2.

A fiber air erosion test is performed on each of the obtained sheet members. The result of this test provides the prediction of the scattering status of the fine fibers when each of the sheet members are being actually handled.

The results of each sheet member are shown in Table 1. The results in Table 1 show that the scattering rate in comparative example 1 is 1.2 on the other hand the scattering rates of the sheet member in examples 1 through 8 are 0.3 or less. As a result the scattering rate of the sheet members having a three layer structure according to the embodiments of the present invention can be remarkably reduced.

A compression and restoration repeated test is performed on each of the obtained sheet members. In this test each sheet member is compressed and then restored to repeat this cycle up to 1 000 times and the change of the surface pressure of the sheet member is measured. From the result of this test the downward trend of the holding power of each of the sheet members can be comparatively evaluated.

By the following method using such a device measurements are performed. First the position of the crosshead is previously lowered to the level where there should be no significant gap capable of being easily recognized between the sample and the upper pressing member . In this position the crosshead is moved downward at a speed of 1 mm min to compress the sample . When the bulk density of the sample reaches 0.4 g cm the load applied to the sample is measured. The bulk density of the sample is calculated by the following equation Bulk density 

E distance between upper pressing member and lower tray member The obtained load is divided by the area of the sample to obtain the compression pressure kPa .

Next the crosshead is moved upward at a speed of 1 mm min to restore the sample . When the bulk density of the sample reaches 0.367 g cm the load applied to the sample is measured. The obtained load is divided by the area of the sample to obtain a restoration pressure kPa . This test cycle compress and restore is repeated 1 000 times to measure the changes of the values of the compression pressure and the restoration pressure. The same measurement is repeated three times for each of the samples to obtain the average values. The averaged values are used as the result of the test.

The obtained results of each of the samples are shown in and Table 1. In the horizontal axis represents the weight ratio wt of the outer layer s with respect to the weight of the sheet member. The vertical axes in and represent the restoration pressure kPa and a pressure reduction rate respectively after 1 000 times repetition of the test cycle. The pressure reduction rate is calculated by the following equation Pressure reduction rate F G

Further in the horizontal axis represents a thickness ratio of the outer layers with respect to the total thickness The vertical axes in and represent the restoration pressure kPa and a pressure reduction rate respectively after 1 000 repetitions of the test cycle.

A result of the test shows that the restoration pressure of the sheet member in comparative example 2 is reduced by as much as 68.8 . In contrast the restoration pressure of the sheet members after 1 000 repetitions of the test cycle in examples 1 through 8 according to the embodiment of the present invention are maintained at higher levels and the maximum pressure reducing rate among them is 66.3 .

Specifically the values of the pressure reduction rate of the sheet members in examples 1 through 5 and 8 weight ratio of the outer layers 10 50 wt thickness ratio of the outer layers 8 50 after 1 000 repetitions of the test cycle are less than 62.6 thereby showing sufficient reduction attenuation effect of the pressure. More specifically the values of the pressure reduction rate of the sheet members in examples 1 2 and 8 weight ratio of the outer layers 10 20 wt thickness ratio of the outer layers 8 22 are in the range between 51.3 and 53.6 which are low reducing rates since the obtained rate values are comparable with 50.4 which is the rate value of a conventional sheet member obtained in comparative example 1 .

According to the result in when the weight ratio W of the amount of the first and the second outer layers with respect to the total weight of the entire sheet is in a range greater than 50 wt the pressure reduction rate is apt to asymptotically approach the maximum value 68.8 in comparative example 2 . Further when the weight ratio W is in a range equal to or less than 20 wt the pressure reduction rate is apt to asymptotically approach the minimum value 50.4 in comparative example 1 .

Similarly according to the result in when the thickness ratio t of the amount of the first and the second outer layers with respect to the total thickness of the entire sheet is in a range greater than 50 the pressure reduction rate is apt to asymptotically approach the maximum value 68.8 in comparative example 2 . Further when the thickness ratio t is in a range equal to or less than 20 the pressure reduction rate is apt to asymptotically approach the minimum value 50.4 in comparative example 1 .

According to the above results the weight ratio W of the amount of the first and the second outer layers with respect to the total weight of the entire sheet is preferably in a range of greater than 0 wt to equal to or less than 50 wt and more preferably in a range of greater than 0 wt to equal to or less than 20 wt . Further the thickness ratio t of the amount of the first and the second outer layers with respect to the total thickness of the entire sheet is preferably in a range greater than 0 to equal to or less than 50 and more preferably in a range of greater than 0 to equal to or less than 20 . However as described above practically it is conceived that the weight ratio of the outer layers W is equal to or greater than 2 wt and the thickness ratio of the outer layers t is equal to or greater than 1 .

The sheet member according to the embodiments of the present invention is applicable to for example an exhaust gas treatment apparatus a holding and sealing member and a heat insulating member for a vehicle and a sound absorber of a muffling apparatus.

Obviously numerous modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein.

