---

title: Controller lighting activation by proximity and motion
abstract: Mechanisms for controlling lighting activation by taking into account proximity and motion data are disclosed. Controllers can have cosmetic and/or functional lighting that can be controlled by proximity detectors and/or motion detectors, and such lighting can vary in color, intensity, and/or pattern. Proximity detectors can use capacitance, lighting, and/or sound data to determine the proximity of objects to the controllers, and motion detectors can use accelerometers and/or gyroscopes to determine the motion of such controllers. Additionally, controllers can start radio frequency communications with gaming consoles based on proximity and/or motion data. One benefit of such proximity and/or motion light control is battery conservation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08355003&OS=08355003&RS=08355003
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08355003
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080613
---
The present application may be related in subject matter to the following application U.S. Publication No. 2007 0296701 U.S. Ser. No. 11 474 119 entitled Input Device Having a Presence Sensor. 

A portion of the disclosure of this document may contain material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice shall apply to this document Copyright 2008 Microsoft Corp.

The presently disclosed subject matter relates to the field of computing and more particularly to fields such as gaming although this is merely an exemplary and non limiting field.

For some gaming accessories lighting can be a important part of the experience of using the devices. Both cosmetic and functional lighting can be an integral part of any gaming device. The use of lighting can be enhanced if various systems and methods are used to control such lighting based on user context for example based on whether users are holding gaming devices or not based on how close such devices are to users and based on the motion of such devices when handled by users. To this end it would be advantageous to provide various mechanisms for controlling lighting activation by taking into account user proximity and motion.

Various mechanisms are provided herein for controlling lighting activation by taking into account proximity and motion data. Controllers can have cosmetic and or functional lighting that can be controlled by proximity detectors and or motion detectors. Proximity detectors can use a predetermined standard such as capacitance light including visible light or infrared light or ultrasonic sound in order to determine the proximity of objects whether users of gaming systems or any individuals to the controllers. Motion detectors can use accelerometers and or gyroscopes to determine the motion of such controllers. In some aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter controllers can start radio frequency communications with gaming consoles based on proximity and or motion data. In other aspects such proximity and or motion controlled lighting can vary in color intensity and or pattern.

It should be noted that this Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Various mechanisms are presented herein including systems methods computer readable media and so forth for the controlling of lighting on various controller devices although hardware device are not the only type of entities considered herein since software modules are also contemplated . By way of example proximity detectors and motion detectors can be used to ensure that the lighting levels on controllers are appropriate for a given situation. If users are close to approaching or actually touching a controller the lighting level on the controller can change automatically e.g. from an off state or dimmed state to an on state . Similarly if users are moving a controller in a certain direction or at all the lighting level can change. Various ways to control lighting are presented herein however other equivalent manners to controlling lighting are also contemplated herein as those of skill in the art would readily appreciate.

In these controllers lighting levels can be controlled by the console via some radio frequency communications. Thus the traditional controller can display on and off lighting and provide other feedback mechanisms such as vibrations. However none of the controllers in have lighting that is controlled based on input for any one or a combination of proximity detectors and or motion detectors.

In contrast illustrates that in one aspect of the present disclosure the lighting on controllers can be controlled by motion and or proximity detection. For example a traditional gaming controller can have a plurality of lights that light up when motion is sensed. In the alternative or even additionally controllers can also light up when they sense the proximity of objects such as individuals or users of the console but not limited thereto . Thus a microphone controller device can light up when it senses that a user of the gaming system is nearby such as being a predetermined distance X away .

In any of the shown controllers can employ any one or a combination of motion detection and or proximity detection . Various heuristics can be used regarding how the output of such detection will be used. For example in the case of controller e.g. a microphone when a user either approaches or recedes from is near to or touches controller it can light up per proximity detection . Then as the user is singing into controller motion detection can additionally control any lighting so that when controller is held still one level and one type of lighting can be displayed e.g. green light but when the users starts to wildly move controller around various other colors e.g. strobe like lighting with various colors can start to light up controller . This is of course a merely exemplary heuristic the point being that motion detection and or proximity detection can be used in any manner alone or in combination to control any lighting on the shown controllers .

Next illustrates an exemplary system that could implement the shown set up in . A light activation system could comprise a proximity detector configured to determine proximity based on a predetermined standard such as capacitance light including visible light or infrared light ultrasonic sound or radar . Proximity could be detected substantially around and on e.g. touching a controller device. The system could also comprise a motion detector configured to detect the motion of a controller device where the motion could be determined from the output of an accelerometer device and or a gyroscope device installed in the controller this could be in a single axis front to back or multiple axes X Y Z Roll Pitch Yaw devices . The system could have functional lighting that could be used as part of a game e.g. singing into a microphone in response to cues given by a game or mere cosmetic lighting that may not serve any functional purpose but that may be aesthetically pleasing. Additional functional devices are also contemplated herein such as acoustic vibrational visual musical and other devices that could work in concert with the functional lighting and cosmetic lighting .

The lighting activation system could also include a manager component that can govern or control the proximity detector the motion detector the cosmetic and functional lighting as well as any additional functional devices . The manager component could be configured to receive input data from the proximity detector and input data from the motion detector . And it could be further configured to determine at least one of whether an object such as an individual is holding a controller device is near a controller device and or is approaching a controller device based on the input data from the proximity detector . Additionally the manager component could be configured to determine whether and how a controller device is being moved by an individual based on the input data from said motion detector. Together the proximity and motion data could give a controller device enough information to determine when an individual wants to use the controller device and hence preemptively light itself up . Thus the manager component could be further configured to control the lighting level of at least one light of a plurality of lights on a controller device based on the input data from the proximity detector and the motion detector. As mentioned other devices could provide additional data for better accuracy of turning lights at the correct time.

There are various aspects to the light activation system . By way of example the lighting level of any controller can be set to at least one of a maximum setting an off setting and a range of dimmed settings in between the maximum setting and the off setting. In general controller lighting can encompass a spectrum of different light intensities colors and or patterns. For example with respect to light intensities they can be controlled via pulse width modulation.

In another aspect of the present disclosure whether an individual is holding a controller device can be based on a first capacitance level and whether an individual is near a controller device can be based on a second capacitance level. Thus a first threshold level for capacitance can be designated as the equivalent of holding a controller device say X picofarads. Similarly a second threshold level for capacitance can be designated as the equivalent of for being near a controller device say Y picofarads which may translate to three inches in distance between a controller device and an individual. Finally whether an individual is approaching a controller device can be based on a changing capacitance level. Thus if the capacitance level is changing from a first value say A to a second value say B then it can be inferred that an individual is approaching a controller. It should be noted however that other predetermined standards other than capacitance could be used light sound etc. as mentioned above . In this scenario lights on the controller device can be turned on whether instantly or gradually depending on the implementation . For instance the lights on the controller device can get brighter and brighter as an individual is approaching closer and closer to the controller.

In still another aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter whether a controller device is being moved by an individual can be based on acceleration data and or gyroscope data levels. For instance certain threshold levels can be set that can correspond to movement of a controller. Thus a determination can be made right away whether a controller has been moved at all. Moreover how a controller device is being moved in three dimensional space by an individual can be based on a changing acceleration data and or gyroscope data. For instance various changes in acceleration can help to determine how far a controller device has moved and various changes in gyroscope data can help to determine the orientation of a controller device. Together the accelerometer and gyroscope data can track a controller s movement in space and this data can then be used as a basis for controlling lighting on the controller device not to mention that such data can also affect the content of a game playing on a remote console with which the controller device is communicating .

In one aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter a controller device can be configured to control at least one light of a plurality of lights based on motion of an individual who is holding the controller. In another aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter a controller device can be configured to control at least one light of a plurality of lights based on movement of content in a game. Thus character movement or song content in a game can be reflected in the lighting on the controller device. Thus in general terms not only can objects in the real world have impact on the lighting of a controller device e.g. game users moving about the controller but additionally objects in the virtual world viz. game content can have impact on the lighting of the controller device. One real world example might be a karaoke game that can dictate when users should start singing into a microphone by lighting up the microphone. Users can move the microphone around and the lighting might change in response to the movement in color intensity and pattern . Finally when users put down the microphone the lighting can be dimmed or turned off entirely depending on the implementation.

The aforementioned manager component that is part of the overall lighting activation system can reside in a variety of places. While the proximity detector and the motion detector could reside inside a controller device the actual manager could reside either wholly inside the controller wholly outside the controller such as in a gaming console or partly inside the controller and party inside the console depending on the implementation.

In another aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter the controller device could start radio frequency communications between a gaming console and the controller device based on data from a proximity detector. Thus if the controller device detected that a user was approaching the controller device it could start radio frequency communications with the console resulting in the appearance to the user that the connection was either instantaneous or already pre existing. This setup would be beneficial in saving battery life since in actuality the controller device would not have to maintain communications with the console but only start to initiate them when users were approaching the controller i.e. intending to use the controller to start playing games on the console . Thus in one aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter the communications could be started before an individual touches a controller.

As for the controller device itself it could be any one or a combination of a a traditional gaming controller b a joystick c a steering wheel d a microphone and e a music device not shown in or f any accessory device capable of interfacing with a gaming console such as a physical gesture device e.g. a balance exercise board or any device that conveys physical gesture data .

In another aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter illustrates a first aspect of one exemplary type of peripheral device that could implement lighting features based on proximity and motion. shows a traditional controller device shown in FIG. controller . However it should be understood that any type of controller or accessory to a console can employ the lighting activation mechanisms described above.

Per controller can have lighting A on the top of the controller on the inside side as shown by lighting B on the outside side as shown by lighting D on certain or all buttons as shown by lighting C and so on. The lighting can be located anywhere on controller whether such lighting is used for cosmetic aesthetic purposes or for functional purposes. Similarly the proximity and motion detectors can be located anywhere on or on the inside of controller . For example the detectors can be located near the center of mass of the controller yet in other aspects they can be located elsewhere depending on the implementation .

Next further illustrates a second aspect of the one exemplary type of peripheral device shown in . In controller could have lighting E located on the underside of controller and it could have proximity and motion detectors located on sides or center of controller . In one aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter the proximity and or motion detector B could be removable from or added to controller much in a similar manner to which batteries are added or removed from controllers. In any event it should be noted that the lighting and proximity and motion devices could be located anywhere on and anywhere in controller device .

In another aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter an exemplary method could be implemented for controlling lighting activation on controller devices configured to communicate with remote gaming consoles. However it should be understood that similar systems computer readable media and other mechanisms could be used to carry out this aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter. At block a proximity detector could be used to detect capacitance about a controller device. This detection could be done on the surface of the controller or extend to some close distance from the controller e.g. several inches or centimeters . Next at block the results of the detection could be forwarded to a manager component that could process the results and use this data as a basis for controlling lighting activation on the controller.

Similarly at block a motion detector could be used to detect the movement of the controller device. As was mentioned above various devices could be used by the motion detector to accomplish this goal including but not limited to an accelerometer and or a gyroscope. At block the results could be forwarded from the motion detector to a manager component. Again the manager component could use the forwarded data to control lighting activation on the controller device. It should be noted that the manager component could use the proximity data alone or the motion data alone to activate any lighting. In the alternative the manager component could use a combination of the proximity data and the motion data to control lighting. In still other aspects of the disclosed subject matter this combination along with data from other devices could be used depending on the implementation and the level of accuracy desired.

Thus block shows that the above mentioned results could be processed by the manager component to display cosmetic and or functional lighting according to some desired heuristic. Such heuristics can vary depending on the content of a game being played on a console. For instance steering wheel lights in a racing game can subscribe to different heuristics than microphone lights in a karaoke game. Heuristics can be based on how fast a controller device is moved how far away it is from a users a combination of movement and location and other motion based parameters that could also be the basis for heuristics direction of travel orientation with respect to gravity distance from a reference point timing of motion in rhythm with music for example and so on.

At block the lighting level could be set to a level that is at least one of a a maximum light level b a minimum light level and c a intermediate light level between the maximum light level and the minimum light level. In one aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter upon detection of motion and or proximity communications could be initiated between the controller device and a gaming console after processing at least one of the results from the proximity detector and the results from the motion detector. This option depicted in block could decrease perceived sync up time by users between controllers and consoles. In fact such communications could actually be initiated before any user even touches a controller device or as a user is approaching a controller device as is shown at block .

For example the fourth set of instructions can further control the level of lighting on the controller device that includes dimmed lighting as shown at block . Alternatively a fifth set of instructions can initiate communications between the controller device and a console based on results from at least one of the detection of objects by their proximity and the detection of motion of said controller device in order to give the appearance that such communications are established instantaneously as shown at block . Additionally a sixth set of instructions can be configured to control the lighting on the controller device at least partly based on content in a game title running on a remote gaming console as shown at block . Other instructions can also be included based on the above provided disclosure.

The above discussed computing devices and accessories can be embodied as gaming consoles music players personal computers controllers remote control devices and other such devices having different similar or the same platforms. Referring to a block diagram shows an exemplary multimedia console that can be used in conjunction with the various accessories with lighting activation by proximity and motion capabilities.

This console which includes a game oriented console or a PC can comprise for example digital audio processing functionality. Specifically in a multimedia console is shown with a central processing unit CPU having a level 1 L1 cache a level 2 L2 cache and a flash ROM Read only Memory . The level 1 cache and level 2 cache can temporarily store data and hence reduce the number of memory access cycles thereby improving processing speed and throughput. The flash ROM can store executable code that is loaded during an initial phase of a boot process when the multimedia console is powered. Alternatively the executable code that is loaded during the initial boot phase can be stored in a flash memory device not shown . Further ROM can be located separately from the CPU . These memory devices can cache parts or the entirety of the above mentioned applications programs applets managed code and so on. Moreover these memory devices can store sensitive and non sensitive information on a memory unit by memory unit basis as was discussed above. Any of such information can be used at least in part to aid in activating lighting by proximity and motion.

A graphics processing unit GPU and a video encoder video codec coder decoder can form a video processing pipeline for high speed and high resolution graphics processing. Data can be carried from the graphics processing unit to the video encoder video codec via a bus. The video processing pipeline can output data to an A V audio video port for transmission to a television or other display. A memory controller can be connected to the GPU and CPU to facilitate processor access to various types of memory such as but not limited to a RAM Random Access Memory . Thus various types of information whether sensitive or not or even parts of various types of information can be stored in the various types of memories discussed above depending on the need.

The multimedia console can include an I O controller a system management controller an audio processing unit a network interface controller a first USB host controller a second USB controller and a front panel I O subassembly that can be preferably implemented on a module . The USB controllers and can serve as hosts for peripheral controllers a wireless adapter and an external memory unit e.g. flash memory external CD DVD ROM drive removable media etc. . Such peripheral controllers can have various types of lighting displays that is triggered by proximity and motion. Moreover the network interface and or wireless adapter can provide access to a network e.g. the Internet home network etc. and can be any of a wide variety of various wired or wireless interface components including an Ethernet card a modem a Bluetooth module a cable modem and the like.

System memory can be provided to store application data that is loaded during the boot process. A media drive can be provided and can comprise a DVD CD drive hard drive or other removable media drive etc. The media drive can be internal or external to the multimedia console . Application data can be accessed via the media drive for execution playback etc. by the multimedia console . The media drive can be connected to the I O controller via a bus such as a Serial ATA bus or other high speed connection e.g. IEEE 1394 . Additional to such application data other information can be stored on the console that will aid in the communication between peripheral accessory device controllers and the console itself.

The system management controller can provide a variety of service functions to assure the availability of the multimedia console . The audio processing unit and an audio codec can form a corresponding audio processing pipeline with high fidelity 3D surround and stereo audio processing according to aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter above. Audio data can be carried between the audio processing unit and the audio codec via a communication link. The audio processing pipeline can output data to the A V port for reproduction by an external audio player or device having audio capabilities.

The front panel I O subassembly can support the functionality of the power button and the eject button as well as any LEDs light emitting diodes or other indicators exposed on the outer surface of the multimedia console . Thus the proximity and motion lighting discussed herein is not limited to the peripheral accessory devices but also extends to the console itself and to other computing devices. A system power supply module can provide power to the components of the multimedia console . A fan can cool the circuitry within the multimedia console .

The CPU GPU memory controller and various other components within the multimedia console can be interconnected via one or more buses including serial and parallel buses a memory bus a peripheral bus and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

When the multimedia console is powered on or rebooted application data can be loaded from the system memory into memory and or caches and executed on the CPU . Such application data can include some of the online derived data. The application can also present a graphical user interface that provides a consistent user experience when navigating to different media types available on the multimedia console . In operation applications and or other media contained within the media drive can be launched or played from the media drive to provide additional functionalities to the multimedia console .

The multimedia console can be operated as a standalone system by simply connecting the system to a television or other display. In this standalone mode the multimedia console can allow one or more users to interact with the system watch movies listen to music and the like. However with the integration of broadband connectivity made available through the network interface or the wireless adapter the multimedia console can further be operated as a participant in a larger network community of computing devices. As such a participant it can interact with computing devices whether PCs or servers and receive information that can be eventually stored.

Next illustrates an exemplary networking environment for subject matter discussed with reference to . The above discussed console can correspond to any one of the aforementioned computing devices or it can be distributed over such devices. It can interact with various other objects and storage devices via a communications network bus where such objects and devices can correspond to other computing devices whether hardware firmware or software . The controllers can communicate with the console in a wired manner or wirelessly over close distances or over remote distances using the shown communications network . Such communication can be aided by various computing devices connected to the communications network .

Finally it should also be noted that the various techniques described herein can be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof can take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible storage media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium where when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the subject matter.

In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device can generally include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that can utilize the creation and or implementation of domain specific programming models aspects of the present invention e.g. through the use of a data processing application programming interface API or the like are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language can be a compiled or interpreted language and combined.

Finally while the present disclosure has been described in connection with a plurality of exemplary aspects as illustrated in the various figures and discussed above it is understood that other similar aspects can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described aspects for performing the same function of the present disclosure without deviating therefrom. For example in various aspects of the disclosure methods systems and computer readable media were described configured for providing lighting to electronic devices by taking proximity and motion into account. However other equivalent mechanisms to these described aspects are also contemplated by the teachings herein. Therefore the present disclosure should not be limited to any single aspect but rather construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

