---

title: Variable intensity LED illumination system
abstract: A variable intensity LED illumination system is configured to provide a change in luminance versus input voltage that corresponds to a desired transfer function, such as the dimming characteristics of an incandescent lamp, which more closely resembles the response of the human eye. The system also advantageously provides overvoltage protection, increased brightness, energy efficiency, and significantly better longevity and ruggedness, compared to incandescent lamps.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08004216&OS=08004216&RS=08004216
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08004216
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080502
---
The present invention relates generally to variable intensity light sources and more particularly to a light emitting diode illumination system that can be configured to predetermined luminescence vs. supply voltage characteristics.

LED light sources are rapidly replacing incandescent and fluorescent light sources in many applications. The term light emitting diode LED is used to refer to a semiconducting material impregnated or doped with impurities to create a p n junction capable of emitting light and includes both a laser diode and a spontaneously emitting LED. LED light sources are much more efficient are more rugged and have longer life cycles produce little heat are generally smaller and are lighter in weight than their incandescent counterparts.

Despite their many advantages conventional LED light sources have some limitations. In particular LEDs are not well suited to applications that require variable intensity. Conventional incandescent bulbs work well in such applications because their luminous intensity varies exponentially in response to a linear change in voltage closely matching the response of the human visual system. Changes in luminance of four orders of magnitude can be achieved with incandescent light sources. LEDs however essentially provide a linear change in intensity in proportion to a change in current and variability over only two orders of magnitude is typically achieved. The luminous intensity of a conventional LED thus appears to the eye to change slowly at higher light levels and abruptly at lower levels of luminance when an LED light source is placed in a conventional dimming circuit. Embodiments according to the present invention are directed to solving these problems by providing an LED light source that may be configured to vary in intensity according to a predetermined voltage to luminance transfer function to provide dimming characteristics that are closer to the response of the human eye and over the full four orders of luminance change.

In general in one aspect an embodiment of a variable intensity LED light system according to the present invention includes a number of circuit legs coupled in parallel. Each of the circuit legs includes a current limiting device in series with a first circuit element that provides a distinct voltage set point for that circuit leg and a second circuit element that provides a regulated voltage. An LED is coupled in parallel with the second circuit element of each circuit leg. In general the regulated voltage of the second circuit element is greater than the forward voltage drop of the LED. The distinct voltage set points of the first circuit elements and the resistances of the current limiting devices are calibrated to correspond to points on a target luminance versus voltage curve. The target luminance versus voltage curve may approximate luminance versus voltage curve for an incandescent lamp. In another aspect an embodiment of a variable intensity LED light system according to the present invention includes an additional circuit leg coupled in parallel with the plurality of circuit legs in which the additional circuit leg has a resistor in series with a Zener diode that provides a regulated voltage and an LED coupled in parallel with the Zener diode This additional circuit leg is provided for low luminance operation.

In general in another aspect an embodiment of a method for varying the intensity of an LED lighting system in response to a change in supply voltage includes providing a plurality of circuit legs each having a first node for coupling to a positive terminal of a variable voltage DC source a second node for coupling to the anode of an LED and a third node for coupling to the cathode of the LED and to a negative terminal of the variable voltage DC source. The method further includes providing a current limiting device in each circuit leg having a resistance to limit the current delivered to the LED to a predetermined value providing a first circuit element in each circuit leg which at a given supply voltage changes from a high impedance to a low impedance when a voltage set point has been exceeded at the input node and a second circuit element in each circuit leg to regulate the voltage across the LED. In another aspect the method for varying the intensity of an LED lighting system in response to a change in supply voltage includes providing an additional circuit leg coupled in parallel with the plurality of circuit legs in which the additional circuit leg has a resistor in series with a Zener diode that provides a regulated voltage and an LED coupled in parallel with the Zener diode.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which are a part of this patent disclosure and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention as claimed may be practiced. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.

LED illumination system includes four LED circuit legs coupled to second Zener diodes which function as fixed voltage sources for LEDs coupled to each circuit leg. Each LED circuit leg includes a resistor coupled to positive input node which act as current limiting devices.

Resistors are each in series with first Zener diodes which in turn are in series with second Zener diodes coupled to ground node . First Zener diodes and second Zener diodes are oriented to operate in conventional reverse breakdown mode.

LEDs are coupled in parallel with corresponding second Zener diodes of each circuit leg at coupling nodes and respectively. Second Zener diodes are selected to have Zener voltages sufficient to ensure voltages across LEDs are in excess of the LEDs forward voltage drops. For example in LED illumination system a Zener voltage of about 5.1 volts has been selected for Zener diodes since LEDs have turn on voltages of between 3.5V to 4.1V. Second Zener diodes also provide over voltage spike protection for LEDs by safely shunting away any transients that might otherwise damage the LEDs.

Since as noted above the luminance of an LED is proportional to current a luminance voltage characteristic of an LED illumination system according to the present invention may be approximated by taking the current through each of the LEDs at a given supply voltage and using the luminance versus current curve from the LED manufacturer to establish individual LED luminance outputs. The luminance of an LED illumination system may then be determined by summing the luminance of each of the LED circuit legs. Current supplied to LEDs in circuit legs is controlled by the value of current limiting resistors . Current limiting resistors are selected so that the sum of the currents through each LED will deliver a combined luminance from the LEDs corresponding to target luminances at voltage set points.

LED illumination system is designed to approximate a luminance versus supply voltage profile for a small low voltage incandescent lamp. In this example as shown on graph of four set points were selected to model the luminance versus supply voltage profile for a typical incandescent Miniature Lamp ML 327 327. The No. 327 lamp or peanut bulb is used in many aircraft instrumentation lighting applications. A Curve on graph shows a luminance versus supply voltage profile averaged from a sample of six No. 327 lamps. A curve represents the actual luminance versus supply voltage characteristics measured for a prototype variable intensity LED illumination system according to the present invention. As can be seen from curve the prototype provides higher luminescence in the higher voltage range compared to the incandescent lamp. This represents a design improvement for any application where sunlight backlighting provides difficulty in seeing instrument indicators.

Some adjustment of resistor values may be required after the luminance from LED illumination system is measured to compensate for performance characteristics of components. Accordingly the actual luminance curve for a particular implementation should be verified experimentally to allow for any changes that may result from variations in component specifications.

The voltage set points for circuit legs are determined by summing the Zener voltage of first Zener diodes with the Zener voltage of second Zener diodes in their respective circuit legs . Voltage set points for the prototype of LED illumination system are as follows LED circuit leg 10.7 volts LED circuit leg 15.1V LED circuit leg 18.1V and LED circuit leg 23.1V.

The use of four set points and four LEDs provides a good approximation of the voltage versus luminous intensity characteristics of the No. 327 lamp. In alternative embodiments more or fewer set points circuit legs and LEDs may be employed depending on the requirements of a particular application. Other luminance profiles may similarly be modeled in alternative embodiments.

In many lighting applications a white or yellow white light is desired. Typically white LEDs use a blue emitting chip in conjunction with a light converter such as yellow phosphor which absorbs the blue light and emits white or yellow white light. In this embodiment LEDs are InGaN blue with a yellow phosphor blob coating. InGaN LEDs have high intensity and excellent reliability. The yellow phosphor coating converts the blue light emitted by the LED to a white light spectrum but also advantageously has reduced output in the infrared range.

LEDs emitting other light colors or combinations of colors may likewise be employed in alternative embodiments.

A wide variety of stock LEDs may be used in embodiments of variable intensity LED illumination systems according to the present invention depending on the requirements of a particular application. For the prototype LED illumination system a Fairchild FOLF598CIWTR commonly used in camera flash applications was selected. The Fairchild package was chosen based on its availability small size packaging performance characteristics luminance and price. The Fairchild FOLF598CIWTR provides an array of four InGaN LEDs mounted on a circuit board. Another LED that may be used is a discrete surface mounted LED manufactured by Dominant. The Dominant LEDs are significantly less expensive at the present time and provide comparable performance.

The details of construction of a lamp incorporating an LED illumination system according to the present invention will now be described. Lamp shown in perspective in is designed as a replacement for the No. 327 instrumentation lamp.

The exterior dimensions of lamp correspond to the exterior dimensions of a conventional No. 327 instrumentation light bulb in accordance with MS25237 and multiple industry supplier data. Lamp includes an envelope or lens of a clear polycarbonate injection molded material having a domed top portion and a cylindrical sidewall extending down and terminating at a lower edge . At approximately the midpoint of sidewall a ridge projects radially outwardly to a widened bottom portion of sidewall and continues to lower edge . Ridge provides a stop to engage a corresponding inwardly projecting rim formed at the top of a cylindrical metal sleeve that is dimensioned to slide mount over the dome of lens and cover the bottom portion of sidewall . Sleeve extends a short distance down beyond edge where it flares out to provide a mount for a disc shaped base of a phenolic insulating material.

In a variety of aircraft applications it is desirable to reduce the infrared output of instrumentation lamps. Although the infrared output of LEDs is already significantly lower then that of a comparable No. 327 incandescent lamp infrared output may be further reduced by the addition of an infrared inhibitor to the clear polycarbonate material of lens .

Internally lamp includes two wiring boards a disc shaped printed wiring board PWB for mounting LEDs LED board and a PWB for mounting LED driver components of LED illumination system Driver Board . PWBs and are conventional circuit boards formed of a dielectric resinous substrate material over which a conductive layer such as copper gold or aluminum is applied and etched to form traces for electrically coupling components mounted thereto. Driver board is mounted edgewise perpendicularly beneath PWB inside of lamp .

PWB is positioned perpendicularly to PWB and is mounted edgewise to the bottom of PWB by soldering contacts and to pad on PWB . A good electrical coupling of the two boards is all that is required to attach the boards at this stage since a potting compound will be added during final assembly to secure and protect all of the internal components. Two radially opposing alignment slots are formed in sidewall of lens and extend up from lower edge to just above the ridge only one is shown in the perspective view of . Slots are dimensioned to engage the outer edges of PWB and are cut deep enough to ensure that the top surface of PWB lies at or above ridge when PWB is inserted.

After PWBs and have been joined together and inserted into slots a suitable potting compound such as CONAP epoxy or similar is injected into the bottom area of to secure the boards in position encapsulate all components. Potting compound seals out moisture prevents corrosion and provides vibration damping and electrical insulation. Potting compound should have a low coefficient of thermal expansion.

After the potting compound has been added base is affixed to the bottom of sleeve . Base includes an axial hole that is centered over a positive power terminal on PWB . A positive center terminal is formed by soldering a contact in an eyelet . Center terminal is electrically coupled to positive power terminal .

PWBs and are designed for surface mount components however in alternative embodiments leaded components may be employed as well as a number of alternative component layouts. In still other embodiments components such as resistors may be formed directly on the substrate such as by an inking process or the like. In yet other embodiments some or all of the components of an LED illumination system according to the present invention may be incorporated in an integrated circuit.

Operation of an embodiment of a variable intensity LED illumination system according to the present invention is substantially as follows. When supply voltage is at its maximum value Zener diodes and are in a low impedance reverse breakdown state and LEDs are in a forward biased light emitting state. Current through Zener diodes is enough to maintain the Zener voltage of 5.1V with current divided according to the impedance of the zener diode and the associated LEDs that are in parallel with the zener diodes. As supply voltage is reduced the circuit legs turn off at the voltage set points one by one and overall luminance is correspondingly reduced.

Embodiments according to the present invention may be configured to approximate the luminance voltage characteristics of a conventional incandescent bulb or to conform to a variety of other luminance to voltage transfer functions.

Embodiments according to the present invention also require less current have substantially longer life cycles and better ruggedness compared to incandescent bulbs. A further advantage of embodiments of variable intensity LED illumination systems according to the present invention is the ability to provide higher intensity luminance compared to conventional incandescent lamps resulting in better visibility of instrument dials and the like when high ambient backlight conditions exist.

Embodiments of voltage variable programmable intensity LED illumination systems according to the present invention provide significant improvements over existing variable intensity light systems and are capable of being programmed to closely match a number of different intensity response curves including the intensity response curve of the human visual system. It will be clear to one skilled in the art that the above embodiments may be altered in many ways without departing from the scope of the invention. Although embodiments described herein have been described in terms of off the shelf surface mount components mounted to a printed wiring board other assembly and packaging techniques and technologies may be employed in alternative embodiments based on production quantities cost considerations and the like. For example where production quantities are sufficiently large application specific monolithic or hybrid integrated circuit designs may be employed to realize variable intensity LED illumination systems according to the present invention. In other alternative embodiments a stand alone driver circuit for a separable array of LEDs may be provided. Likewise a number of different lamps of different voltage ranges or having leads or different socketing arrangements may be produced in alternative embodiments of voltage variable programmable intensity LED light systems according to the present invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be determined by the following claims and their legal equivalents.

