---

title: Systems and methods for mapping event changes in network navigation
abstract: In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure, systems and methods for mapping user experiences over a network include obtaining path data related to a first sequence of user navigation events, obtaining path data related to a second sequence of user navigation events that is at least different than the first sequence of user navigation events, comparing path data of the first and second sequences of user navigation events, identifying changes to the path data, and generating a map of the user navigation events based on the identified changes to the path data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08032591&OS=08032591&RS=08032591
owner: eBay, Inc.
number: 08032591
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080625
---
This application is related to Ser. No. 12 145 865 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MAPPING USER EXPERIENCES IN NETWORK NAVIGATION filed Jun. 25 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to mapping user experiences over a network and more particularly to mapping event changes in network navigation.

In many online environments a user navigates through selectable pages of service provider sites to view information resources execute sales transactions and or communicate with other users. The service provider benefits from efficiently organizing links between pages and other sites to improve user experiences. However the service provider may need to periodically update the site which may change the user s experiences. In view of these changes analysis may indicate the need for improved navigation.

In the past it has been difficult to study the affect of navigational changes to sites in reference to some user experiences. For example deleting and adding pages can generate large amounts of data that may be difficult to track and analyze. Thus there is a need for easily visualizing aggregated site traffic patterns after updates have been implemented that efficiently reflect changes in user navigational patterns.

Systems and methods disclosed herein in accordance with one or more embodiments map user experiences over a network such as the Internet by providing directed graphs of network diagrams that indicate network nodes and directional links between network nodes for network optimization analysis. In various implementations mapping user experiences refers to generating one or more visual representations of network traffic data relevant to tracking website usage. This enables a clear and simple analysis of website usage patterns for purposes of streamlining and optimizing website operation.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure a system for mapping user experiences over a network includes a first component adapted to communicate with a user via a client device over the network and a second component adapted to track user navigation events of the user over the network obtain path data related to a plurality of sequences of the user navigation events identify changes to the path data and generate a map of the user navigation events based on the identified changes to the path data.

In various implementations the plurality of sequences of user navigation events includes a first sequence of user navigation events and a second sequence of user navigation events that is at least different than the first sequence of user navigation events. The second component is adapted to compare the path data of the first and second sequences of user navigation events. The second component may be adapted to identify changes to the path data based on the comparison and generate a map of the user navigation events based on the identified changes to the compared path data. The second component may be adapted to maintain a user sequence log that tracks the user navigation events over the network.

In various implementations the system may include a storage component adapted to store at least one of the user navigation events over the network the path data the changes to the path data and the map of the user navigation events. The system may include a display component adapted to display at least one of the user navigation events over the network the path data the changes to the path data and the map of the user navigation events. In one aspect the map includes visual path data of the user navigation events.

In various implementations the first component may be adapted to communicate with a resource provider via a resource device over the network and the second component may be adapted to track user navigation events of the user over the network via the resource provider. The second component may be adapted to track the user navigation events of the user through a network site of the resource provider. The resource provider may include an information resource provider and or a marketplace provider. The resource device may include a resource server adapted to communicate with the client device and the second component via the network. The client device may include a browser application adapted to allow the user to access the resource device via the network and navigate through a plurality of resource pages made available on a network site by the resource provider.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure a method for mapping user experiences over a network includes obtaining path data related to a first sequence of user navigation events obtaining path data related to a second sequence of user navigation events that is at least different than the first sequence of user navigation events comparing path data of the first and second sequences of user navigation events identifying changes to the path data and generating a map of the user navigation events based on the identified changes to the path data.

In various implementations the method may include tracking user navigation events on the network by communicating with at least one of a user via a client device over the network and a resource provider via a resource device over the network. The method may include obtaining path data comprises communicating with at least one of a user via a client device over the network and a resource provider via a resource device over the network.

These and other features and advantages of the present disclosure will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure relates to visual representation of network data relevant to tracking website usage which enables analysis of website usage patterns for purposes of streamlining and optimizing website network operation. In various embodiments the network refers to a website network of pages and or objects that a user navigates through to generate website usage patterns. In some embodiments Internet traffic may be mapped.

In one implementation repeated or recurring visits to a particular webpage are identified to simplify network traffic visualization. These repeated visits are referred to in singular as an eddy or in plural as eddies. As such eddy mapping refers to generating a network traffic visualization in form of a graph e.g. a directed graph that may be easily viewed by a user. In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure eddy mapping is disclosed in greater detail herein with reference to the drawings.

In another implementation the sequence of network traffic on a particular website may change over time based on re routing of network nodes and or deleting or adding network nodes. As such changes to network traffic flow may affect a user s experience on the particular website. Therefore delta mapping refers to comparing network traffic visualizations between separate events such as before and after changes to the sequence of network traffic flow. In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure delta mapping is disclosed in greater detail herein with reference to the drawings.

The network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet.

The client device in one embodiment may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . For example the client device may be implemented as a personal computer of a user e.g. a client or customer in communication with the network such as the Internet. In other examples the client device may be implemented as a wireless telephone e.g. cell phone personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer and or various other generally known types of wired and or wireless computing devices. It should be appreciated that in various embodiments the client device may be referred to as a user device or a customer device without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The client device in one embodiment may include one or more browser applications which may be used to provide a user interface to permit the user to browse information available over the network . For example the browser application may be implemented as a web browser to view information available over the network such as the Internet. In one implementation the browser application comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the one or more resource provider servers and the service provider server via the network . For example the user is able to access resource provider websites via resource provider servers to view and select items for purchase and the user is able to purchase selected items from resource providers by communicating with the service provider server . As described in greater detail herein when accessing a resource provider site as provided by at least one of the resource provider servers the user may click through a sequence of visual events that may be tracked and logged as network traffic data and stored by the service provider for analysis. Embodiments of the present disclosure provide a way for the service provider server to generate a network traffic visualization of the user s visual experience.

The client device in one embodiment may include one or more toolbar applications which may be used to provide client side processing for performing tasks in response to operations selected by the user . For example the toolbar application may display a GUI in connection with the browser application .

The client device in one embodiment may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments to provide additional features available to the user . In one example such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications.

The client device in one embodiment may include one or more user identifiers which may be implemented as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the browser application identifiers associated with hardware of the client device and or various other appropriate identifiers. The user identifier may include attributes related to the user such as personal information e.g. a user name password photograph image biometric id address social security number phone number email address etc. and banking information e.g. banking institution credit card issuer user account numbers security information etc. . In various implementations the user identifier may be passed with a user s network traffic data to the service provider server and the user identifier may be used by the service provider server to associate the user with a particular user account maintained by the service provider server .

The one or more resource provider servers in various embodiments may be maintained by one or more information resource providers offering various types of information for viewing and sharing over the network . In this regard each of the one or more resource provider servers may include an information database for storing and archiving searchable information which may be made available to the client device for viewing and sharing by the user . In one implementation each of the resource provider servers may include a resource sharing application which may be configured to provide information to the user over the network . For example the user may interact with the resource sharing application through the browser application of the client device to search and view various types of information made available to the user from the database of the resource provider server .

In various other embodiments the one or more resource provider servers may be maintained by one or more merchants offering various items such as products and or services for purchase in exchange for financial payment to be received from users such as the user over the network . In this regard each of the one or more resource provider servers may include the database for identifying available products and or services which may be made available to the client device for viewing and purchase by the user . Accordingly each of the resource provider servers may include a marketplace application which may be configured to provide information over the network to the browser application of the client device . For example the user may interact with the marketplace application through the browser application of the client device to search and view various items products and or services identified in the information database of the server . The marketplace application may include a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate online purchase transactions by the user of products and or services identified by in the database . In this regard the marketplace application may be configured to accept payment information from the user and or from service provider server over the network .

Each of the one or more resource provider servers in one embodiment may include one or more resource provider identifiers which may be included as part of the one or more items made available for purchase so that particular items are associated with particular resource providers. The resource provider identifier may include attributes related to the resource provider such as business and banking information. In various implementations the resource provider identifier may be passed with a user purchase request to the service provider server when the user selects an item for purchase and the resource provider identifier may be used by the service provider server to associate a particular item purchased with a particular resource provider account maintained by the service provider server .

In one embodiment each of the one or more resource providers having a related resource provider server may need to establish a resource provider account with the service provider server so that the payment server provider is able to process transactions having items offered for purchase by the resource providers. When establishing a resource provider account each of the one or more resource providers may need to provide business information such as first name last name address social security number date of birth phone number email address etc. and financial information such as banking information resource provider account information credit card information payment processing information etc.

In various embodiments as discussed herein each of resource provider servers may be associated with a particular link e.g. a link such as a URL Uniform Resource Locator to an IP Internet Protocol address . In this regard the service provider server may optionally redirect the browser application of the client device to an appropriate webpage and or resource provider site of the resource provider server to facilitate information transactions and marketplace transactions from at least one of the resource provider servers .

The service provider server in one embodiment may be maintained by an online service provider which may provide payment processing for online financial and information transactions on behalf of the user to an operator of the resource provider server . As such the service provider server includes at least one processing application which may be adapted to interact with the client device and or each of the resource provider servers over the network to facilitate information sharing over the network facilitate mapping user experiences over the network and or facilitate purchases from the resource provider servers over the network . In one example the service provider server may be provided by PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. USA.

The service provider server in one embodiment may be configured to maintain a plurality of user and resource provider accounts in an account database each of which may include account information associated with individual users including the user and the one or more resource providers associated with the resource provider servers . For example account information may include private financial information of the user and resource providers such as one or more account numbers passwords credit card information banking information or other types of financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions between the user of the client device and one or more resource providers associated with the resource provider servers .

As such in one implementation the processing application may be configured to interact with the one or more resource provider servers on behalf of the user during a transaction with marketplace application without requiring the user to provide account information directly to the resource provider server . In various aspects it should be appreciated that the methods and systems described herein may be modified to accommodate users and or resource providers that may or may not be associated with at least one existing user account and or resource provider account respectively.

The service provider server in one embodiment may include a content database for storing and tracking information related to transactions between particular users such as the user and one or more particular resource providers . The content database may provide a historical account of user experiences of the user including historical accounts of information transaction and marketplace transactions between the user and each of the resource provider servers . Accordingly in one implementation the service provider server may include a content processing application that may be configured to track log and store transaction information including mapping user experiences and provide this information to the processing application of the service provider for analysis. As such the service provider may search and view the mapping history of network traffic flow of multiple users including the user in reference to particular resource providers identified in the content database .

Referring to the method involves tracking user click events block on the accessed site. This may involve accessing a plurality of linked pages available at the resource provider site. Next a user click event sequence log is maintained block . This may involve documenting and storing the user s experience path through the site as navigated by the user . Next user experience data is defined block . This may involve generating data relevant to the user s click event experience for use with a network traffic visualization application or tool. Next eddy data is defined block . This may involve identifying one or more eddies i.e. repetitive accesses to particular pages in the user experience data block . Next once the one or more eddies are defined or at least identified visual path is generated block . This may involve generating a visual representation of the user s click event experience of the site based on the user experience data and eddy data. Next the visual path data may be stored for example in a memory component block and or displayed for example as a graph on a display component such as a monitor block for viewing and or analysis by an operator.

In one implementation the eddy mapping application receives input data. For example at least one input file includes data for at least one website user experience e.g. sequence of events and a count of site visitors with similar user experiences. In one implementation the input file comprises a text file e.g. a Comma Separated Values CSV file for keeping tabular data e.g. tabular data with lines rows records and columnar data in a given row delimited with commas. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various other types of text files and or data files may be used and other types of text or punctuation may be used for delimiting such as colons semi colons dashes etc. without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Next the eddy mapping application processes the input data. For example input data from the at least one input file is processed to produce at least one data file which may include a DOT file a temporary DOT file etc. for storage in a file system for later use to produce a visual depiction such as an output image file of a directed graph. In various implementations the at least one data file comprises an object relation mapping file to hold directed graphs which may be referred to as a publicly described text file for describing network flow data as directed or undirected graphs that may be used as an input by graph e.g. math definition of graph visualization software. In one embodiment the eddy mapping application includes a module to identify and capture one or more eddies i.e. multiple visits to the same page within a single session such as a single instance of a given experience with the last return visit to that page in that experience coming from the same source page. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various other types of data files may be used without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Next the eddy mapping application generates a visual representation such as the output image file for the directed graph to visually depict the user s experience. For example the data file is read from memory storage by the eddy mapping application to visually depict the user s experience for analysis by an operator. In various implementations various image format and layout parameters may be selected and configured for the output image file .

In various implementations the method involves tracking website usage by tracking the sequence of web pages in the website that each visitor to the website click events on a particular visit and maintaining a log of every such discrete visitor click event sequence. Each particular sequence of click events by the user may be denoted as a full path sequence. Tracking website usage on a full path basis assists a website owner such as resource provider or service provider to understand a user s experience on each visit to the website. Because an enormous amount of full path data may be generated and collected it may be difficult to analyze. Accordingly compiling this raw data in visual form for purposes of analysis is helpful when using a visualization application or tool.

In one embodiment the method of provides a way to represent aggregate network traffic in a graph or map of the network . The method may be adapted to represent a plurality of webpages of a website as labeled nodes represent a navigation path between webpages by a labeled indicator e.g. directed arrow or line associate with each webpage a count of visits by users e.g. the user in selected intervals and associate with the navigation path a count of user navigation click events between webpages by users in the selected intervals. The method may be adapted to represent the webpage visit count as a number presented in association with the webpage and or represent the navigation path count as a number presented in association with the labeled directed arrow or line. In various implementations as shown in recurring webpage accesses e.g. eddies by users may be represented by different visual appearances such as color line thickness line pattern directed lines and or directed arrows.

The method involves obtaining previous visual path data of a user s previous click event experiences block on the accessed site. This may involve accessing previously generated visual path data. Next once the site links of the particular site have been altered revised visual path data is obtained block . This may involve accessing generated visual path data of the altered site. Next the previous visual path data and the revised path data are compared block and changes to the path data are defined block . This may involve subtracting the previous visual path data from the revised path data to identify changes to the path data as experienced by the user . Next once the changes are defined or at least identified updated visual path is generated block . This may involve generating an updated visual representation of the user s click event experience of the site based on changes to the user experience data. Next the updated visual path data may be stored for example in a memory component block and or displayed for example as a graph on a display component such as a monitor block for viewing and or analysis by an operator.

In reference to tracking website usage pattern changes after a revision problem may occur when trying to visually represent visual path data that has been collected before and after a tracked website undergoes a significant revision or redesign. Because webpages may be added or deleted from a website as a result of a revision visual path data spanning a website revision may include many webpage sequences that involve webpages that are no longer accessible or involve webpages added after a revision. A simple visual representation of visual path data that depicts all sequences of webpage click events may confuse the user and be less useful because it may not be apparent in the visual representation which webpages have been deleted or newly added and therefore it may not accurately depict website usage patterns. To overcome these problems delta mapping provides a way to update visual path data before a website revision so that the visual representation of this data readily indicates what webpage changes have been made. Delta mapping allows the viewer of the visual representation of delta mapped visual path data to quickly view large scale changes in website usage patterns to facilitate the optimization of the website. In one implementation delta mapping may include a normalization of delta mapped data or factoring out overall increases in website traffic from visual path data collected at more than one different points in time so that actual changes in website usage patterns of specific webpages may be viewed without distortion by increases in traffic on the website.

In various implementations in addition to depicting changes over time delta mapping may be used to show differences in traffic patterns between different classes and or segments of users during the same time period. As such normalization may refer to the sizes of the two groups being compared which may be different.

In one implementation the delta mapping application receives input data. For example at least two input files may be named and include data for each website user experience e.g. sequence of events and a count of site visitors with similar user experiences. As previously described in reference to the input files may comprise text files e.g. CSV files for keeping tabular data and columnar data. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various other types of text files and or data files may be used without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Next the delta mapping application processes the input data. For example input data from the at least two input files is processed to produce a single data file which may include a single DOT file a single temporary DOT file etc. for storage in a file system for later use to produce a visual depiction such as delta output image file of a directed graph showing differences in site traffic patterns from one period or group of visitors to the another period or group of visitors.

In one implementation one input file is subtracted from the other input file in the sense that changes in quantity of traffic between two events is compared and captured in a single visual representation . In a delta calculation changes in quantity may be captured as absolute changes normalized changes to a particular selection or normalized changes relative to overall traffic .

Next the delta mapping application generates the delta output image file of the visual representation such as the directed graph to visually depict the user s experience as revised during processing. For example the single data file is read from memory storage by the delta mapping application to visually depict the user s experience for analysis by an operator. In various implementations various image format and layout parameters may be selected and configured for the delta output image file .

In one embodiment the method of provides a way to represent aggregate changes in network traffic in the form of a graph or map of the network . The method may be adapted to indicate changes in navigation of a website represent the changes by different visual appearances represent changed navigation paths between webpages with various types of indicators e.g. a labeled directed arrow or line of a different appearance than the navigation path representation before the changing The method may be adapted to associate a count of visits by users in selected intervals and associate with the navigation path between webpages after the changes are made. In one aspect changes may include deleting and or adding network nodes or webpages within the website and or altering hyperlink options between network nodes or webpages within the website.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a personal computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. system memory component e.g. RAM static storage component e.g. ROM disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card display component e.g. CRT or LCD input component e.g. keyboard and cursor control component e.g. mouse or trackball . In one implementation disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component or disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and or volatile media. In various implementations non volatile media may include optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive component and volatile media may include dynamic memory such as system memory component . In one aspect data and information related to execution instructions may be transmitted to computer system via transmission media such as coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In various examples transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. network of LAN WLAN PTSN or various other wired or wireless networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure.

Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

