---

title: System and method for storing and retrieving multimedia messages on low-cost tags in order to facilitate contextual communications
abstract: Systems, methods and computer program products for storing and retrieving of multimedia messages onto tags in order to facilitate contextual communications are disclosed. Such tags can be attached or affixed to physical, real-world objects thus allowing multimedia messages associated with the tags to be retrieved with the real-world objects in a time-shifted and space-shifted manner from when and where they were recorded. The present invention uses low-cost (metal, paper or plastic) tags—encoded using barcodes or RFID—as virtual message storage units and commercially-available terminals equipped with appropriate software and sensors, such as mobile telephones, as recording and reading devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08532624&OS=08532624&RS=08532624
owner: 
number: 08532624
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080409
---
The present invention generally relates to contextual communications and more particularly to systems methods and computer programs for the storage and retrieval of multimedia messages on low cost barcode or radio frequency identification RFID tags thereby allowing such messages to be affixed to physical real world objects.

In today s technological environment electronic communications mechanisms can be classified as either Person to Person P2P Unidirectional Annotated Social Bulletin Board or Machine to Machine M2M communications. This classification system is based on the type of participants in the communications and usage patterns.

Well known P2P communications paradigms involve a telephone or conference call where persons dial a number to get connected and then talk using audio signals. This method of communication is characterized by its real time nature and the message exchange is synchronized. Other forms of popular P2P communications methodologies include electronic mail E mail instant messaging text messaging and Push to Talk i.e. PTT a method of conversing on half duplex communication lines including two way radio using a momentary button to switch from voice reception mode to transmit mode . All these communications methodologies are characterized by the presence of named senders and receivers who are typically known a priori and use a variety of addressing mechanisms and protocols.

Unidirectional messaging includes items such as News feeds and Web logs also known as blogs . This method of communications has become more popular with the rise in the access to and use of the global public Internet and the World Wide Web WWW . In this method of communications the content of any one communication is not typically addressed to any single individual or group of individuals by the sender publisher. Rather the content is pulled through a browsing mechanism or through a feed reader such as the Real Simple Syndication RSS family of Web feed formats. In this method of communication the receiving parties are usually not known a priori.

Annotated messaging in a shared context is exemplified by such mechanisms as posting comments to an electronic document. Annotated messaging is a good example of contextual communication where messages are attached to a repository of information. This form of communications however usually does not name participants.

Social messaging uses tools such as Chat rooms and Internet Relay Chat IRC technologies allow group i.e. many to many communication in discussion forums called channels and also allow one to one communications via private messages over the Internet. The persons involved in this type of discussions are identified using a priori registrations but are not necessarily personally known to each other.

Finally M2M communications involve digital processing units running one or more specialized applications exchanging messages with one another usually to automate a particular task as encoded by the developers and or users of the applications.

The above described mechanisms of electronic communications while they allow for rapid on line electronic communications all have one deficiency. That deficiency is that they do not allow themselves to be associated with a physical i.e. real world non virtual context. For example it would be very valuable to attach a voice message to a tangible gift whereby the recipient of the gift can then easily retrieve the message when receiving the gift. Current mechanisms of sending messages with a gift include a printed or written communication in the form of a short note or a greeting card. There is no electronic way to attach a message with the physical context. While certain clumsy mechanisms can be thought of such as sending an audio tape with the gift or writing a note containing a URL where an electronic message may be downloaded there is no simple and elegant way to exchange rich electronic messages that can be tied to physical world contexts.

To further quantify the above described problem one need only consider the example of a doctor providing instructions to a patient on the usage of a particular prescription drug. Current mechanisms for receiving such instructions include the patient having to remember the doctor s instructions or a printed label attached to the drug by the pharmacist with an often cryptic message such as Take 3 day with food. There are no easy ways to listen to doctor s detailed instructions at the time and place of actually taking the drug by the patient. Patients either have to memorize the doctor s instructions or write it down somewhere. Oftentimes however the instructions are forgotten or misunderstood.

The two above examples point to a need for contextual communications where electronic messages can be attached or affixed to physical real world objects. Currently there are at least three challenges for developing cost effective simple to use contextual messaging. First and foremost there has to be an addressing mechanism to address an electronic communication to a physical world object or context. Second the mechanics for storing and retrieving the messages have to be simple and intuitive to be of practical use. Third the systems methods and computer program products need to be cost effective in order to apply them to the marketplace in any meaningful way.

Given the foregoing what are needed are systems method and computer program products for the storing and retrieving of multimedia messages on low cost tags such as barcode and RFID tags thereby facilitating contextual communications where such messages can be attached to physical real world objects.

The present invention meets the above identified needs by providing systems methods and computer program products for storing and retrieving of multimedia messages on low cost tags where such messages can be attached to physical real world objects.

In one aspect of the present invention low cost bar coded metal paper or plastic tags are utilized as virtual message stores. Similar to a smart card or a storage memory card the virtual message allows for storing and retrieving electronic content using an electronic device. In such an aspect mobile telephones or Personal Computers PCs equipped with appropriate software and sensors are utilized as devices for reading and writing messages onto the tags. Further in such an aspect of the present invention a backend infrastructure in the form of wireless or wireline communications network based computing and a storage facility is utilized to implement the mechanics of storing and retrieving the messages.

In other aspects of the present invention mechanisms for producing and identifying the tags producing and reading the electronic messages associating the electronic message virtually to the tags and establishing secure messaging communications are provided.

In another aspect of the present invention low cost tags to be used as virtual message stores are easily generated such that barcodes can be printed onto them from any available printer and associated software.

Given that barcodes and RFID tags are traditionally used for supply chain applications e.g. inventory tracking commerce applications e.g. checkout counters etc. the tags display certain characteristics to show that they are used for messaging according to one aspect of the present invention. In such an aspect this is accomplished by printing appropriate labels and using the same nomenclature used for traditional digital storage media such as CDs DVDs and flash drives. These traditional digital storage media typically specify a storage device type i.e. CD DVD Memory Stick etc. a size e.g. 500 MB 1 GB etc. and access characteristics e.g. Read Read Write Recordable etc. . Together such information enables users to intuitively use the tags as a storage medium albeit a virtual storage medium for recording and accessing content according to aspects of the present invention.

In one aspect of the present invention a system includes one or more mobile devices which have a messenger application loaded onto their memories and capable of sending and receiving meta data and multimedia data. The system also includes low cost tags each encoded with a unique identifier e.g. a Universally Unique Identifier UUID and capable of being read by the mobile devices. The system further includes a registry server which stores meta data associated with each of the tags and capable of communicating such meta data to the messenger applications. The system also includes a media server capable of storing multimedia messages recorded using the mobile devices and capable of communicating with the messenger applications. The tags are capable of being affixed to a physical real world object and thus allowing messages recorded by a first user using one of the mobile devices to be retrieved with the real world object in a time shifted temporal manner and or a space shifted spatial manner by a second user using a second mobile device.

In one aspect of the present invention a method includes the steps of encoding a tag with a unique identifier utilizing a mobile device to read the unique identifier receiving at a registry server the unique identifier from the mobile device accessing meta data associated with the tag from the registry server using the unique identifier sending the meta data associated with the tag from the registry server to the mobile device utilizing the meta data at the mobile device to allow a user to record a message associated with the unique identifier and storing the message onto a media server. The method also includes the steps of affixing the tag to a physical real world object and thus allowing the message to be retrieved with the object in a time shifted and or space shifted manner from when and or where the message was recorded.

In alternate aspects of the system and method the mobile device involved in the recording i.e. writing and reading operations may be the same device or two different devices the tag used for reading and writing are physically different but encoded with the same globally unique identifier s and or a security code is encoded on the tag that needs to be inputted by a user while recording or reading the contents associated with the tag.

An advantage of aspects of the present invention is that it combines the best aspects of digital and physical world assets to generate and retrieve messages using mobile devices and low cost tags.

An advantage of aspects of the present invention is that it provides an addressing mechanism to facilitate cost effective simple to use contextual messaging.

Another advantage of aspects of the present invention is that the mechanics for storing and retrieving messages is simple and intuitive such as to be of practical use.

Another advantage of aspects of the present invention is that it is cost effective thereby allowing for application to today s marketplace in a meaningful way.

Yet another advantage of aspects of the present invention is that patients can now click on their prescription drugs to get instant usage instructions without the need to memorize their doctor s instructions or write it down while during their visit to the doctor s office.

Yet another advantage of aspects of the present invention is that it exploits the fact that in today s technological climate both bar coded and RFID tags cost pennies and tags can be easily bar coded using any available printer and associated widely available software.

Yet another advantage of aspects of the present invention is that it utilizes the UUID standard in order to guarantee that each tag is uniquely identifiable in order to facilitate the storage and retrieval of information. In such aspects the UUID numbering system has enough capacity to tag every possible object in the universe which is where traditional barcode UPC product codes or ISBN numbers fell short because they identify classes of products not necessarily unique physical entities or instances.

Yet another advantage of aspects of the present invention is that a user may specify the attributes of a tag at the time of creation in order to simplify the user interface and thus enhance the user experience . For example a user may specify and generate a voice only tag. This eliminates the step of pressing multiple buttons to record audio. Then once the message is recorded and stored in a database the tag may be scanned during a retrieval process such that the content will be automatically presented to the user.

Yet another advantage of aspects of the present invention is that well established directory service mechanisms may be employed for controlling data access and ensuring information security by treating the tags as traditional data stores.

Further features and advantages of the present invention as well as the structure and operation of various aspects of the present invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The present invention is directed to systems methods and computer program products for storing and retrieving of multimedia messages on low cost tags where such messages can be attached or affixed to physical real world objects.

In one aspect of the present invention an intuitive way to store and retrieve multimedia messages using low cost barcode or RFID tags rather than conventional digital mechanisms such as voice mail SMS email etc. physical resources such as paper e.g. letters note paper Post it notes etc. or verbal communications either directly or by telephone.

In another aspect of the present invention a universal resource number mechanism such as the UUID standard promulgated by the Open Software Foundation and documented in ISO IEC 11578 1996 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety is used to uniquely identify the low cost tags without significant central coordination. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s a UUID in its most basic form is a 128 bit number frequently displayed as 32 hexadecimal digits displayed in 5 groups separated by hyphens in the form 8 4 4 4 12 for a total of 36 characters e.g. 550e8401 e28c 42d4 a726 456655330000 .

In other aspects of the present invention a user may specify the attributes of a tag at the time of creation in order to simplify the user interface. For example a user may specify whether the tag is meant to store text audio pictures and or video. In such aspects multiple messages may be recorded onto the tag and when it is scanned to retrieve messages the user may also specify the order in which the content needs to be presented or played. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s after reading the description herein the user may specify how the tags behave during recording and playback as a queue i.e. first in first out FIFO as a stack i.e. last in first out LIFO or as a scratch pad memory.

In other aspects of the present invention directory service mechanisms using well established corporate standard practices may be employed to allow for data access. That is many enterprises already define users their roles and data access control mechanisms. By treating the tags as traditional data stores the same principles may be applied for controlling data access and ensuring information security all without any username and password schemes which can be particularly cumbersome on mobile devices.

The present invention is now described in more detail herein in terms of the above exemplary context. This is for convenience only and is not intended to limit the application of the present invention. In fact after reading the following description it will be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art s how to implement the following invention in alternative aspects e.g. using different low costs tags affixing the tags to other real world objects not mentioned herein and the like .

The terms entity organization firm company business individual patient doctor recipient giver and or the plural form of these terms are used interchangeably throughout herein to refer to those persons and entities would benefit from the systems methods and computer program products that the present invention provide for storing and retrieving of multimedia messages on low cost tags affixed to physical real world objects.

Referring to a block diagram illustrating an exemplary contextual messaging system architecture for facilitating the storing and retrieving of multimedia messages onto low cost tags according to an aspect of the present invention is shown.

In such an aspect system includes a one or more low cost metal paper or plastic tags such as a bar coded or RFID tags capable of being affixed or attached to real world physical objects. In alternate aspects of the present invention tags may be a billboard an LCD screen or the like.

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s barcodes are ubiquitous and can be found on almost every product that is sold transported goods many documents such as letters postal envelopes industrial parts and components groceries and just about anything that needs to be tracked sold or categorized. There are many barcode technologies standards that are in use today. Most common are the so called 1 dimensional codes. In 1 dimensional codes data is encoded in one dimension usually horizontal with redundancy in the vertical direction. Examples of such barcode standards include UPC A EAN Postnet and UCC EAN 128. In addition it is possible to store data in two dimensions both horizontal and vertical . These are referred to as 2D barcodes which usually have higher capacity than their 1 Dimensional counterparts. Examples of 2D barcodes include Data Matrix MaxiCode and QR Code. There are even emerging 3D barcodes some microscopic in nature for high value items are in development. In aspects of the present invention differing types of barcodes all with sufficient storage capacity are utilized e.g. the Data Matrix standard .

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s Radio Frequency Identification RFID is an automatic identification technology similar in application to bar code technology but uses radio frequency instead of optical signals. An RFID system consists of two major components a reader and a tag. They work together to provide the end user with a non contact solution to uniquely identify objects. The reader performs several functions one of which is to produce a low level radio frequency magnetic field that serves as a carrier of power from the reader to the RFID tag. A passive RFID tag contains an antenna and an integrated circuit IC . The IC requires only a minimal amount of electrical power to function. The antenna in the tag provides a means for gathering the energy present in the magnetic field produced by the reader and converts it to an electrical signal for use by the IC. When a tag is brought into the magnetic field produced by the reader the recovered energy powers the IC and an electromagnetic signal modulated with data in the memory is transmitted by the tag s antenna. The electromagnetic signal transmitted from the tag is recovered by an antenna within the reader and converted back into an electrical form. The reader contains a sensitive receiving system that is designed to detect and process the weak tag signal demodulating the original data stored in the tag memory. As opposed to passive tags active tags contain a miniature battery that provides the operating power for the IC. When interrogated by the reader the IC broadcasts a signal that identifies itself to sensitive reader detection and data transmission circuits. This allows the tag to begin sending its data at a considerably greater distance from the reader than its passive counterpart. Additionally an active tag uses battery energy to produce a much stronger electromagnetic response signal. This results in a significantly greater read range than a passive tag.

Thus in alternate aspects of the present invention a tag may be any NFC compliant tag such as NFC Forum Type 2 NFC Forum Type 4 MIFARE UltraLight MIFARE DESFire and the like.

In one aspect of the present invention tags within system may have the following attributes i.e. meta data listed in Table 1.

In such an aspect system includes one or more terminals with multimedia capability and equipped with appropriate software and sensors for reading from and writing to tags . Terminals may be mobile telephones shown as mobile devices and in PCs minicomputers laptops palmtops mainframe computers microcomputers personal digital assistants PDAs or any other like device having a processor and input and display capability for handling multimedia.

System also includes a wireless network for network connectivity between tags and other components of contextual messaging system . In alternate aspects of the present invention network may utilize one or more transmission protocols such as ZigBee 802.15.4 Cellular CDMA TDMA GSM and others Wi Fi ANT Bluetooth 802.15.1 or custom wireless protocols working in one or more available frequencies.

In such an aspect system also includes a local registry server with an associated data store for storing the attributes of tags a multimedia server with an associated data store for storing and retrieving messages a global registry for reconciling inter domain communications and a third party server with an associated data store to connect system to third party applications such as trouble management systems content management systems customer relationship management CRM tools and other Internet or Enterprise applications.

Referring to a data flow diagram of an exemplary mechanism for storing a message on a virtual message store according to an aspect of the present invention is shown. That is in such an aspect flow involves the virtual storing of information i.e. one or more messages onto tag .

In such an aspect a user activates a messenger application that can send and receive meta data and multimedia data from various network connected servers running on a terminal e.g. mobile device such as the Nokia NFC mobile telephone . Then user positions a sensor on mobile device e.g. a camera or RFID reader chip embedded in a mobile telephone near tag . Messenger application then reads tag and contacts local register . Then local register looks up its service registry and sends meta information about tag see Table 1 back to messenger application . The messenger application based on the meta information received from local register may display one or more permissible actions for user to pursue. The actions may include Record Message Read Message Delete Message etc. The messenger application displays the permissible actions as a menu prompt to user . User in this particular example chooses to select Record audio and then records a message. Once recorded by user the message is then sent to media server for storage.

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s after reading the description herein messenger application in an aspect of the present invention is a software module loaded onto mobile device . Messenger application has the capability to interact with the attached camera unit to take pictures and read encoded information from tag it has the capability to interact with Internet and Enterprise networks through IP based protocols and it has ability to access information and other applications such as browser or media recording application programming interfaces available on mobile device . In other aspects messenger application has the capability to interact with Near Field Communication NFC reader equipment available on some mobile devices e.g. the Nokia NFC telephone . Overall the purpose of messenger application is to be able to read tags interpret the encoded data offer the ability to record and play back voice and other media such as video text and or any combination thereof recordings and store retrieve information from network based servers.

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s NFC is an open platform technology specifying short range high frequency wireless communication technology which enables the exchange of data between devices over about a four inch distance and standardized in ISO IEC 18092 ECMA 340 Near Field Communication Interface and Protocol which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Referring to a data flow diagram of an exemplary mechanism for reading a message from a virtual message store according to an aspect of the present invention is shown. That is in such an aspect flow involves information retrieval from virtual storage tag .

In such an aspect a user activates a messenger application running on a terminal e.g. mobile device . Then user positions a sensor on mobile device e.g. a camera or RFID reader chip embedded in a mobile telephone near tag . Messenger application then reads tag and contacts local register . Then local register looks up its service registry and sends meta information about tag see Table 1 back to messenger application . In one aspect the meta information may command messenger application to receive a message from media server . Messenger application then contacts media server to retrieve the message and then plays the message to user on terminal .

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s after reading the description herein user messenger application and user messenger application may or may not be the same person or application respectively. That is user who records the message may or may not be the same person who then retrieves the message depending on the application of system e.g. a doctor recording directions for a patient a patient recording instructions for themselves to listen to later or a gift giver attaching a message to a gift recipient . Further messenger applications and would differ based on the type of terminal device being employed by users and respectively.

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s after reading the description herein system may have a local register for each enterprise or customer for the purpose of maintaining security and enforcing access policy rules. Thus the local register shown in may or may not be the same local register in alternate aspects of the present invention.

Referring to a data flow diagram of an exemplary inter domain message reading mechanism according to an aspect of the present invention is shown.

In such an aspect when a tag is read a messenger application contacts a first local register LR server associated with that domain. In one aspect the domain is pre determined for every messenger application client loaded onto a mobile device . The LR server checks if the identifier associated with tag is registered in its associated database. If not then it might be a case of the tag belonging to a different functional domain such as an Enterprise not served by the current local register server or service provider. The LR server would then contact a global register through Check Credentials message. Global register would then check its associated database for registration information about tag .

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s after reading the description herein the Check Credentials message in an aspect is comprised of at least three parameters Ti the tag ID Ui the user ID and Oi the operation ID.

In an aspect of the present invention only those tags identified for inter domain communications by a service provider are listed within global register . Global register server would then send through a Redirect message the address of a second foreign local register LR server which holds information for tag . LR would then contact LR through Check Credentials message to obtain metadata about the tag such as attributes associated with the tag and the applicable media server which stores and serves the content i.e. multimedia message for the tag. The attribute information received by LR through Meta Data message is then sent to the messenger application . As will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s after reading the description herein the Meta Data message in an aspect is comprised of at least one attribute value pairs denoted as a v pairs in . Depending upon the attributes messenger application provides appropriate options to user . User can either read the message or record a message. In case of recording messenger application sends the recorded information directly to foreign media server .

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s after reading the description herein system may utilize one or more of the UDP TCP SIP FTP HTTP RTP and like protocols for the reading and writing operations onto media server as shown in data flow and in alternate aspects of the present invention.

Referring to a block diagram of an exemplary bar coded tag used as a virtual message store according to an aspect of the present invention is shown. Tag shows a two dimensional matrix barcode encoded with an identifier. In such an aspect the surface of tag would be labeled with a company name service name e.g. audio notes and the marketing brand name of the tag e.g. Flashtagg as shown in . Further the surface of tag is labeled with a characteristic of the tag. For example the letters RW which stand for Read and Write is displayed on tag . This lets users know that tag can be used for both reading and recording a message.

Referring to a block diagram of an exemplary security encoded message tag according to an aspect of the present invention is shown. In such an aspect tag is comprised of a tag encoded with a message code used for generating and reading contextual messaging and another tag encoded with a security code. The purpose of the security code is to add an extra layer of protection so that the device used for reading needs to read and match both of the codes in order to perform a valid operation such as reading or writing a message onto the tag. Adding a security code separately as shown instead of in the main message code reduces the size of the barcode. In general the more characters there are the bigger the barcode size is. In addition the security code can also be pasted or applied onto a pre printed tag and activated when a read or write operation is done on the tag by a mobile device. The advantage of this method is that it adds an additional layer of security to reduce the possibility of an unauthorized person guessing the codes and trying to read messages by randomly printing the codes.

Referring to a block diagram of an exemplary UUID encoded two dimensional matrix tag according to an aspect of the present invention is shown. In such an aspect the UUID information may also be printed on the surface of tag . The UUID code as will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s can be generated and managed independently using multiple computer systems. That is the barcodes or tags can be generated by users of the present invention independently yet still can be guaranteed to be globally unique. This removes the overhead of centrally managing and assigning identifiers to tags by a single database system.

The present invention i.e. system data flow or or any part s or function s thereof may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof and may be implemented in one or more computer systems or other processing systems. However the manipulations performed by the present invention were often referred to in terms such as adding or comparing which are commonly associated with mental operations performed by a human operator. No such capability of a human operator is necessary or desirable in most cases in any of the operations described herein which form part of the present invention. Rather the operations are machine operations. Useful machines for performing the operation of the present invention include general purpose digital computers or similar devices.

In fact in one aspect the invention is directed toward one or more computer systems capable of carrying out the functionality described herein. An example of a computer system is shown in .

Computer system includes one or more processors such as processor . The processor is connected to a communication infrastructure e.g. a communications bus cross over bar or network . Various software aspects are described in terms of this exemplary computer system. After reading this description it will become apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art s how to implement the invention using other computer systems and or architectures.

Computer system can include a display interface that forwards graphics text and other data from the communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer not shown for display on the display unit .

Computer system also includes a main memory preferably random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory . The secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner. Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk etc. which is read by and written to by removable storage drive . As will be appreciated the removable storage unit includes a computer usable storage medium having stored therein computer software and or data.

In alternative aspects secondary memory may include other similar devices for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into computer system . Such devices may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or programmable read only memory PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computer system .

Computer system may also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows software and data to be transferred between computer system and external devices. Examples of communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path e.g. channel . This channel carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a telephone line a cellular link an radio frequency RF link and other communications channels.

In this document the terms computer program medium and computer usable medium are used to generally refer to media such as removable storage drive a hard disk installed in hard disk drive and signals . These computer program products provide software to computer system . The invention is directed to such computer program products.

Computer programs also referred to as computer control logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the features of the present invention as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor to perform the features of the present invention. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system .

In an aspect where the invention is implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer program product and loaded into computer system using removable storage drive hard drive or communications interface . The control logic software when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions of the invention as described herein.

In another aspect the invention is implemented primarily in hardware using for example hardware components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Implementation of the hardware state machine so as to perform the functions described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s .

In yet another aspect the invention is implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s after reading the foregoing description one aspect the present invention would enable a doctor providing instructions to a patient on the usage of a particular prescription drug to provide for a way to listen to doctor s instructions at the time and place of actually taking the drug by the patient. Thus in such an aspect the doctor would have next to their conventional prescription pad a pad of Post it notes or any other brand or kind of note paper with attaching means capable of being affixed to common object surfaces which would then serve as the low cost tag of system with each sheet of the pad having a pre printed UUID barcode. The doctor could then after writing a prescription on their conventional prescription pad take one of the pre printed UUID encoded Post it notes scan it with their mobile device e.g. the camera on a Nokia N95 smartphone and record a detailed message regarding directions for the drug s usage. The message would then be stored on media server as shown in . Then the patient can take the pre printed UUID encoded Post it note and affix it to the prescription bottle once the prescription is filled. Then at any time in the future when the patient desires to hear the doctor s instructions they can scan the UUID encoded tag with their mobile device and hear the recorded instructions once retrieved from media server as shown in or .

While various aspects of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary aspects but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

In addition it should be understood that the figures in the attachments which highlight the structure methodology functionality and advantages of the present invention are presented for example purposes only. The present invention is sufficiently flexible and configurable such that it may be implemented in ways other than that shown in the accompanying figures.

Further the purpose of the foregoing Abstract is to enable the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally and especially the scientists engineers and practitioners in the relevant art s who are not familiar with patent or legal terms or phraseology to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and essence of this technical disclosure. The Abstract is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the present invention in any way.

