---

title: Self-service real-time financial advice
abstract: A user may obtain self-service financial planning. A comprehensive set of data pertaining to a user is gathered from various sources and analyzed to generate a financial plan. A user may be presented with various financial scenarios based on information provided by the user. The user may perform “what if” analyses to determine prospective financial plans and results based on hypothetical information that the user may provide. A user may be provided with a financial plan and the user may see how the plan changes under various risk tolerances and life event scenarios.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08635132&OS=08635132&RS=08635132
owner: United Services Automobile Associatiion (USAA)
number: 08635132
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080414
---
This application is related by subject matter to that disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications the entirety of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 102 111 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 102 115 each filed on Apr. 14 2008 and each entitled Self Service Real Time Financial Advice. 

Financial planners try to determine how their clients can meet financial goals through management of resources. They examine the financial history of their client s assets and develop a financial plan the client should take to meet their goals. The financial plan is based on a client s financial situation at one point in time. However financial planning is data heavy that constantly changes. Financial planners are not able to continuously monitor a client s financial situation and revise the financial plan accordingly. Delays in receiving updated client data lead to delays in revising financial plans.

Additionally a financial plan is often generated and provided using a limited set of data that is often not up to date. Such limited data leads to inaccurate or inappropriate financial plans.

A user may obtain self service financial planning. A comprehensive set of data pertaining to a user is gathered from various sources and analyzed. A financial plan comprising financial advice and or recommendations for example is generated and provided to the user.

In an implementation a user may be presented with various financial scenarios based on information provided by the user. What if analyses may be performed to determine prospective financial plans and results based on hypothetical information that the user may provide. A user may be provided with a financial plan and the user may see how the plan changes under various risk tolerances and life event scenarios.

In an implementation a user s actions over time may be monitored to determine how a user s risk tolerance and other factors that may be used in the generation of a financial plan for the user.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The financial planning engine may also generate and provide scenario information and risk tolerance information to the user via the user computing device . Scenario information refers to information pertaining to various hypothetical scenarios involving the user such as various life events e.g. having a child getting married etc. and financial actions e.g. paying off credit card debt retiring at age 60 paying for a child s college education etc. . Risk tolerance information refers to information that the institution system may determine that is directed to the user s tolerance for risk based on the user s actions over time and other factors.

The financial planning engine may include a user interface module an integration and aggregation engine an analyzer and advice generator an internal data source access engine and an external data source access engine . The user interface module may generate and format one or more pages of content as a unified graphical presentation that may be provided to the user computing device as an output from the financial planning engine . The page s of content may be provided to the user computing device via a website associated with the institution system .

The financial planning engine has access to data pertaining to the user including data that is currently stored by the institution that maintains the financial planning engine as well as a user s external accounts. The integration and aggregation engine provides the financial planning engine the ability to retrieve information from one or more internal data sources and one or more external data sources concurrently in an implementation via an internal data source access engine and an external data source access engine respectively. Data pertaining to the user may be retrieved from internal source s as well as external data source s . The retrieved data may be stored centrally perhaps in storage associated with the institution system such as storage .

Internal data source s may contain data that the institution system maintains pertaining to the user such as personal data such as marital status and age as well as financial data such as account balances outstanding loans credit card debt etc. For instance the user may have a checking account a credit card and an auto loan with the institution system and this information may be retrieved and used by the financial planning engine .

External data source s may contain additional data pertaining to the user such as additional personal data and or financial data. External data source s may be associated with one or more entities that may be independent of each other. Each of the external data source s may be a computer system that maintains financial information or financial accounts of the user that is not maintained by the institution system . It is contemplated that any number of external data sources may be in communication with the institution system and may provide any type of data associated with users thereto.

Various external data sources are shown such as credit cards financial institutions financial software applications and public databases . The external data source s may be in communication with the institution system via a network such as the Internet. Additional example sources of data may include bank accounts retirement accounts brokerage accounts mutual funds annuities certificates of deposits and investment accounts for example along with publicly available information. For example data from investment and retirement accounts might include mutual funds bonds etc. and may be acquired and used in financial planning.

The integration and aggregation engine may receive user information from the internal and external data source access engines and and may provide that information to the analyzer and advice generator . Via the internal and external data source access engines and in an implementation the integration and aggregation engine may receive user data from the various external data sources as well as the internal data source s which may contain previously retrieved data and or data that is hosted by the institution and may provide that information to the analyzer and advice generator .

The user data may be contained within a host financial institution e.g. the institution that maintains or uses the financial planning engine or contained in external institutions for example. The received user data may also be stored in internal data source s . Data that is aggregated may include income expenses assets risk profile risk tolerance and plan horizon for example. Additionally data from investment and retirement accounts that might include mutual funds bonds etc. may be acquired aggregated and used in the financial planning. In this manner a more complete set of a user s assets and liabilities may be used for financial planning determination. So for example spending and income from relevant areas may be retrieved stored and analyzed for financial planning.

A user may provide access to this data with the host financial institution prior to the financial plan being generated or after the financial plan has been generated in order to provide additional data for a revised financial plan . The access may be granted by providing the appropriate credentials for the external accounts to the host institution that is generating the financial plan. The access may be one time persistent or for a limited duration e.g. 6 months for example. The aggregated data may be stored in internal data source s for example and may be automatically updated periodically if access to the external data may still be obtained.

The external data items may be retrieved screen scraped through private third party websites e.g. websites associated with credit cards and financial institutions if the user has provided permission and proper credentials for accessing such private third party websites. Publicly available data might include data acquired from sites and resources such as the stock market government pages that publish inflation rates and other items that might be used in financial planning for example. Screen scraping is well known and it is contemplated that any appropriate screen scraping product or technique may be used.

After retrieving and storing the data from the various sources the analyzer and advice generator may use tools calculators applications and aggregators for example to generate a financial plan scenario information and or risk tolerance information . Or alternatively the analyzer and advice generator may access the external data from the source s in direct response to the user request for financial advice. Because the access had previously been granted the analyzer and advice generator may extract the data for the analysis based on the access.

In an implementation the analyzer and advice generator may include one or more of a portfolio planner a financial assessment tool a budget generating tool an asset allocation tool a life insurance determination calculator a retirement advice generator bank calculators debt analyzers retirement income planners etc. The analyzer and advice generator may evaluate the user information e.g. the personal information and the financial information pertaining to the user and generate a financial plan that may comprise financial advice and or recommendations for the user . Scenario information and risk tolerance information may also be generated.

In an implementation after the external data is acquired it may be used to pre fill or personalize certain portions of a questionnaire that may be provided to a user to request additional information that may be useful for generating a financial plan scenario information and or risk tolerance information. The fields or items remaining without user data after the pre filling or personalization may then be identified and brought to the user s attention e.g. by highlighting these items on the user computing device or by using another identifying mechanism to show the user what information is still needed. This information if any may then be manually provided by the user . Additionally or alternatively additional information may be requested from the user to further refine an already generated financial plan scenario information and or risk tolerance information. The external data may be stored in the internal data source s after it is acquired.

In an implementation the financial plan the scenario information and or the risk tolerance information along with any financial advice and recommendations may be integrated into a single unified presentation which may then be sent to the user interface module for presentation to the user . Through this mechanism the user may quickly see the financial plan the scenario information and or the risk tolerance information that have been generated for them. Thus in an implementation a financial plan may be provided online e.g. via the website to the user and as described further herein may be updated continuously or periodically by the institution system . Scenario information and risk tolerance information may also be provided online to the user.

The user may interface with the institution system via the website that may display one or more pages of content to the user on the user computing device . A self service financial advice request may be received at the institution system through any suitable means such as interaction with a web browser that is in communication with a financial advice server or other computing device within the institution system . The actual mechanism of connection is outside the scope of the present discussion.

The self service financial advice request may be processed by the financial planning engine which then provides the user with a financial plan or other information such as scenario information and or the risk tolerance information .

In an implementation the user may be provided with advice recommendations and or a plan directed to asset management estate planning insurance investments and retirement for example. The financial plan may comprise a set of recommendations and strategies for the user to use. For example recommendations and strategies may be provided that are directed to income in retirement income for shortfall or surplus income distribution pre retirement savings asset allocation recommendations asset withdrawal strategies and recommendations for re allocation from wealth building to income generating. Additionally specific product recommendations may be provided along with a list of suitable products for user consideration for example.

The financial plan may also comprise a financial profile for the user who may use it to create and maintain financial information about the user . The financial profile may include income assets liabilities and social security and pension information for example. The institution system may continuously on a real time basis or periodically repeatedly over a period of time monitor the user s data the financial profile and the user s implementation of recommendations set forth in the financial plan and revise the financial plan and risk tolerance information accordingly. In an implementation scenario information may be revised. In this manner real time or periodic updates to the financial plan scenario information and or risk tolerance information may be provided to the user .

The financial planning engine may provide a questionnaire to the user that requests information from the user such as financial objectives current income investments risk tolerance expenses tax returns insurance coverage retirement programs estate plans and other pertinent information that may be used to generate a financial plan that meets the user s overall or specific financial agenda. The questionnaire may be pre filled or personalized with data already known to the institution system pertaining to the user perhaps from existing accounts that the user has with the institution system . The institution system may generate a financial plan based at least in part on the questionnaire. The questionnaire may also be used in the determination of scenario information and risk tolerance information .

The user computing device may provide user access to a system which is coupled to the financial planning engine and is configured to receive a plurality of user requests at least one of which is a financial advice request . A system may be configured to format and transmit a graphical user interface to user and through the graphical user interface provide the user the ability to interact with and manipulate the financial advice recommendations and or financial plan provided by the institution system .

A user access system may be communicatively coupled to the financial planning engine and may be configured to send machine readable instructions to the financial planning engine . Those instructions may cause the financial planning engine to access one or more internal and one or more external data sources and respectively.

As mentioned above the financial planning engine may provide a unified graphical presentation output. The unified graphical presentation may be transmitted to the user access system. In an implementation the unified graphical presentation is combined with other materials and transmitted to the user . In an implementation the unified graphical presentation is received by the user access system and transmitted directly to the user without the inclusion of any other materials.

The user access system may be implemented as a web server in an implementation. The user access system through the use of any suitable interactive web technology provides an interactive experience to the user through which access to and maintenance of their financial advice recommendations scenario information risk tolerance information and or financial plan can be accomplished. Any technology that provides interactivity through a web browser is considered to be within the scope of the present discussion and may include without limitation Hyper Text Mark Up Language HTML Dynamic HTML DHTML JavaScript and Ajax.

In an implementation the institution may be a financial services institution having a financial services website. On the website in a common space the user may be presented with financial advice recommendations scenario information risk tolerance information and or a financial plan.

The institution system may comprise one or more computing devices . A user computing device may allow a user to interact with the computing device s . The computing device s may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules . The computing device s including its processor s storage and software modules may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein. Information associated with the user may be stored in storage or other storage such as one or more internal data sources for example.

Examples of software modules may include modules for identifying and authenticating a user generating a questionnaire acquiring and aggregating user data analyzing user data generating web page content for display and receiving instructions from a user described further herein. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. The functionality may be distributed among more than one module. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

At operation a questionnaire may be generated or retrieved from storage associated with the institution system. The questionnaire may request information from the user that may be analyzed and used to generate a financial plan comprising financial advice and or recommendations for example scenario information and risk tolerance information. Prior to providing the questionnaire to the user the questionnaire may be pre filled or personalized with data that is known to the institution system about the user such as the user s name address and social security number at operation . This information may be retrieved from storage associated with the institution system.

At operation the questionnaire may be electronically provided to the user via the website or email for example. The user may then fill out the questionnaire responding to any questions or requests for information contained in the questionnaire and electronically provide the filled out questionnaire back to the institution system at operation . The user may provide the questionnaire via the website email or any other electronic means.

At operation the institution system retrieves the user s personal and financial information from various internal and external data sources. For example the user may maintain bank accounts credit cards loans and insurance with the institution system and this information may be retrieved from the institution system s storage. Additional account asset liability and other information may be maintained by one or more entities external to the institution system and this information may be retrieved as well. In an implementation as described further herein the user may provide the institution system with authorization and or access instructions to access the information from the external data sources.

At operation an analyzer and advice generator associated with the institution system may receive and analyze the information pertaining to the user that was obtained from the questionnaire as well as from the internal and external data sources. The analyzer and advice generator may be an application that receives the information analyzes the information and generates a financial plan that is tailored to the user in one or more of the areas of investment planning retirement planning tax planning estate planning and risk management for example. The financial plan with financial advice and recommendations may be electronically provided to the user via a website or email for example at operation .

It is contemplated that a user may provide a what if or scenario request online e.g. via a website accessible from a computing device such as a personal computer a personal digital assistant or mobile phone or in a telephone virtual menu with touch keypad or voice prompts that may include intelligent voice recognition for example. Settings and options for the features described herein may be implemented as drop down lists or radio buttons for example.

The institution system may receive the request at operation generate scenario information based on the request and the underlying financial plan and provide the scenario information to the user. The scenario information may include alternative or additional financial advice and or recommendations in addition to a revised financial plan. The provided revised financial plan advice and or recommendations are based on the hypothetical s provided by the user and are not meant to replace the existing financial plan. In an implementation the scenario information may be stored by the institution system or the user e.g. on the user computing device for future reference by the user. At any time if the user desires additional scenario information the user may provide another request with processing continuing at operation .

The institution system e.g. a financial planning engine associated with the institution system continuously monitors whether any of the recommendations that had been provided to the user are acted on by the user at operation . For example the institution system may check the internal and external data sources continuously or periodically e.g. hourly daily at a predetermined time and day of the week etc. to determine if any action has been taken by the user that is directed to the previously provided recommendations.

The institution system also continuously monitors the user data in the internal and external data sources at operation . For example a financial planning engine may check the internal and external data sources continuously or periodically e.g. hourly daily at a predetermined time and day of the week etc. to determine if any personal or financial data pertaining to the user has been changed since the most recent financial plan had been generated and provided to the user. Thus life events pertaining to the user may be monitored. For example the marital status or number of children of the user may change the user may have a change in job or salary or may have an increase in assets or liabilities. In an implementation the institution system may contact the user via email or telephone for example and request information from the user regarding any action that the user may have taken pursuant to the financial plan or any data pertaining to the user that may have changed that may impact the financial plan.

In an implementation the institution system may provide a financial profile to the user who may update it as they take any action based on the financial plan if their personal or financial information changes as their financial goals change or as the desired probabilities of success of their goals change for example. The financial profile may be stored in storage that is accessible to the institution system and the institution system may continuously or periodically monitor the financial profile to determine if any recommendations in the financial plan have been acted on if any data that is pertinent to the financial plan may have changed or if the financial goals or desired probabilities have changed. The institution system may send a request to the user from time to time via email or telephone for example requesting that the user update the financial profile.

If it is determined that a recommendation has been acted on the data has changed the goals have changed or the desired probabilities of success have changed the financial plan that had been previously generated and provided to the user may be revised and processing may continue at operation . The financial plan data goals and recommendations may be monitored and updated or revised based on the monitoring.

Scenario information may be generated at operation . The scenario information may be based on various risk tolerances of the user various probabilities of success of reaching goals set forth in the financial plan and or various life event scenarios for example. Scenario information may be generated by the institution system periodically or upon user request for example. The institution system may determine the factors or scenarios under which the scenario information is to be generated e.g. based on information the institution system may have about the user e.g. assets liabilities life events age recent purchases or debt pay offs etc. . At operation the scenario information may be provided to the user and stored.

At some point at operation the user may provide revisions to the underlying data e.g. the what ifs the hypotheticals etc. that is used in determining the scenario information. Such revisions may include changes to risk tolerances probabilities of success or life event scenarios for example. The user may provide the revisions to the institution system e.g. via a website or email where they are received and processed. At operation the scenario information may be revised based on the revisions to the underlying data provided by the user. The revised scenario information may be stored and provided to the user.

As described above with respect to the method the institution system continuously monitors whether any of the recommendations that had been provided to the user are acted on by the user. Such monitoring may be performed at operation along with a continuous monitoring of the user data in the internal and external data sources. If it is determined that a recommendation has been acted on the data has changed the goals have changed or the desired probabilities of success have changed the financial plan that had been previously generated and provided to the user may be revised and processing may continue at operation . The financial plan data goals and recommendations may be monitored and updated or revised based on the monitoring.

At operation the user s actions and the data pertaining to the user that underlies the financial plan may be monitored over time with respect to various financial data such as financial market data movement and or fluctuations changes in interest rates changes in inflation rates etc. The institution system may analyze the data received from the monitoring at operation and determine the user s risk tolerance. For example the user s financial actions during a stock market correction a period of rising interest rates a period of inflation etc. may provide an indication as to the user s tolerance for risk. The user may be advised of the determined risk tolerance.

At operation a revised financial plan may be generated based on the original financial plan and the determined user s risk tolerance. The revised financial plan may be provided to the user at operation via a website or email for example. In an implementation both the original financial plan and the revised financial plan may be provided to the user for comparison. The user may wish to implement one of the financial plans for example and may provide such a selection or indication to the institution system. Both the original financial plan and the revised financial plan may be stored for future reference by the user and or the institution system.

As described above the institution system continuously monitors whether any of the recommendations that had been provided to the user are acted on by the user. Such monitoring may be performed at operation along with a continuous monitoring of the user data in the internal and external data sources. If it is determined that a change has occurred or a recommendation has been acted on the financial plan that had been previously generated and provided to the user may be revised and processing may continue at operation .

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to personal computers PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and includes both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

