---

title: Intelligent clearing network
abstract: In an embodiment, a system for redeeming coupons, promotions, or incentives comprises a network through which a Point-of-Sale (POS) terminal communicates, through a POS controller, with an Intelligent Clearing Network (ICN) server. One or both of the POS terminal and POS controller are installed with POS bridge software. The ICN server is configured to run a real time software application while in communication with the POS terminal, wherein the POS terminal transmits coupon transaction information including universal product codes to the ICN server via the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09098855&OS=09098855&RS=09098855
owner: Intelligent Clearing Network, Inc.
number: 09098855
owner_city: Plainville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080909
---
This application is a continuation in part patent application which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 439 725 filed May 23 2006 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The invention relates to the distribution and electronic processing of coupons and or incentives and in particular to a network based system and method for validating and redeeming coupons.

Coupons provide benefits to manufacturers and consumers. For example coupons are a beneficial way for manufacturers to test consumer interest in specific products determine optimal pricing and move out older inventory. Mail by the postal system newspapers and stores usually serve as outlets for providing coupons to consumers. Consumers benefit because coupons are universally accepted follow GS1 including Uniform Commercial Code guidelines are easily understood by consumers and require no prior notification to a retailer. The coupons may be clipped out from the source document.

However there are several disadvantages to using coupons. These include for the consumer the labor and time expended in clipping and organizing coupons. For the manufacturer and retailer the manual clearing of coupons is labor intensive and may not provide vital market intelligence for weeks or months. Extended barcodes providing useful marketing intelligence to manufacturers are not captured by a retailer and therefore are not available to manufacturers until the coupon completes a manual clearing process. Mistakes in printing coupons also can last for the duration of a promotion.

Accordingly there is need for a fast convenient way for processing coupons and or offers and quickly providing comprehensive market intelligence to retailers and manufacturers. There also is a need for a way to facilitate using coupons whether at a retailer site or through a web site.

In accordance with an aspect of the invention a system is provided that comprises an Intelligent Clearing Network ICN network a point of sale POS terminal a POS controller an ICN server wherein the POS terminal transmits first coupon and or incentive related information at the POS terminal to the POS controller for redemption and validation via the network at the ICN server the first coupon and or incentive related information including universal product codes contained in a transaction.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a method for processing at least one of coupons and incentives comprises reading first coupon or incentive related information from a terminal the first coupon or incentive related information including universal product code information transmitting the first coupon or incentive related information through a network to a coupon and or incentive processing server for validation and redemption if the coupon and or incentive processing server validates the first coupon or incentive related information transmitting second coupon or incentive related information through the network to the terminal.

In accordance with a further aspect of the invention a computer readable medium storing computer code for processing coupons and or incentives across a network comprising computer code for transferring first coupon and or incentive related information including universal product code information from a terminal across the network computer code for receiving interpreting and comparing the first coupon and or incentive related information at a coupon and or incentive processing server if a coupon and or incentive code is validated computer code for retrieving coupon and or incentive codes and any corresponding target universal product codes triggered by the validation of the coupon and or incentive codes from a centralized database computer code for transmitting the retrieved coupon and or incentive codes to the terminal via the network and computer code for redeeming the coupon and or incentive codes.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the invention a computer readable medium storing computer code for processing coupons across a network comprises computer code for permitting a user to download and print out a coupon accessed via the world wide web the coupon having first coupon related information computer code for transferring the first coupon related information including universal product code information from a terminal across the network computer code for receiving interpreting and comparing the first coupon incentive related information at a coupon processing server if a coupon code is validated computer code for retrieving coupon codes and any corresponding target universal product codes triggered by the validation of the coupon codes from a centralized database computer code for transmitting the retrieved coupon codes to the terminal via the network and computer code for redeeming the coupon codes.

In another aspect of the invention a point of sale POS terminal comprises a first interface configured to receive information regarding a transaction to purchase at least one product a second interface configured to receive information from and transmit information to a retailer server a processor and a memory for storing a point of sale bridge software configured to redeem a manufacturer coupon and or incentive contained in a promotion request message received through the second interface the processor configured to receive information from the first interface and to receive and transmit information through the second interface and configured to execute the point of sale bridge software.

In still a further aspect of the invention a point of sale POS retailer server comprises a first interface for receiving information from and transmitting information to a point of sale terminal a second interface for receiving information from and transmitting information to an intelligent clearing network server via a network a processor and a memory configured to store a point of sale bridge software configured to format a promotion request message and send the promotion request message in real time to an intelligent clearing network server promotion redemption real time service the processor being configured to receive and transmit information through the first and second interfaces and configured to execute the point of sale bridge software.

In an aspect of the invention an Intelligent Clearing Network ICN server comprises a processor an interface configured to permit communications over a network an ICN database wherein the processor of the ICN server is configured to control the execution of an ICN promotion manager application an ICN database application and an ICN promotion redemption service and is configured to receive and transmit data and commands through the interface.

Non limiting embodiments of the invention are further described below. However it should be appreciated that some of the features of the embodiments of the invention may be used to advantage without the corresponding use of other features. As such the foregoing description should be considered as merely illustrative of the principles of the invention and not in limitation thereof. Further one skilled in the art may appreciate that the invention can be practiced by other than the described embodiments that these described embodiments are presented for the purposes of illustration and not of limitation.

Embodiments of the invention relate to a coupon processing system and method that allows for automatic processing of coupons and provides linkage between a coupon card and coupon information stored in a centralized database. The coupon processing may entail validation and invalidation and when validated redemption of the appropriate coupon s or other appropriate action. The embodiments present novel ways of bundling technologies including existing technologies such as real time communications and large volume data processing facilities into a functioning operational platform and also present novel ways for doing business. Consumers may use the coupon card for a variety of products offered by a manufacturer and or retailer.

An ICN is a system that can provide for the electronic validation and redemption of coupons and or incentives through real time communications and a centralized database such as ICN database which is coupled to the ICN server . The ICN server executes software applications that process coupons for one or more manufacturers who have transacted with the owner of the ICN server to provide such processing. The ICN server is accessible via a retailer s wide area or other network WAN or other network and has an ICN promotion redemption service PRS installed and running in real time to accept connections over a configured listening transfer control protocol port. In embodiments a plurality of manufacturer servers may be configured to communicate with the ICN server . The ICN server may tabulate the raw data of the coupon processing transactions for a specific manufacturer and provide the tabulated data to the specific manufacturer in the form of reports.

Coupon and or incentive processing typically includes validation and redemption and the supplying of the raw data to the appropriate manufacturer. In the embodiment shown in a coupon card may be read by a card reader at a retail store or other establishment. The coupon information from the coupon card may then be sent to the Point of Sale POS terminal which then may transmit the information to the retail store server . The central component of a POS terminal is the processor than executes software application s . The POS terminal may include a processor memory input output interface circuitry and the software application s to reformat coupon information in an appropriate digital form. The retail store server may record the coupon information and may transmit it to server such as an ICN server via a network . The retail store server which may be a retail POS controller includes a processor and input output interfaces as needed and may be implemented as a microprocessor based device a main frame a stand alone computer or a network of computing devices. An ICN server may be a server dedicated solely to the processing of manufacturers coupons and includes a processor. Associated with the server may be a centralized database that is incorporated within the server or may be a stand alone device or storage system such as a Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID . The network may be an internet such as the World Wide Web an intranet an extranet or another network and may use wired or wireless technology or a mixture of wired and wireless technology. The ICN server then may notify the manufacturer of a completed transaction or completed set of transactions by sending status information to the manufacturer s server . As in the case of the ICN server the manufacturer s server may also include a processor input output interfaces and memory to perform the function of processing coupons. The manufacturer s database may be stored within a memory of the manufacturer s server or as a stand alone device or system. Instead of transmitting coupon information from the retail server to the ICN server the coupon information may be transmitted from the retail server to the appropriate manufacturer s server for redemption. In this alternative embodiment the manufacturer s server notifies the ICN server of the coupon redemption as shown in .

The coupon and or incentive processing system e.g. ICN system distributes coupon codes such as standard Uniform Code Council System coupon codes or GS1 coupon codes associated with a coupon card. In an embodiment the coupon card may be a one use card. In another embodiment the coupon card may be useable as long as at least one coupon offer has not expired for a product that has yet to be purchased or a product limit that has not been attained. In yet another embodiment the coupon card may be updated so as to provide additional coupon offers to a consumer. In still a further embodiment the coupon card may be a permanent coupon card in which coupon information is updateable via a manufacturer s server or a coupon processing server.

Embodiments of the invention relate to information associated with a coupon card. A unique account number may be assigned to the consumer coupon card on a magnetic ink character recognition strip i.e. magstripe on the back of the consumer coupon card. A magstripe card has a strip of binding material containing ferromagnetic particles which is capable of storing data and is read by a reader head such as may be found in magnetic card readers. The system may include a centralized database containing the unique account numbers assigned to each card and a list of available manufacturer coupon codes assigned to the account numbers on each coupon card. The coupon card may link the consumer at the Point of Sale POS to a centralized database where the coupons promotions or incentives reside. The linkage of one or more coupons promotions or incentives to a coupon card may be set at the time the coupon card is provided with a unique account number or shortly thereafter. In embodiments where the coupons promotions or incentives may be updated the coupon card account number may be linked to various coupons promotions or incentives at various times. In distribution methods contemplated by the invention the consumer may receive a coupon card through a variety of ways including but not limited to on a product s package newspapers magazines postal system mail or in store promotions. In one embodiment during checkout the cashier presses a coupon card function key on the POS terminal and the consumer may slide his or her coupon card through the card reader whereupon the POS terminal software may establish a communications link with a server such as the retailer s server or other computing device and transmit the account number on the coupon card over the store s real time communication line to the centralized database of a coupon processing computer such as an Intelligent Clearing Network server . The centralized database application may validate the account number query the centralized database for any active coupon codes found and transmit the first set of digits alphanumeric characters consisting of information such as the NSC Number System Code Manufacturer Number Family Code and Value Code of each active coupon code back to the POS terminal. Then the POS terminal may begin a validation process to validate each coupon code against products purchased by the consumer for any coupon code redeemed and the POS application upon validation of a coupon code may transmit back to the centralized database the second set of digits alphanumeric characters corresponding to the redeemed coupon code such as the NSC Number System Code Manufacturer Number Family Code and Value Code. In an example of an implementation the first set and second set of digits are eleven digits each in the case of a system coupon and or twelve digits each in the case of a system coupon. The first and second set of digits may have an equal number of digits alphanumeric characters or a different number of digits or alphanumeric characters. For example the first set of digits may include 13 alphanumeric characters and the second set 11 alphanumeric characters.

The coupon card may be formed on a substrate such as plastic or paper or other medium that is typically flexible sufficiently durable and cost effective to produce. For example a 10 mil thick plastic sheet may be sized to the length and width of a credit card or key ring card. Thus the coupon card may advantageously be of various sizes including the form of a credit card grocery store shopper s card or key ring for ease of carrying in a wallet or purse or on a key ring.

As shown in the front of the coupon card may display an image of one or more products for which the coupon card offers a discount including an image of the amount and conditions of the savings. The displayed image may be formed through printing directly on the substrate or through application of a preprinted label. Other image forming techniques may be used including polytronic labeling. To better protect the information on a coupon card non optically readable technology may be used. The non optically readable technology may include electromagnetics magnetics or smart card technology. As shown in in an embodiment the back of the coupon card has a swipe strip preferably a Magnetic Ink Character Recognition MICR strip. Alternatively Radio Frequency Identification RFID technology or other electromagnetics technology such as Radio Frequency Data Communication RFDC may be employed. Where an RFID coupon card is implemented the corresponding electronic circuitry on the coupon card may be formed on or adhered to the substrate of the coupon card. Yet alternatively optically readable technology such as optically scannable bar codes may be used. In an optically readable embodiment coupon identification information may be provided in a user viewable form on the back of the coupon card . In certain embodiments biometric identification techniques may be employed. For example in a biometric identification embodiment a fingerprint scanning pad may be attached or placed proximate to the card reader in which a communications link is established between the fingerprint scanning pad and the POS terminal.

Embodiments of the invention offer a way for Consumer Package Good s CPG manufacturers i.e. manufacturers of consumables such as cleaning products food beverages clothing and the like to distribute GS1 Uniform Code Council guideline or other coupons without the need of an optically readable barcode. Through a Direct Mail promotion In Store promotion or a Free Standing Insert FSI in the Sunday newspaper the consumer may receive an insert sheet or flyer with a coupon card having a Magnetic Ink Character Recognition strip on its back. To aid a consumer a shopping list as shown in may be provided along with a removable coupon card detachable or removable from the insert sheet or flyer . To further aid a consumer coupon information may be printed or labeled on the insert sheet or flyer . The coupon information in an embodiment may provide a list of one or more brands with the amount of savings on a purchase for example Brand A s coupon may be a 50 cent off coupon Brand B may require a purchase of two Brand B products for a savings of 2 Brand C may offer a 60 cent savings when purchased with Brand D etc. Additionally a space may be dedicated to advertising such as by displaying an image of one or more of the products and another space dedicated to miscellaneous information such as a recipe. The revenue source for the coupons may be the manufacturer of Consumer Package Goods CPG . The CPG manufacturer may pay for printing and distributing coupons on the coupon processing network including FSI pages Direct Mail and In Store on package printing or labeling coupon clearing fees and real time data feeds for up to date promotion analysis and accounting.

The method of distributing redeeming and clearing Manufacturer Coupons may benefit all three groups involved in the transaction consumers retailers and manufacturers. The benefit to consumers is the ease of use because clipping and or organizing coupons is no longer needed. The benefits to the retailer are reducing the labor associated with processing paper coupons and substantially reducing the time it takes to receive reimbursement for the promotions from the manufacturer. The benefits to the manufacturer potentially include a better product for the consumer resulting in increase response rates real time promotion tracking faster and more reliable accounting and a reduction in fraud associated with paper coupons.

Thus embodiments disclosed provide a system and method that may be used for electronically distributing and clearing a variety of coupons. Each coupon may have a code. Each coupon code may include a base portion and an extended portion. For example the embodiments may be used with GS1 coupons such as the formerly designated Uniform Code Council UCC system five and system ninety nine manufacturer coupons. GS1 format standards are maintained by the GS1 standards organization formerly known as the Uniform Code Council. In an embodiment similar to debit credit and Electronic Benefit Transactions EBT the POS terminal reads a unique code from a coupon code and transmits this unique code to a centralized database such as the centralized database of a coupon processing server via a network.

An example of an implementation of the coupon processing method of the invention is provided. A coupon card with unique coupon card account number 12345678 may have a coupon for 0.50 off a 2 liter beverage drink assigned to it for example 54900011050x where x is the check digit. The check digit may be useful for paper coupons with barcodes being scanned by a scanner. On the ICN centralized database the full coupon code assigned to card may include a string of digits or alphanumeric characters such as 54900011050 8101 0 88062 0306. The consumer may purchase a 2 liter beverage drink with for example UPC code 0 49000 06390 and may swipe his or her coupon card. The POS terminal may transmit the coupon card account number 12345678 to the ICN server. The ICN server may then send back a corresponding coupon code e.g. 54900011050 to the POS terminal. The POS terminal then may determine if the coupon code is valid through a validation process such as standard coupon validation routines. The POS terminal may send back to ICN a redeemed coupon code e.g. 54900011050 and a triggering UPC product code e.g. 04900006390. The ICN server may also provide in real time to the beverage drink manufacturer the fully redeemed coupon code the location of the redemption transaction and the product that triggered the redemption.

The method for processing coupons may include reading first coupon related information from a coupon card at a Point of Sale POS terminal. The first coupon related information may be householder identifier information account identification or the like. The first coupon related information may be transmitted through a network to coupon processing server. If the coupon processing server validates the first coupon related information second coupon related information may be transmitted from the coupon processing server through the network to the POS terminal. The second coupon related information may be one or more system or system coupon codes available to the identified consumer and may include the NSC Number System Code Manufacturer Number Family Code and Value Code.

An alternative embodiment is provided in . The unique coupon card account number may be written to an MICR strip on the coupon card . The magnetic strip side of a coupon card is shown . The coupon code may be assigned to the card on the coupon processing server centralized database . A consumer may slide the coupon card through the MICR reader during a POS transaction . The POS software application may transmit the read unique coupon card account number to the coupon processing server as part of a message package that identifies the retailer and the POS terminal first coupon related information . The coupon processing server may check to determine if the unique coupon card account number is valid . If the account number is not valid the coupon processing server may return a decline message to the POS software application . If the account number is validated the coupon processing server database application may search for coupon codes assigned to the coupon card . A determination may be made as to whether there are active coupons available on the coupon card . If not the coupon processing server may return a no coupons available message to the POS software application . If the coupon code is validated active coupon codes e.g. system or codes assigned to the card may be transmitted back to the POS for validation against purchases as part of a message package that identifies the retailer and POS terminal second coupon related information . For example the first 11 digits of the coupon code may be transmitted to the POS terminal for validation . A determination may be made as to redemption of the coupon s . If there has been no redemption of the coupon s the POS may resume the transaction . For coupons which are redeemed the POS may send back the redeemed coupon code of the product which triggered the coupon redemption to the coupon processing server centralized database along with the original redeemed coupon code information the location of the retailer identification of the POS terminal and time of purchase third coupon related information . The coupon processing server centralized database application may update the unique coupon card account number with the time date amount location and other information relating to the redemption activity . The coupon processing server may generate a report to the manufacturer regarding the coupon redemption transaction as requested or periodically to provide quick market intelligence to a CPG manufacturer.

Embodiments of the method of the invention may be implemented through instructions stored on a computer readable medium on a data storage device which when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform the designated operations. The instructions may be stored in computer readable medium in a distributed fashion across two or more computing devices or as a single computing device. The computing devices may be one or more of the above mentioned servers. In an embodiment the computer readable medium may be a small flash drive that connects to a Universal Serial Bus USB port of a POS terminal a retailer server or the like. For example a small flash drive may measure less than about 10 cm 3 cm 3 cm or may be pen sized dimensions such as 71 mm 20 mm 8 mm.

In an embodiment a computer readable medium storing computer code for processing coupons across a network in response to the non optical reading of a coupon card includes computer code for reading identification code from a coupon card that is non optically read at a Point of Sale terminal computer code for processing and formatting the read identification code computer code for transmitting the formatted identification code across the network computer code for receiving interpreting and validating the identification code at coupon processing server if the identification code is validated computer code for retrieving coupon codes corresponding to the identification code from a centralized database computer code for transmitting the retrieved coupon codes to the Point of Sale terminal via the network and computer code for redeeming the coupon codes.

The coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method offers advantages including 1 being easy to use 2 saving time and money 3 providing better validation 4 expanding promotion tracking 5 increasing response rates and 6 reducing fraud. The coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method are easy to use because there is no clipping or organizing of coupons and the coupon card may be discarded after the coupons are redeemed. The coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method saves time and money because it avoids the manual counting and clearing of paper for both retailers and manufacturers. Coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method coupons clear electronically so that financial settlements may be completed in a short period of time such as hours rather than weeks or months. Coupon coding errors may be corrected immediately as manufacturers avoid the handling of misprinted coupons that may circulate for months at a time. The coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method provides better validation because the expiration dates are enforced by the coupon processing server. Expired coupons are recognized as such and are not sent to the POS for validation. Paper coupons may not be redeemed at a POS because of a faulty barcode or improper coding or printing. With the coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method described herein the use of a magnetic ink character recognition strip or RFID eliminates the problem of poorly printed barcodes. Invalid coupon codes may be corrected immediately in the centralized database. The coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method expands promotion tracking with the real time reporting of coupon redemptions. Manufacturers are provided with the product information for the product the consumer purchased to trigger the coupon redemption. Manufacturers may track results at the individual household level by assigning unique numbers to the extended portion of the coupon code s application identifier.

Embodiments of the coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method described herein also increases response rates by making the process of collecting and redeeming coupons easier and more in line with today s technology. The coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method further reduces fraud as each coupon may be redeemed only once. Advantageously the coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method centralized database in accordance with embodiments does not transmit to the POS a coupon which has already been redeemed. The coupon processing server coupled to the centralized database may also track in real time redemptions by store. Alternatively the centralized database may have one or more coupon processing processors built into it. Each redemption transaction has a date and time stamp. Abnormal transaction volumes from a particular store may be identified to prevent store personnel and or others from fraudulently redeeming coupons for personal gain to meet or exceed sales goals and the like. The coupon processing server coupon distribution and processing system and method may prevent the assembling of a large volume of newspaper inserts to redeem coupons without selling the corresponding product. In another example if someone were to determine how account numbers are generated on the coupon cards the coupon processing serve may monitor in real time the volume and traffic of redeemed coupons and identify abnormalities to prevent coupon counterfeiting.

A further advantage is that embodiments may be implemented to provide a direct competitor to various marketing services by distributing coupon cards through Direct Mail In Store and FSI or implemented as a service provider to marketing services. For example marketing services companies may be charged for the distribution of coupons on the coupon processing server in which case the business model may be executed with less expense.

If a coupon is determined to be valid but the retailer is temporarily out of stock provisions may be made to issue a rain check electronically. The electronic rain check may be stored in the centralized database. Alternatively in lieu of a rain check the coupon processing server may offer a different product of the manufacturer at a special rate to the consumer.

As part of the system and method of the invention in an embodiment in store scanners may also be provided to allow a consumer to reveal unexpired and unused coupons available through his or her coupon card.

In an embodiment Consumer Package Good s CPG manufacturers may create and maintain their own shopper card program. For example CPG manufacturer A may offer consumers a program in which each consumer or consumer household may sign up for a permanent card number. A consumer using such a coupon card may supply sufficient identification at the Point of Sale. This identification may include a driver s license a passport or other identification means such as entry of a special code or biometrics scanning. The consumer upon enrolling in a CPG manufacturer s program and being assigned a permanent coupon card may then select discounts from CPG manufacturer A s web site in which the discounts would then be assigned to that permanent coupon card through a registration process using a centralized database of CPG manufacturer A.

Although some embodiments have been described with the use of a coupon card embodiments of the invention may be practiced without a coupon card. Embodiments of the invention realized without a coupon card may be found in and . The embodiments described in in which a coupon card can be employed may also be adapted to not use a coupon card and instead to either permit a consumer to opt in to coupons promotions or incentives or permit a consumer to receive a discount on a product having a target UPC when the target product and or a trigger product are purchased. A coupon as used herein is generally a paper plastic or other sufficiently physically durable incentive or discount having a manufacturer s UPC bar code to identify the product being discounted. It may generally be delivered via an FSI or direct mail where paper is the delivery vehicle. An incentive may be a non paper e.g. purely electronic discount e.g. a discount not embodied on a physical medium provided via an in store web or mobile device delivery. Both coupons and incentives may provide a vehicle for delivering discounts that the ICN technology captures when the UPC bar code of a product being purchased is scanned at the POS terminal. A promotion may be the event that delivers coupons and or incentives. An FSI paper coupon is an example of a promotion. An in store tag incentive offering a discount for buying two of an item is another example of a promotion.

In addition to the embodiments referenced above in which media companies which produce media products may be provided with multiple coupon offers like FSI s Free Standing Inserts a control number to avoid multiple redemptions of the same coupons and the ability to track redemptions based on circulation embodiments of the invention also can allow for activation of coupons based on or only on the contents of the consumer s basket or allowing the consumer to opt into promotions via the internet or mobile device. This can allow for consumers to participate in in store media promotions based on or only on the occurrence of the promoted products being present in the consumer s transaction at the POS.

The ICN system can facilitate incentive management . As an embodiment of a method of incentive management shows that ICN may assign each third party e.g. a retailer a media company or a manufacturer a unique identifier to securely log into the ICN promotion manager a web application used for incentive management and real time reporting. A retailer headquarters may send redemption data validation of offers corresponding to the UPC . A manufacturer may receive detailed redemption reports in real time . The ICN may receive redemption information as an independent third party reporter of validation and redemption . The ICN may generate complete redemption reports and submit these to the CPG manufacturer or distributor if there are no disputes . The ICN may activate a bank automated clearing house ACH transfer to a retailer for incentive and handling media charges . Information regarding the automated clearing house ACH transfer may be sent to the ICN accounts receivable A R management which may then generate invoicing summaries and accounts receivables reports that may then be electronically submitted to retailer headquarters .

The ICN promotion manager may be a secure portal that enables complete promotion set up and control and serves as a user interface for defining retailer identity promotion composition and promotion availability. The promotion manager may be implemented as a web application and be available on any computer with a web browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer and an Internet connection. Access to the promotion manager may be controlled by ICN through managed user ID and passwords.

Consumers may opt into Internet based promotions or mobile device promotions by identifying themselves and purchasing the qualified products in which the consumer might not have a physical card to present. During the checkout process the consumer may identify himself or herself uniquely by entering their unique ID entered when he she opts into the promotion on the retailer manufacturer or media company web site. The unique ID may be included in the transaction information along with the UPCs or products purchased and transmitted in real time to the ICN server. Or the consumer may opt into the promotion anonymously. When the consumer opts in he or she may use their phone or other number as the account number which the coupon s would be assigned to. For example he or she may provide his or her phone number to the cashier or type it in on the keypad during checkout or the consumer s mobile device or cell phone may have an image containing the consumer s cell phone number which may be scanned by the cashier. He or she may also opt in using the particular retailers frequent shopper card number the coupon s would be tied to the presence of that card number or phone number in the POS transaction.

Coupons may have trigger UPCs and target UPCs that are the same. That is the UPCs which trigger the coupon are also the same UPCs which the coupon is applied to. For example buy two of product C save 1.00. In more complex coupons and promotions the trigger and target UPCs may be different. For example buy product C and save 1.00 on product D.

The retail POS controller the POS terminal and the ICN server may each include a processor as discussed previously and may have one or more associated memories as well as interfaces for communication with other devices.

In an embodiment if the ICN promotion redemption real time application or the ICN database server is experiencing down time the ICN POS bridge software installed on the retailer s POS controller may automatically fail to a backup ICN promotion redemption real time application and a mirror database maintained by the ICN.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the invention the ICN can be used to deliver coupons and promotions to a consumer who has opted into a coupon or promotion by visiting the retailer manufacturer or media company web site. In this embodiment of the invention the retailer manufacturer or media company can transmit in real time or batch the consumer opt in information to the ICN database. The consumer opt in information may include but is not limited to a customer identification number which may be but is not limited to the consumer s phone number or frequency shopper identification number the coupons incentives or promotions the consumer opted into and the details of the coupon promotion or incentive. The coupons incentives or promotions may be retrieved by the ICN promotion manager web application and sent over a network or directly communicated to CPG or CPG media partner which may then provide the coupons incentives or promotions as the in store promotion display or advertisement. Opt in permits the consumer to participate in promotions without the requirement of printing the coupon at home and bringing it into the store to redeem.

An embodiment where a consumer may opt in to retrieve a coupon is shown in . Here a media manufacturer or retailer web site or other party may display one or more selectable coupons for downloading or other retrieval such as fax to a consumer at a terminal. The media manufacturer retailer or other party may be provide promotion or coupon details to the ICN either by manually entering the information into the web based ICN promotion manager application or by transmitting the information via a web service or batch mode to the ICN promotion manager application including coupon codes expiration dates store location and trigger and target UPCs. When the consumer visits the media manufacturer or retailer web site and presents his or her identification coupons with control numbers selected by the consumer may be printed out or downloaded to the ICN promotion manager and the ICN database . When the consumer visits the retailer s store and has been provided with knowledge as to available coupons upon checking out a transaction at a point of sale terminal or other terminal such as when shopping from home the point of sale terminal or other terminal may provide transactional information such as UPCs or other product information through the ICN POS bridge software installed on the retailer POS terminal to the ICN POS bridge software installed on the retailer s POS controller . At this point the ICN POS bridge software installed on the retailer s store controller may format a promotion request message and send the promotion request message in real time from the retailer s headquarters to the ICN promotion redemption real time service via a network such as a retailer s wide area network which is running as a real time service on the ICN server . The ICN promotion redemption service may compare the UPCs contained in the promotion request message to all active promotions defined by the manufacturer or its representative on the ICN database . For an active promotion where the UPCs contained within the promotion request message satisfy the requirements of that promotion the ICN promotion redemption service may format a promotion request response message which may include portions of the manufacturer coupon code as shown in plus the target UPC number of the product the manufacturer coupon may be applied to. The promotion request response message may then be sent back to the ICN POS bridge software installed on the retailer s store controller via the retailer s wide area network or other network and the retailer s headquarters . The ICN POS bridge software installed on the retailer s store controller may be located at one or more or each of the retailer s stores and may then transmit the message to the ICN POS bridge software installed on the retailer s POS terminal . The retailer s POS terminal may attempt to redeem the manufacturer coupon against the target UPC contained in the promotion request message. Upon completion of the checkout transaction the ICN POS bridge software may generate a redemption confirmation message which may contain information regarding the success for the coupon redemption process. The redemption confirmation message may be transmitted to the ICN POS bridge software installed on the retailer s store controller which can transmit the redemption confirmation message to the ICN promotion real time redemption service running on the ICN server completing a communication loop. In an embodiment access to the ICN database is provided only through the ICN server .

The details of the coupon promotion or incentive may include NSC Number Manufacturer Number Family Code Value Code Application Identifier Product NSC MOC Code Expiration Date Application Identifier Household Number Trigger UPCs Target UPCs and participating store information may be stored in the ICN Database and used to validate the purchases in real time by the ICN Network Server . Portions of the Manufacturer coupon promotion or incentive may be sent down by the ICN promotion redemption service to the ICN POS bridge software installed on the retailer s POS controller and passed to the ICN POS bridge software installed on the POS terminal and then delivered to the active checkout transaction . An ICN promotion manager may set up coupons and or promotions over a network at a media manufacturer or retailer web site using the ICN database .

In accordance with another aspect of the invention coupons or incentives may be delivered to the consumer based on or entirely on the presence of specific UPCs or products contained in the consumer s transaction at the POS during checkout. An example of this embodiment is a media company advertising a savings incentive in store on the web or via a mobile device which would only require the consumer to purchase the required UPCs or products to activate and receive the coupon or savings.

The POS data bridge software may be a configurable software suite that is physically installed on the POS environment controller and or terminals etc . The ICN Data Bridge may control various POS behavior based on information sent and received to and from the ICN server s . The POS data bridge software in an embodiment may have two distinct parts one installed on the POS controller in a store and the other installed on each POS terminal in a store. Versions of the POS data bridge software may be adapted as needed or desired for each unique POS vendor e.g. retailer . In a specific example a POS data bridge software may be provided for IBM 4690 POS systems in a grocery retail setting or other POS solutions for retail supply chain and or distribution operations of enterprises. This may include but is not limited to 

The ICN Application Programming Interface API may be a piece of ICN code built into the data bridge which controls 1 the encoding decoding of ICN messages in either XML or ICN s binary format. The XML message encoding protocol capability enables 3rd party integrators leveraging devices that do not send as many messages as a POS does and greater ease of integration. The binary message encoding protocol is compact designed for speed and lower bandwidth requirements which lends well to retailers with many stores that each have many lanes.

The communications between the retailer s POS controller and the retailer s headquarters may be any transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP communication network. For example the TCP IP communication network may be the retailer s wide area network . Other examples of TCP IP communication networks that may be used include digital subscriber line DSL T1 integrated services digital network ISDN multiprotocol label switching MPLS etc. The retailer s headquarters itself may be a centralized point within the retailer s wide area network to which the ICN bridges via ICN bridge software for all network connectivity. It may be the ICN s entry point into the retailer s network e.g. WAN . The retailer s headquarters may be the data center e.g. single node that facilitates communications with the ICN server or may be a multi node such as for major tier retailers widely distributed geographically. The communications network between the POS controller and retailer s headquarters may also be used between the POS controller and retailer s headquarters . The retailer s headquarters may be the same kind of retailer s headquarters as retailer s headquarters .

In another embodiment shows that the ICN server communicates with the retailer headquarters of a retailer s WAN . Within the retailer s WAN the retailer POS controller communicates with the retailer headquarters via the ICN POS bridge software installed on the POS controller . The POS terminal may communicate with the retailer POS controller via the ICN POS bridge software installed on the POS terminal. Operations of analogous system components are otherwise similar to those disclosed in . The local store network comprises the interconnections between POS controller and POS terminal which permit communications between the POS controller ICN POS bridge software and the POS terminal ICN POS bridge software and any other communications between the POS controller and the POS terminal . These interconnections may be cable radio frequency optical and or the like. The ICN POS bridge software may communicate also with the Promotion Redemption Service of the ICN server. The local store network may also be referred to as the store loop and may comprise the cabling within a single retail store that connects all the POS terminals to the POS controller of the store. The in store promotion display or advertisement may be physical signage displays or end caps without an electronic hardware or may be an electronic display that may receive communications from a CPG or CPG media partner.

In an example of an embodiment of communications between a POS terminal and the ICN server a promotion request message may be sent by the POS terminal to the ICN server and a promotion response message may be sent in reply by the ICN server to the POS terminal. The POS terminal and the POS controller may communicate through the retailer s WAN through their respective data bridge software in a sequential flow of information where the POS terminal does not communicate directly with the retailer headquarters. In this example of an embodiment the exchange of messages may follow the following routing. In transmitting the POS terminal may send the promotion request message to the POS controller through the local store network the local store network may correspond to the retailer s WAN and the POS controller may send the promotion request message to the retailer headquarter or hub or switch via the retailer s WAN to the ICN promotion redemption real time service PRS of the ICN server whereupon the ICN PRS may access the ICN database via the ICN network e.g. internal ICN network . In reply the ICN PRS having accessed the ICN database through the ICN PRS may send the promotion response message to the retailer headquarters via the retailer s WAN the retailer headquarters may send the promotion response message to the POS controller via the retailer s WAN in this and similar embodiments neither the POS controller nor the POS terminal communicates directly with the ICN server the POS controller may receive the promotion response message via the retailer s WAN and may send the promotion response message via the local store network to the POS terminal.

An embodiment of an ICN system of the invention is shown in . An ICN promotion manager web application ASP.NET may access an ICN database such as an SQL server. An example of such a manager web application is a promotion manager. Point of sale terminals or similar devices may during validation and redemption access an enterprise s computer system through a retailer controller . In each point of sale terminal or in a memory accessed by the retailer controller may be installed an ICN point of sale data bridge software that may be installed on the retailer s system which enables communications between the ICN server and the retailer s point of sale system. The enterprise s computer system may use the ICN redemption service e.g. through a Windows service C .NET to access the ICN database .

Various embodiments are contemplated by the invention. In one embodiment a single ICN server may serve one or more retailers different business entities . The number of retailers assigned to a single ICN server may depend on the size and number of divisions of the retailer. In another embodiment multiple ICN servers e.g. virtual servers may be hosted on the same single ICN server such as be leveraging technology such as VMW are or logical partitions. In other embodiments a single ICN server may be dedicated to a retailer. Other embodiments are contemplated by the invention.

In embodiments may include various underlying retailer WAN configurations and T1 network line e.g. VPN tunnel T1 frame ISDN DSL Fiber . The retailer POS terminal may have its own addressable IP and not leverage a POS controller such that the POS terminal can communicate directly with the retailer s HQ. The retailer headquarters HQ may be a central network connectivity point such as a hub or gateway of the retailer which interfaces with the ICN server. At least one of geographical telephony communications company capabilities bandwidth requirements and preference may factor into the selection of network connectivity between the ICN server and the retailer. The configuration and type of the ICN server may vary in accordance with the size of the retailer and the compatibility and performance of available technology.

With embodiments of the invention coupons may be provided for multiple promotions for example dental floss may be discounted with the purchase of toothpaste and a toothbrush. Multi tiered offers involving price are also contemplated for example if brand X product is 2 a retailer card holder may receive the brand X product for 1.50 and if the customer is in the top 20 of the retailer s customer base may receive the brand X product for 1 among other types of offers. In an example a CPG company may partner with a retailer or a non competitive CPG company to offer a discount when the consumer buys both products of both. For example a consumer may buy Brand C cereal and obtain a pound of Brand D bananas at no extra charge or may buy a jar of Brand P peanut butter and receive a 1 discount on Brand J jelly.

Embodiments of the invention enable third party offer providers to communicate through one entry to point of sale and identify duplicate offers e.g. promotion collisions . The embodiments may be practiced partly but not entirely through or entirely through rules based approvals.

Embodiments of the invention can offer detailed real time redemption data that can be available 24 hours per day 7 days per week via the secure ICN promotion manager application and summary redemption data that can allow a manufacturer media company or retailer to track promotion performance and budget in real time. An advantage of the embodiments of the invention is that ICN technology may not require any coupon or promotion definition data be sent ahead of time to the retailer because the ICN server in conjunction with the ICN database can maintain and update the coupon offerings of client retailers manufacturers and media companies.

Embodiments of the invention having automated clearing house processing by an originating financial institution are illustrated in . At least one embodiment illustrated in each of may represent a separate system from the ICN coupon and or incentive processing system. At least one other embodiment in each of may integrated with the ICN coupon and or incentive processing system. In an embodiment the ICN billing database may feed the ACH process with the redemption information to create the ACH financial debit or credit in which case the ACH system is subordinate to the ICN system.

In embodiments of the invention an ICN automatic clearing house ACH processing system may be used with the Intelligent Clearing Network. An example of an ACH processing system or subsystem is shown in . The automatic clearing house system may provide an automated interface between ICN s internal billing system and the ACH network provided through the Originating Financial Institution . The ICN ACH processing system may create ACH files to send to the Originating Financial Institution based partly on debit credit summary information from each ICN retailer database and partly on account routing information stored on a secure file transfer protocol FTP server . The ICN ACH processing system may also take care of transmitting the resulting ACH files to the Originating Financial Institution via transport layer security TLS FTP.

In at least one embodiment the Promotion Manager may be the input mechanism for setting up any type of promotion the ICN technology may then clear the promoted items electronically and capture the redemption information and the ACH sub system or financial settlement system or sub system may receive the captured redemption information as input and based on the captured redemption information electronically settle the financial obligations of participating parties e.g. retailer manufacturer etc. . In at least one of the embodiments the invention may be seen as providing a full circle of electronic incentive clearing through financial settlement.

The first eight ACH processing system capabilities listed above may be provided by a software program or possibly several programs such as a C program. The last ACH processing system capability listed above may be provided by scheduling the software program s to run periodically using a scheduler program such as the Windows Task Scheduler. In this example the C program s may accumulate unprocessed debits credit information for inclusion in the ACH output file by connecting to a centralized billing database residing on the secure FTP server . The debit credit information in this database may originate from data stored in each ICN retailer database in a table called PROMOTIONAL BILLING. The retailer specific PROMOTIONAL BILLING tables may be populated by stored procedures that reside within each retailer database. The stored procedures may be responsible for summarizing detailed transaction data into debit credit entries and for enforcing applicable business logic. The individual retailer databases may then periodically synchronize their billing information into the centralized billing database by means of SQL Server database replication.

The ACH processing system may supplement the debit credit data it reads from the central billing database with account and routing information. The account and routing information may be required to reside on the secure FTP server and not be stored within the individual retailer databases. Since the central billing database may reside on the secure FTP server sensitive account and routing information may be stored in the same database for convenience.

In addition to account and routing information non sensitive metadata may also be stored in the central billing database for example the exact ICN company name and transaction descriptions as they are to appear on customer bank statements . The ACH processing system may read whatever additional metadata it needs to complete the ACH file from the central billing database.

The following is a partial list of the type of information that may be needed when producing an ACH output file items marked with a are mostly unchanging in contents or value i.e. they are static values 

The C program may create an ACH output file based on the debit credit information that has been accumulated as a result of the selected program options. In an embodiment only a single output file may be created per processing run however the C program may be extended if necessary to support creation of multiple ACH output files in a single run for example if the debits credits need to be logically separated into separate transmissions for business reasons or if there happens to be a maximum size for each ACH transmission and the current debit credit load would result in an output file that exceeds this limitation or if the daily debit credit volume limit is exceeded . The ACH output file may be written to a specified directory and named using a specified naming convention e.g. as per instructions from the Originating Financial Institution .

The ACH file format record layout may be adapted for the Originating Financial Institution. For example the ACH file format record layout may comprise a form and or functionality from one or more of the following 

Once the ACH output file s have been created the ACH processing system may transmit the resulting file s to the Originating Financial Institution via TLS FTP. The ACH processing system may utilize the free command line utility ftp client wput for initiating a secure upload of each file over TLS FTP to a remote ftp server . The C program may initiate calls to wput for each file it creates.

The ACH processing system may need to check periodically for return files that are created by Originating Financial Institution and stored in the Outbound folder on Originating Financial Institution s FTP server . These files may contain information that may be of importance to ICN.

For example Originating Financial Institution may create Notification of Change NOC files on a daily basis. These files may contain information like indications of debits credits that didn t process correctly and notifications of changes in account routing information. The NOC files may follow the same file format as the ACH output files. The ACH processing system may need to periodically connect to the Originating Financial Institution FTP server via TLS FTP look for NOC files pull back any files that are detected and take appropriate action e.g. transmittal of an e mail alert to a designated ICN officer if at least some of the information in the NOC file were to require a manual intervention of some sort .

The ACH processing system may have a command line utility analogous to wput e.g. wget for initiating a secure download of available files over FTP TLS.

The C program can be initiated manually from the command line by typing in the program name and providing the appropriate arguments. By default the program may process all pending debits credits. The C program may allow a user to specify command line arguments indicating which debits credits need to be processed for example in limiting processing based on a particular promotion retailer media partner or individual debit credit that has failed and needs to be re sent. The C program may create log entries for every run containing summary counts and debug information for troubleshooting purposes. The log file may have a specified naming convention and may be written to a specified directory on the FTP server. The C program s may be scheduled to run periodically using the Windows Task Scheduler.

A billing system as illustrated in may generate auditable incremental credit debit based upon the information stored in the ICN retailer database for a given promotion and the detail present in the Redemptions structure.

For a promotion at least one promotion or every promotion the following entities as shown in may exist for billing purposes and tie directly back to a promotion definition in the Promotion Manager 

1. Promotion Sponsor who gets debited for the promotion s liability The promotion sponsor is the party that has agreed to pay for the promotion activity. The promotion sponsor may be a retailer a manufacturer or another entity.

3. ICN a transaction fee clearing fee and or processing fee may be paid to ICN from a portion of money debited from the promotion sponsor 

Note that for each of the 3 entities above there may be billing rates that dictate by company ICN deals with for credits and debits. The per redemption billing rate for debits and for credits can be separate and different for each company.

An example of a process for debiting and crediting between a retailer the ICN and the promotion sponsor.

Thus for any promotion run by a Promotion Sponsor assuming there are 100 redemptions of a 50 cent coupon and assuming the Promotion Sponsor has a debit rate of 10 cents per redemption and the retailer has a credit rate of 4 cents per redemption the following example is meant to illustrate aspects of the processing 

Modifications to the above billing processing example may be made in part or all of the following manner 

Other variations may be made to the billing processing such as by incorporating one or more of the following features 

In view of the foregoing it can be seen that as alternative to a coupon Applicant has provided for a coupon card in embodiments. In other embodiments a coupon card is not employed. Thus many options and advantages are offered by Applicant s embodiments. For example although a coupon card is convenient there may be times where a coupon card is not preferred for conducting consumer transactions with e.g. a retailer or wholesaler.

Also embodiments of Applicant s invention can provide a coupon and or incentive redeemer with information as to the entire purchases made by a consumer or in a transaction. Embodiments can provide the manufacturer and retailer with information in a complete and real time manner.

Accordingly embodiments of the invention can provide for real time coupon and or incentive validation in which data about entire transactions are provided in real time to an Intelligent Clearing Network that can avoid multiple redemptions of the same coupons and or incentives and can avoid redeeming a coupon and or incentive against an unintended product. The current business model also can allow for activation of coupons and or incentives based on or only on the contents of the consumer s basket or allowing the consumer to opt into promotions via the internet. This can allow for consumers to participate in in store media promotions based on or only on the occurrence of the promoted products being present in the consumer s transaction at the POS. This also can allow consumers to opt into internet based promotions by identifying themselves and purchasing the qualified products.

Not only can embodiments of the invention allow for the redemption of coupons found in Free Standing Inserts but also can permit the validation and redemption of coupons and or incentives found via in store promotions or on the internet. During the checkout process at a point of sale terminal a series of events may occur sale data is transmitted via a wide area network from a retailer site to an enterprise e.g. retailer headquarters the enterprise forwards data via high speed connection to the Intelligent Clearing Network servers Intelligent Clearing Network application software determines that promotion parameters are met and if the promotion parameters are met the Intelligent Clearing Network returns information to the enterprise and point of sale terminal that the consumer has satisfied the promotion parameters and the coupon and or incentive offer has been redeemed. It is possible that the entire coupon and or incentive redemption process may be completed in one second or less.

In one or more embodiments of the invention a system for redeeming coupons comprises a network through which a Point of Sale POS terminal communicates through a POS controller with an Intelligent Clearing Network ICN server. One or both of the POS terminal and POS controller are installed with POS bridge software. The ICN server is configured to run a real time software application while in communication with the POS terminal wherein the POS terminal transmits coupon transaction information including universal product codes to the ICN server via the network. Coupons and incentives can be redeemed when the consumer purchases the products promoted by a media company manufacturer or retailer on the internet or in store or other promotional materials such as newspapers magazines and direct mail. The system may use trigger universal product codes to validate coupons and or incentives and target universal product codes to properly redeem coupons.

It is believed that embodiments of the invention and the attendant advantages will be understood by the forgoing description. It is also believed that it will be apparent that various changes may be made in the form construction and arrangement of the components thereof without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention or without sacrificing all of its material advantages. The form herein before described being merely an explanatory embodiment thereof. It is the intention of the following claims to encompass and include such changes.

