---

title: System and method for exporting data to web-based applications
abstract: A system and method is provided for exporting data from a client-server, collaborative application to a relational database and/or web based application. The method is implemented on a computing infrastructure and includes extracting unstructured rich text information hosted in a client-server, collaborative application. The method further includes converting the unstructured rich text information to XML files using a series of XML APIs. The method further includes transforming the XML files (data) to XHTML using reusable stylesheets unique to each type of unstructured rich text information, and utilizing the xHMTL in a web based application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09552402&OS=09552402&RS=09552402
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09552402
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081219
---
The invention generally relates to a method and system of exporting data and in particular to a system and method of exporting data from a client server collaborative application to a relational database and or web based application.

Web 2.0 describes changing trends in the use of World Wide Web technology. For example Web 2.0 aims to enhance creativity secure information sharing collaboration and functionality of the World Wide Web. As such Web 2.0 concepts have led to the development of web based communities including social networking sites video sharing sites wikis blogs etc.

The extra functionality provided by Web 2.0 depends on the ability of users to work with the data stored on servers. This can come about through forms in an HTML page through a scripting language. The Web 2.0 also permits syndication of site content which involves standardized protocols that permit end users to make use of a site s data in another context. Protocols that permit syndication include Extensible Markup Language XML based formats such as for example RSS Really Simple Syndication Resource Description Framework RDF and Atom. The XML is a general purpose specification for creating custom markup languages. The primary purpose of XML is to help information systems share structured data particularly via the World Wide Web and Web 2.0 applications. By adding semantic constraints application languages can be implemented in XML e.g. XHTML amongst thousands of others.

The Web 2.0 supports many types of web services A web service is a software system designed to support interoperable machine to machine interaction over a network. The web service definition encompasses many different systems but in common usage the term refers to clients and servers that communicate over the HTTP protocol used on the World Wide Web. One such service uses XML messages that follow the SOAP standard.

Currently tools can export data from one application to another application which may be helpful for exporting content to Web 2.0 applications. For example tools are known to extract HTML content stored in relational databases to Web 2.0 applications. However these tools lack an intuitive way to map specialized content stored in rich text fields like file attachment metadata collapsible sections tabbed tables and hotspot links used by for example Lotus Domino program Lotus and Domino are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation in the United States and throughout the world . Lotus Domino program is a server product that provides enterprise grade e mail collaboration capabilities and custom application platform. Lotus Domino program can be used as an application server for Lotus Notes Lotus Notes is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation applications and or as a web server.

Accordingly there exists a need in the art to overcome the deficiencies and limitations described hereinabove.

In a first aspect of the invention a method implemented on a computing infrastructure comprises extracting unstructured rich text information hosted in a client server collaborative application. The method further comprises converting the unstructured rich text information to XML files using a series of XML APIs. The method further comprises transforming the XML files data to XHTML using reusable stylesheets unique to each type of unstructured rich text information and utilizing the XHTML in a web based application.

In another aspect of the invention a computer program product comprises a computer usable storage medium having readable program code tangibly embodied in the storage medium. The computer program product is operable to extract data from unstructured information using a series of XML APIs convert the extracted data into XML files and transform the XML files into XHTML documents using unique stylesheets for each type of unstructured information.

In another aspect of the invention a system for web applications comprises first program instructions to extract XML files from unstructured rich text information second program instructions to transform the XML files to XHTML files using reusable tailored stylesheets associated with specific extracted XML files and third program instructions to save the XHTML files in a relational database and or for use in a web application. A computer readable media stores the first second and third program instructions. A central processing unit executes the first second third and fourth program instructions.

The invention generally relates to a method and system of exporting data and in particular to a system and method of exporting data from a client server collaborative application to a relational database and or web based application. In implementation the present invention solves many practical issues that otherwise have curtailed the realization of exporting rich content from Domino or Lotus Notes. More specifically the present invention provides a mechanism to extract content hosted in Lotus Notes databases to web browsers via a Java based API. For example the present invention is configured to exported data as XML files data and place such data on either File Systems or relational database management systems RDMS with XML capabilities such as for example DB2 version 9 . DB2 is part of a family of RDMS of International Business Machine.

Advantageously the invention provides a tool that is capable of converting various format features of a Lotus Domino database to another database format. In particular the tool is configured to convert Domino Rich Text Elements like tabs twisties tables collapsible sections as well as other Rich Text Elements to a format exportable to a relational database. To make the conversion a stylesheet is supplied to a known transformation engine such as for example an XML transformation engine using Domino XML APIs. The translation engine implements the stylesheet which in turn provides the conversion translation for exportation into a relational database. The relational database can be for example a DB2 relational database maintained supported and supplied by International Business Machine Corporation.

The exported data from Lotus Notes database can now be data accessible to J2EE applications such as for example Web 2.0 applications. In embodiments the Domino data is exposed to Web 2.0 rest based web services and J2EE applications. In this way it is now possible for users gain easy access to Domino store data by using the mechanism presented in the present invention while preserving much of the content format and metadata.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in any tangible medium of expression having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any combination of one or more computer usable or computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following 

In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can store the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using a network.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network. This may include for example a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

In implementation the content of unstructured information such as for example buttons figures tabs collapsible sections etc. is extracted exported from a Domino database through series of Domino XML exports using the XML API 50. In this way the content of the unstructured information can be converted to XML files data . The XML files data and any file attachments are saved in file systems or a relational database such as for example the storage system B of . Thus in embodiments data is exported as XML files data and placed on either file systems for relational database system with XML capabilities like DB2. File attachments are exported as binary objects and stored in BLOBS binary large objects in the relational database whereas the XML data is stored in CLOBS common large objects . In embodiments a unique ID may be provided for each document and file attachment making it possible to match the appropriate XML file with the corresponding file attachment.

In embodiments the transformation engine transforms the XML files data into XHTML files using stylesheets unique to each type of unstructured information. That is the Lotus Notes document formatting and metadata is preserved using tailored stylesheets and the Domino XMI API. The Lotus notes document content is stored in XHTML making very accessible for downstream use by J2EE applications and Web 2.0 REST web services.

The stylesheets are designed to be unique for each type of unstructured information such as for example collapsible sections tabbed tables etc. These stylesheets are designed to be reusable in order to provide an intuitive way to map specialized content stored in rich text fields like file attachment metadata collapsible sections tabbed tables and hotspot links used by for example Lotus Domino .

In embodiments the stylesheets are uniquely defined and can be stored in a database such as for example a storage system depicted in . The unique identification for each stylesheet allows easy access and retrieval by the transformation engine in order to convert the raw data XML unstructured information . The stylesheet can be identified in many different ways such as for example 

By way of non limiting illustrative example a contemplated stylesheet for a tabbed table may include the following exemplary code 

By way of non limiting illustrative example a contemplated stylesheet for collapsible section may include the following exemplary code 

The transformation engine can be for example a WebSphere Message Broker XSL transformation engine. WebSphere is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation in the United States and throughout the world. The XSL transformation XSLT is a standards based technology that transforms XML documents into XHMTL documents. Transformation rules for the input XML documents are described in Extensible Stylesheet Language XSL which is itself in XML. The XSL transformation rules reside in the stylesheet.

In embodiments the converted XHTML is saved in a relational database with the unique file attachments. In embodiments the XHTML is saved as CLOBS common large objects and the file attachments are saved as BLOBS binary large objects . These CLOBS and BLOBS can then be used for J2EE and Web 2.0 applications.

The computing device also includes a processor memory A an I O interface and a bus . The memory A can include local memory employed during actual execution of program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. In addition the computing device includes random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and a CPU. The computing device also includes an I O device . The I O device can be for example any device that enables an individual to interact with the computing device or any device that enables the computing device to communicate with one or more other computing devices using any type of communications link. The external I O device resource may be for example a display of a computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA .

In general the processor executes computer program code which is stored in the memory A and or storage system B. While executing the computer program code the processor can read and or write data to from memory A storage system B and or I O interface . The program code executes the processes of the invention. The bus provides a communications link between each of the components in the computing device .

The computing device can comprise any general purpose computing article of manufacture capable of executing computer program code installed thereon e.g. a personal computer server etc. . However it is understood that the computing device is only representative of various possible equivalent computing devices that may perform the processes described herein. To this extent in embodiments the functionality provided by the computing device can be implemented by a computing article of manufacture that includes any combination of general and or specific purpose hardware and or computer program code. In each embodiment the program code and hardware can be created using standard programming and engineering techniques respectively.

Similarly the server is only illustrative of various types of computer infrastructures for implementing the invention. For example in embodiments the server comprises two or more computing devices e.g. a server cluster that communicate over any type of communications link such as a network a shared memory or the like to perform the process described herein. Further while performing the processes described herein one or more computing devices on the server can communicate with one or more other computing devices external to the server using any type of communications link. The communications link can comprise any combination of wired and or wireless links any combination of one or more types of networks e.g. the Internet a wide area network a local area network a virtual private network etc. and or utilize any combination of transmission techniques and protocols.

In embodiments the invention provides a business method that performs the steps of the invention on a subscription advertising and or fee basis. That is a service provider such as a Solution Integrator could offer to perform the processes described herein. In this case the service provider can create maintain deploy support etc. the computer infrastructure that performs the process steps of the invention for one or more customers. In return the service provider can receive payment from the customer s under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service provider can receive payment.

In particular shows a web browser . The web browser provides an http request to a load balancer . The load balancer is an IP sprayer which is configured to handle multiple requests. The http request is passed from the load balancer to a net cache proxy . The net cache proxy is a machine used to cache frequent requested files. The net cache proxy can provide information related to the request back to the web browser . The net cache proxy also passes the request to the load balance in Zone . This request can then be passed to a portal server e.g. WebSphere Portal Server . In embodiments the WebSphere Portal Server is a cluster of two nodes for example.

The portal server communicates with a DB2 production server which is a server running DB2 production. Information is passed between the DB2 production server and the staging DB2 Server . The DB2 staging server is a server running DB2 The portal server also communicates with an LDAP . The LDAP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol is an application protocol for querying and modifying directly services running over TCP IP. More specifically the LDAP is an Internet protocol that email and other programs use to look up information from the server . In embodiments the LDAP represents the directory used for authentication and authorization of users of the present invention e.g. IBM Directly Server . The DB2 server also communicates with a JAVA Server . The JAVA server is a server running JAVA programs which passes XHTML from the DB2 server and Notes Database .

Additionally the invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. Software includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc. Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. The software and or computer program product can be implemented in the environment of . For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can store the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical or semiconductor system or apparatus or device . Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. While the invention has been described in terms of embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modifications and in the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

