---

title: Process for producing aqueous chlorine dioxide for surface disinfection and decontamination
abstract: The present invention provides for a method of generating an aqueous solution comprising chlorine dioxide using a chlorine-containing chemical oxidant; an effector having the capacity to reduce said chlorine-containing chemical oxidant; a chemical reductant; and water, and operating in either batch or continuous-flow modes. In batch mode, the aqueous chlorine dioxide solution can be generated in a sprayer device, a bottle, or a bucket to disinfect objects by spraying and wiping, by pouring, or by immersion, respectively. In continuous-flow mode, the aqueous chlorine dioxide solution can be generated in flow tubes or continuous-stirred tank reactors, then placed inside a suitable sprayer device, bottle, or bucket.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08337717&OS=08337717&RS=08337717
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08337717
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080108
---
This is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 105 211 filed Apr. 13 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 625 533 which is a continuation in part of patent application Ser. No. 10 988 442 filed Nov. 10 2004 in the names of Christopher J. Doona et al. which applications are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

The present invention relates to lightweight portable self contained devices to disinfect microbiologically contaminated surfaces and or equipment and whose operation does not require external power sources. The invention more specifically relates to such devices that use chemical methods to generate aqueous solutions of disinfectant which allow immersion of contaminated objects or are dispensed directly or sprayed as a fine mist onto contaminated surfaces for purposes of reducing or eliminating inhabitant microorganisms.

There is a need for on site decontamination of surfaces such as the surfaces of military field feeding equipment food contact surfaces food processing or handling equipment and the surfaces of such foods as melons strawberries apples tomatoes and other sliced or whole fruits and vegetables. This need cannot be met by the application of mild disinfectant solutions in which the disinfecting agent is not powerful enough for example hydrogen peroxide or detergent the concentration of the disinfectant is too dilute to rapidly kill the target microorganisms in sufficient numbers or the concentration of the lethal chemical agent is too short lived due to chemical decomposition. In contradistinction the power free generation of chlorine dioxide solution meets the requirements for safe rapid and easily deployed decontamination system without altering the quality of foodstuffs while minimizing potential hazards to the user the environment or consumer of such food preparation surfaces and equipment and food.

Powerful disinfectant agents such as chlorine ozone or chloramines utilize individualized and often heavy equipment that is electrically powered and require special handling. Ozone rapidly degrades chemically and must be continuously generated through specialized electrically powered equipment to maintain an effective lethal dose. During and after the microbial decontamination process these chemical agents produce harmful by products in the workplace atmosphere that potentially can be harmful to human health or the environment. Chlorine is an effective disinfectant of wastewaters but chlorine is also known to react with organic matter to produce harmful chlorinated by products or carcinogenic compounds such as carbon tetrachloride. Alcoholic solutions require immersion or scrubbing which may not reach inaccessible surfaces such as the calyx region of apples or inside the webbing on the surface of cantaloupe rinds or may be undesirable when contacting food preparation surfaces foodstuffs or other consumables.

The basis of the present invention is a novel method that has been developed for the controlled generation of aqueous solutions of chlorine dioxide without requiring the use of power or where sparks flames and fire are hazardous unattainable or otherwise undesirable. This method is likewise suitable for a lightweight portable assembly for disinfection of microbiologically contaminated equipment surfaces and actual foodstuffs and involves small amounts of safe dry chemical reagents. The chemical combination that has been developed for this purpose is convenient to carry and mixes readily with water to controllably generate biocidal chlorine dioxide solutions U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 988 442 Publication Number US2006 0097222 A1 Chemical Combination for Chemical Generation of Disinfectant and Heat Doona et al. .

This novel chemical combination has been used inside closed containers to generate humid gaseous chlorine dioxide environments U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 105 211 Publication Number US2006 0099121 A1 Portable Chemical Sterilizer Doona et al. . One particular purpose of this technology is the power free sterilization of medical equipment and surgical instruments in austere environments as may be encountered by military far forward surgical teams disaster relief workers emergency first responders or by humanitarian aid workers in third world countries. This technology has also been used under less stringent conditions to eliminate bacterial pathogens such as and from the surfaces of tomatoes without discoloring the fruit or to inactivate the polyphenoloxidase enzyme in sliced apples thereby preventing enzymatic browning of the cut apple tissue with exposure to ambient oxygen. The container configuration has been generally aimed at having sufficient size and capacity to hold a standard tray of surgical instruments but the container configuration can be varied without changing the fundamental principles of operation or procedure for achieving target microbial kills.

Large scale food handling equipment and food contact surfaces such as counter tops and cutting boards in need of disinfection cannot always be conveniently removed separated or inserted into reasonably sized containers for exposure to a chlorine dioxide environment. However chlorine dioxide can be used to sanitize surfaces that come into contact with food and thereby prevent the spread of food borne illnesses through direct contact or through secondary contamination by developing an alternative method of dispensing delivering or contacting the chlorine dioxide to these contaminated surfaces.

Therefore an object of this invention is to controllably generate aqueous solutions of biocidal chlorine dioxide using the chemical combination described above and a number of variants thereof in a manner different from that used to create humid gaseous chlorine dioxide environments in closed containers for purposes of medical sterilization or produce decontamination also described above. The chemical combination consists of mixtures of prescribed amounts of sodium chlorite NaClO sodium sulfite NaSO sodium hydrogen ascorbate CHONa and water that react in either batch mode or in continuous flow processes to generate an aqueous solution of chlorine dioxide. The batch mode generation of aqueous chlorine dioxide solution can involve the use of a container comprising a lightweight portable handheld closable plastic bottle rigid plastic or flexible plastic pouch material work equally well and equipped with an adapter to receive a manually operated trigger sprayer commonly found on ordinary household cleansers. After generation the aqueous chlorine dioxide solution can be dispensed directly onto the microbiologically contaminated surfaces from the opened plastic bottle or delivered as a fine mist or aerosol by spraying after closing the bottle with the spray device to achieve the intended surface disinfection or decontamination process. Alternatively the batch mode generation of aqueous chlorine dioxide solution can involve a container comprising an open bucket that either allows for immersion of contaminated objects such as fresh produce into the disinfecting solution or into which can be immersed sponges or mops to transfer the chlorine dioxide to the target area for cleaning and disinfection. Another alternative comprises continuous flow systems comprising tubes or continuous flow stirred tank reactors that are open to a feed of fresh reagents at a controlled rate and that also allow chemical reaction to take place and produce the aqueous chlorine dioxide disinfectant solution that may then be placed into a bucket bottle or sprayer device.

As indicated above to accomplish these objectives one cannot simply mimic the mixing procedures described in patent application Ser. No. 11 105 211. Rather one must determine appropriate variants of the novel chemical combination described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 988 442 select an appropriate sprayer device bottle or bucket and develop a mixing procedure. This disclosure details this novel process apparatus and procedure for accomplishing an aqueous chlorine dioxide solution for effective disinfection of foodborne or infectious microorganisms contaminating surfaces.

Disinfectants such as chlorine ethylene oxide and fluorine containing interhalogens are stable but highly reactive chemicals that must be transported in bulky secure containers to ensure safety. While these chemicals can be transported they are not efficacious in food preparation environments because of their large weight size and inconvenient and ineffective methods of application. Traditional methods of generating chlorine dioxide are too cumbersome too slow or too hazardous to allow disinfection of surfaces and foodstuffs.

For example Svoboda et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 021 585 teaches the spraying of freshly slaughtered meat carcasses with chlorine dioxide solutions for disinfection without bleaching or discoloring the meat surface. However the chlorine dioxide is generated with commercially available equipment . . . which would be unsuitable for a kitchen or dining area location especially those that are transportable for military field feeding for the reasons indicated above.

Electrochemical methods usually raise the oxidation number of chlorine within a chlorine containing compound e.g. oxidizing aqueous chloride solutions often brines Rojas Ser. No. 10 447 572 Publication Number US 2004 0104127. Chemical methods favor the formation of dichlorine gas for this purpose Jeffries III et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 908 188. Alternatively the oxidation number of chlorine in a chlorine containing compound can be lowered. For example reduction of sodium chlorate by hydrogen peroxide glycerol or sucrose has been suggested Khan et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 287 533. These methods require high temperatures and or catalysts and are not suitable for safe rapid generation of chlorine dioxide solutions in a hospital kitchen or other food processing environment.

Because of chlorine dioxide s potential as a workplace health clinic or home disinfectant methods have been developed to circumvent the use of inconvenient and heavy or pressurized cylinder requiring electrochemical equipment or hazardous strong oxidants such as hypochlorous acid. These methods are based on proton transfer to sodium chlorite by acidification. Acidification generated chlorous acid disproportionates producing chloride and chlorate ions and various amounts of chlorine dioxide. The prior art shows that chlorine dioxide so produced can be used for disinfection in food processing plants.

For example Mason et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 731 193 and 4 889 654 disclose an aqueous foam containing chlorine dioxide for this purpose. The patent claims to mask the odor of chlorine dioxide because . . . its strong unpleasant odor when dissolved in water makes it impossible to spray at concentrations necessary to achieve sanitation. Mason et al. do not teach a new method of generating chlorine dioxide. The patent states that . . . generating the chlorine dioxide outside the solution and subsequently dissolving it therein is acceptable. However in the Mason et al. embodiments that generate the chlorine dioxide in the foam solution either a water soluble metal chlorite is acidified preferably with an organic acid such as citric or oxalic acid or the chlorite is oxidized by a strong oxidant such as dichlorine or hypochlorous acid. Foam is generated from a surfactant which may be enhanced with penetrants non aqueous solvents and alkaline cleaners. The odoriferous component in Mason et al. relates to the method of chlorine dioxide generation which can produce odorous dichlorine and hypochlorous acid gases. In contrast the present invention yields a dilute aqueous solution of chlorine dioxide that can be dispensed by pouring or spraying a fine mist directly onto and covering all surfaces for purposes of disinfection. Release of gas is minimized and does not produce a strong or unpleasant odor. The odor though present is not pronounced because of the use of the novel chemical combination Ser. No. 10 988 442 to controllably produce chlorine dioxide in these circumstances without invoking an acidification process.

The decomposition of chlorous acid is slow and difficult to control. The prior art teaches catalysis and compartmentalization of reagents to speed the reaction and gain some control over it. Girard U.S. Pat. No. 6 764 661 uses compartmentalization and wick means for separating reactants and for transporting water to one or more reactants. The chlorine dioxide is then allowed to diffuse into a separate compartment to constitute the disinfecting solution.

Impregnation of inert zeolite crystals furthers compartmentalization and avoids mixing. Klatte U.S. Pat. No. 6 503 419 teaches impregnation of zeolite crystals with metal chlorite. A second separate assemblage of zeolite crystals is impregnated with proton generating species an acid or a hydrolyzing metal salt such as CoCl for example. Activation of the crystals occurs when water is added to the proton releasing zeolite. Fluid flow carries the acidified solution into the metal chlorite zeolite compartment where chlorine dioxide gas is generated.

Hamilton et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 602 466 and 6 607 696 teach a method for the controlled delivery of different gases but take special note of generating and delivering chlorine dioxide gas. These gases cannot be construed as aqueous solutions for reasons mentioned below. Control is exerted by means of successively surrounding one envelope or sachet with another until an entire sequence of such enclosed pouches within pouches has been constructed. This apparatus is claimed to deliver a dose of chlorine dioxide gas to an awaiting volume of water in . . . 5 to 15 minutes. For most food handling and processing purposes this apparatus does not provide controlled production and rapid enough access to a chlorine dioxide solution. The different pouch and envelope surfaces when not ruptured act as barriers to diffusion and the control exerted is to slow down not speed up the process of forming a disinfectant solution. A similar acidification method used for separating reactants from water Thangaraj et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 238 643 suffers from the same drawbacks.

The traditional method to increase the rate of a chemical reaction is through catalysis. Catalysts of the acidification method however are expensive and short lasting Ostgard U.S. Pat. No. 6 399 039 and it is expected that oxidation reduction reaction catalysts are likewise expensive and have a short useful duration.

Therefore it is apparent that there is currently no method available that can controllably generate aqueous chlorine dioxide solutions preferably in a handheld sprayer device to sanitize feeding equipment food contact surfaces and foodstuffs all of which can harbor infectious pathogens due to reasons of poor hygiene contact with contaminated foods or to bio terrorism or agri terrorism. What is needed is a method operating in either batch or continuous flow of generating aqueous disinfectant that is convenient easy to use and effective at low doses against microbes. The chemical combination specified in Ser. No. 10 988 442 can be used with appropriate modifications to generate aqueous chlorine dioxide in a sprayer device in other containers e.g. bottles or buckets or by a continuous flow system. Adjusting the amounts of the dry chemical powders and water specified in Ser. No. 10 988 442 to appropriate levels allows for control of the rate of chlorine dioxide production and optimization of the final concentration of chlorine dioxide in aqueous solution in the sprayer apparatus and a single sprayer device can then be re used multiple times for a number of different applications such as decontaminating food processing or feeding equipment kitchens sinks counter tops bathrooms or latrines showers or fresh produce.

With the above and other objects in view a feature of the present invention is the provision of a novel chemical combination for producing chlorine dioxide a unique manner of combining these chemical reagents to control the rate and final concentration of chlorine dioxide in aqueous solution so produced and a container to contain the reagents during mixing and production of the disinfectant while also serving as a container designed to subsequently dispense the generated disinfectant solution either through pouring or spraying as a fine mist or aerosol or for immersing microbiologically contaminated objects for the purposes of eliminating or reducing the presence of contaminating microorganisms.

The preferred embodiment includes a lightweight portable power free apparatus that is closable with a screw cap or a screw cap spray nozzle fixture which accommodates controlled chemical reactions that generate in situ the potent disinfectant chlorine dioxide a stepwise mixing procedure for creating a dilute aqueous solution and an opening for distributing the disinfectant to contact contaminated surfaces either by direct pouring or by spraying as a fine mist through a detachable spray nozzle fixture.

The preferred embodiment for this apparatus is a standard rigid plastic bottle used in many commercial household cleaning products with a molded plastic screw top opening that is closable using a screw cap fixture equipped with a spray nozzle. The capacity ranges generally from about 400 1000 mL. The bottle s interior volume is capable of accepting the novel chemical combination for producing chlorine dioxide. The production of chlorine dioxide entails adding the appropriate amounts of water and pre weighed dry chemicals free or in water soluble packets such as PVA sachets to the empty plastic bottle producing chlorine dioxide through chemical reaction diluting with the appropriate volume of water to reach a pre determined final concentration of aqueous chlorine dioxide inside the bottle then closing the bottle with a screw cap or screw cap spray nozzle fixture.

In an alternative embodiment the apparatus comprises a plastic bottle made of flexible pouch material with a gusseted bottom that opens upon filling with water to allow the bottle to stand upright and fitted with a screw cap assembly capable of accepting a screw cap or a screw cap spray nozzle fixture. The production of chlorine dioxide entails adding the appropriate amounts of water and pre weighed dry chemicals free or packaged in water soluble membrane materials that dissolve in the water during the initial mixing such as PVA sachets to the empty plastic bottle producing chlorine dioxide through chemical reaction diluting with the appropriate volume of water to reach a pre determined final concentration of aqueous chlorine dioxide inside the bottle then closing the bottle with a screw cap or screw cap spray nozzle fixture.

The rigid plastic bottle and flexible plastic pouch material can also accommodate several alternative methods for combining the dry chemicals without altering the fundamental mechanism of generating the disinfectant solution. The chemical reagents can be pre added to either the rigid plastic or the flexible plastic pouch by impregnating them on the interior surface of the plastic material or attaching them with a water soluble adhesive to the interior surface of the plastic that contacts the water. The flexible pouch material offers an additional method for pre adding and partitioning the chemical reagents into separate compartments that are segregated from the main interior volume by the use of frangible seals. These seals essentially provide sub compartments within the pouch that can keep the chemical reagents dry and segregated until time of use. Upon squeezing the pouch by hand and applying mild pressures these seals rupture and empty the reagents into the body of the pouch for subsequent dissolution and mixing in water to controllably produce chlorine dioxide.

The present invention provides a method of generating an aqueous solution comprising chlorine dioxide comprising the steps of a combining a chlorine containing chemical oxidant having the capacity to react and liberate chlorine dioxide an effector having the capacity to reduce said chlorine containing chemical oxidant and a chemical reductant b adding a pre determined quantity of water to the mixture to dissolve the reactants and initiate the production of chlorine dioxide in a concentrated solution and c adding additional water to dilute the aqueous solution comprising chlorine dioxide to its final working concentration. The general definitions of the chlorine containing oxidant the effector and the chemical reductant are the same as discussed in published U.S. Patent Application 2006 0097222 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 988 442 the disclosure of which is incorporated in its entirety in the present application.

More specifically the effector can be ascorbic acid a salt of hydrogen ascorbate and a salt of ascorbate. Alternatively the effector can be erythorbic acid and its salts and tartaric acid and its salts or a reducing sugar.

The chlorine containing chemical oxidant can be an alkali metal salt of chlorite or an alkali metal salt of chlorate. More specifically the alkali metal is sodium.

Preferably the method of generating an aqueous solution comprising chlorine dioxide uses sodium chlorite as the chlorine containing chemical oxidant sodium sulfite as the chemical reductant and sodium hydrogen ascorbate as the effector. More preferably the sodium chlorite is in the amount of 1.9 9.4 g the sodium sulfite is in the amount of 0.4 6.5 g and the sodium hydrogen ascorbate is in the amount of 0.7 2.5 g. Most preferably the water added to the mixture to initiate the production of chlorine dioxide is in the amount of 7.5 30 mL.

As another embodiment of the present invention the present invention provides for a method of generating an aqueous solution comprising chlorine dioxide comprising the steps of a mixing a chemical reductant having the capacity to reduce a chlorine containing chemical oxidant an effector having the capacity to reduce the chemical oxidant to liberate chlorine dioxide and a predetermined amount of water b adding to the mixture the chlorine containing chemical oxidant having the capacity to liberate chlorine dioxide to initiate the production of an aqueous solution of chlorine dioxide and c adding additional water to dilute the aqueous solution comprising chlorine dioxide to its final working concentration.

As still another embodiment the present invention provides for a method of generating an aqueous solution comprising chlorine dioxide comprising the steps of a combining a chlorine containing chemical oxidant having the capacity to react and liberate chlorine dioxide with an organic acid having the capacity to acidify the chlorine containing chemical oxidant and generate chlorine dioxide b adding a pre determined quantity of water to the mixture to dissolve the reactants and initiate the production of chlorine dioxide as a concentrated solution and c adding additional water to dilute the aqueous solution comprising chlorine dioxide to its final working concentration.

Preferably the aqueous solution comprising chlorine dioxide is produced by any of the above embodiments inside of or placed into a container such as a bucket a bottle or other container having a spray nozzle assembly that is capable of spraying the aqueous solution. Alternatively the aqueous solution comprising chlorine dioxide is produced by a continuous flow process and then placed in a sprayer device equipped with a spray nozzle assembly that is capable of spraying the aqueous solution a bottle for dispensing disinfectant solution by pouring or a bucket allowing immersion of contaminated objects or sponges or mops to transfer the disinfectant to a targeted area.

More specifically the chemical combination used to effect the controlled production of chlorine dioxide in a small volume of water is an ensemble consisting of sodium chlorite NaClO sodium sulfite NaSO and sodium hydrogen ascorbate CHONa proportionally related but generally in reduced quantities to those described in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 105 211 and 10 988 442. After the chlorine dioxide is produced by the chemical reaction described above the solution is diluted with a prescribed volume of water to a pre determined final concentration of aqueous chlorine dioxide. The addition of this second volume of water does not induce and may limit the production of chlorine dioxide although its primary purposes is intended only to modify the final volume of solution and determine the final working concentration of aqueous chlorine dioxide available for disinfecting microbiologically contaminated surfaces.

The present invention is directed toward a lightweight handheld portable apparatus in the form of a convenient handheld plastic bottle equipped with a spray nozzle for carrying out chemical reactions that controllably produce chemical disinfecting agents and dissolving those agents so produced in aqueous solutions. The decontamination of microbiologically contaminated surfaces such as food handling or military field feeding equipment sanitization food contact surfaces in a kitchen environment disinfection actual foodstuffs such as fresh produce effective pasteurization or military clothing equipment vehicles buildings or materiel decontamination is achieved by dispensing the aqueous disinfectant solution onto the contaminated surface either by pouring directly or spraying as a fine mist from a spray fixture inserted in the bottle.

The preferred use of the portable handheld sprayer involves a chemical combination and mixing procedure that produce a dilute aqueous solution of disinfectant that reduces or eliminates contaminating microorganisms on contact surfaces in sufficient time of exposure. Therefore there follows below a detailed description of the chemical combination followed by descriptions of the embodiments of the apparatus in which the chemical combination is activated to produce disinfectant and a description of the procedure and several tests demonstrating effectuation of the principle of microbial decontamination achieved using the spray method.

The preferred embodiment for mixing the chemical reagents to produce chlorine dioxide diluting with water to produce a prescribed final concentration and dispensing by pouring as a solution or spraying as a fine mist or aerosol is a standard rigid plastic bottle with a screw cap spray nozzle assembly. Alternatively a flexible plastic pouch material with a gusseted bottom and a screw cap assembly woven into the top seam works identically to the hard plastic bottle and equally well receives the appropriate chemical combinations and volume of aqueous diluent to prepare the disinfectant solution for decontaminating target surfaces in many cases by simply spraying and wiping. Another alternative container that equally well receives the appropriate chemical combination and water to generate an aqueous chlorine dioxide solution is a bucket that allows for the immersion of contaminated objects such as fruits and vegetables into the disinfectant solution or transfer of the disinfectant solution to target areas using sponges or mops.

The chemical combination in the preferred method for surface decontamination by aqueous chlorine dioxide solution is a mixture of reagents and water that can be varied by proportionately increasing or decreasing the chemical combination given below or by adjusting the relative proportions of the component reagents depending on the intended final concentration of chlorine dioxide to be controllably produced. A representative chemical combination used to achieve sterilization with the Portable Chemical Sterilizer PCS see U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 10 988 442 and 11 105 211 consisted of 300 mL HO water 93 g NaClO sodium chlorite 63 g NaSO sodium sulfite and 25 g NaCHO sodium hydrogen ascorbate . The same general ratios as used with the PCS were used to create the aqueous chlorine dioxide solution but on a scale of reduced quantities of roughly 20 fold. A typical mixture consisted of 15 mL HO water 4.7 g NaClO sodium chlorite 0.7 g NaSO sodium sulfite and 1.3 g NaCHO sodium hydrogen ascorbate . The relative proportions of the reagents were adjusted slightly in some cases which might be a factor that could help optimize the composition in commercial applications and still yielded aqueous chlorine dioxide. Chlorine dioxide ClO indicator test strips provided a general range of the estimated concentration.

In Step 1 of the mixing process pre concentration small quantities of the reagents were added into a spray bottle spray handle removed with a commensurate volume of water Table 1 . In general with slight variations for each respective composition after 2 10 minutes the reaction produces the green yellow color of chlorine dioxide. The presence of chlorine dioxide was identified and confirmed using UV V is spectrophotometry chlorine dioxide shows a characteristic maximum at 360 nm and the concentration of chlorine dioxide was assayed using commercially available chlorine dioxide indicator test strips. The pre concentration of the chemical reagents in this manner allowed for kinetics control to manage the time of reaction and concentration of chlorine dioxide produced.

In Step 2 of the mixing process post reaction dilution a commensurate volume of water 400 1000 mL was added to the plastic spray bottle to dilute the concentration of aqueous chlorine dioxide to the intended final concentration Table 1 . This two step process pre concentration and post reaction dilution constitutes a new method of mixing and exerts kinetics control over the process to control the timescale of the reaction of 2 10 minutes. If all of the water were added initially the reagent concentrations would be initially so dilute that either the reaction would effectively never take place or it would be too slow for any practical utility.

A 3 strain cocktail of was grown as the test culture. was chosen as the target microorganism for these demonstration purposes because it forms distinctive black colonies in Petri dishes containing Baird Parker Agar BPA supplemented with Egg Yolk Tellurite EYT that are readily observable. The count of the untreated controls was 2.96 10cfu mL.

Test 1 a 0.1 mL aliquot of the cell suspension was transferred to BPA EYT in a Petri dish and uniformly distributed on the BPA YET surface by spread plating using a glass hockey stick. The BPA EYT surface was sprayed with 5 squirts from a plastic spray bottle either rigid plastic or flexible plastic material containing a fresh solution of aqueous chlorine dioxide. The Petri dish was rotated between squirts to ensure that the disinfectant solution was evenly distributed across the entire inoculated agar surface and the disinfectant solution was not mechanically spread to enhance contact with the microbes. This application achieved 87 inactivation of target pathogens 3.89 10cfu mL survivors .

Test 2 1 mL of cell suspension was mixed with 1 mL of the generated chlorine dioxide solution and the mixture was agitated. A 0.1 mL aliquot of the mixture was transferred to BPA EYT in a Petri dish and a glass hockey stick was used to mechanically spread plate the aliquot uniformly across the agar surface. This procedure led to 100 inactivation 0 survivors of the entire inoculum.

The above and other features of the invention including various novel details of the assembly and combinations of parts will now be more particularly described and pointed out in the claims. The principles and features of this invention may be employed in various and numerous embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention.

