---

title: Electrically assisted friction stir welding
abstract: An electrically assisted friction stir welding method and arrangement in which the required downward/pressing force typically exerted on a workpiece is substantially reduced. The method and apparatus involves the creation of a localized heated zone on a workpiece undergoing a welding operation. The localized heated zone is created using a resistive heating circuit running through the friction stir welding tool and the workpiece.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08164021&OS=08164021&RS=08164021
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08164021
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080331
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a method and apparatus for friction stir welding and in particular an electrically assisted friction stir welding arrangement for welding workpieces by establishing a localized heated zone on the workpieces.

Welding is the preferred method of metal joining for most applications where permanent structural configuration is intended. The traditional weld mechanism of melting and initiating the pooling of a portion of each metal has undergone many changes. Since its inception friction stir welding FSW has improved weld efficiency and physical properties of the product joint among other advantages. Friction stir welding utilizes a rotating tip of appropriate material which is forced against the butting edges of the weld pieces. The rotating tool produces heat by friction on the workpiece softening the material and mixing it simultaneously. The process does not normally require filler metals and can often be successfully applied without an inert gas cover.

The friction stir welding technique however despite its simplicity has encountered a number of challenges. The relatively high downward vertical force on the tool required to produce the heating required to initiate the weld virtually necessitates a large machine which renders it impractical to have portable or handheld friction stir welding devices. Recently there have been developments in friction stir welding technology which have decreased the downward force requirements. These developments are focused on the supplementary heating of workpieces by various methods such as inductance heating resistance heating and laser heating. However the supplementary heating is not typically limited to the immediate region of welding and may adversely affect a larger region of the workpiece. Consequently there is a need for a supplemental heating arrangement that localizes the heat transmitted to the workpiece. It is also desired to have a friction stir welding arrangement that reduces the downward vertical force requirement by as much as 90 to improve the process and to enable the use of handheld portable tools. Other limitations of conventional friction stir welding include low weld speed and significant tool wear. Accordingly it is desired to have a friction stir welding apparatus and method that increases the weld speed and reduces the wear on the tool.

In one aspect the invention is an electrically assisted friction stir welding apparatus for reducing required downward forces on a workpiece during friction stir welding. In this aspect the apparatus includes a tool having a casing a pin for contacting the workpiece with the pin extending through the casing. The pin is mounted for axial rotation with respect to the tool. The apparatus also includes a motor for rotating the pin. In this aspect the invention includes a resistive heating circuit for heating the pin and for creating a localized heated zone on the workpiece. The resistive heating circuit has a power source a positive junction connected to the casing and a negative return junction defining the localized heated zone.

In another aspect the invention is an electrically assisted friction stir welding arrangement for reducing the required downward forces on a workpiece. The arrangement includes a workpiece and a vertically adjustable tool having a rotatable pin having a top portion and a bottom portion for contacting the workpiece. A workpiece table for supporting the workpiece below the pin is provided. In this aspect the invention further includes a resistive heating circuit for heating the rotatable pin and for creating a localized heated zone on the workpiece. The resistive heating circuit includes a power source a positive junction connected to the top portion of the pin and a negative return junction defining the localized heated zone. The negative return junction has a first contact positioned on the workpiece and a second contact positioned on the workpiece wherein when the pin contacts the workpiece the pin is substantially halfway between the first contact and the second contact.

In another aspect the invention is an electrically assisted friction stir welding method for reducing vertical force requirements. The method includes the providing of a friction stir welding tool having a rotatable pin and the providing of a workpiece. According to the method a resistive heating circuit is also provided the circuit having an independent power source attached to the rotatable pin of the friction stir welding tool at a first junction. In the circuit the power source is attached to the workpiece at a second junction wherein the second junction includes first and second contacts. The method further includes the creating of a localized heated zone on the workpiece by switching on the independent power supply and by moving the rotatable pin into contact with the workpiece. According to the method the localized heated zone is substantially between the first and second contacts. The method further includes the rotating of the rotatable pin and the advancing of the rotating pin across the surface of the workpiece to weld the workpiece.

The arrangement further includes a resistive heating circuit for providing supplemental heat by establishing a localized heated zone on the workpiece . The resistive heating circuit includes the tool the workpiece and also a power source which is an A.C. source but may also be a D.C. source. As shown in the power source is connected to the tool at a positive junction . The junction may be a slip commutation ring attached to an upper portion of the pin through the casing . The power source is also connected to the workpiece at a negative return junction . As shown the negative return junction includes first and second elongated contact strips and which are mounted on top of the workpiece . As shown the elongated strips and are positioned parallel to each other and parallel to the travel direction X of the pin . The strips and are connected to the power source at and as shown. Although illustrated as being mounted on top of the workpiece the elongated strips and may alternatively be mounted underneath the workpiece particularly in situations involving thicker workpieces. The strips may comprise a conductive metal such as copper or the like.

The resistive circuit provides supplemental heating and as will be outlined below creates a localized heated zone on the workpiece which results in a substantially reduced downward Fz force requirement during friction stir welding processes. In operation after the power source is turned on the resistive heating circuit is completed when the pin is moved vertically down in direction Z and contacts the workpiece . A current of about 450 amps to about 650 amps may be used. However some applications may require current values in the order of several thousand amps. The closed circuit is maintained as the pin travels along the surface of the workpiece in a substantially horizontal direction X. Because of the arrangement in which the elongated contact strips and are set parallel to travel direction X on either side of the pin the return current follows the pin as the pin travels between the strips and . As outlined below the elongated contact strips and are positioned to create the localized heated zone thereby maximizing the supplemental heating of the workpiece

Referring to the strip pair arrangement AA is closest to the moving tip and would therefore maximize the heating of the workpiece . The positioning of the AA for maximized heating should correspond to the positioning of elongated strips and shown in . In operation the resistive heating circuit supplementally heats the workpiece in two ways. First the circuit heats the pin which in turn transmits the heat to the workpiece . Second the circuit provides heat to the workpiece via the strips and . The heating of the workpiece via the heated traveling pin and from the strip pairs AA creates a localized heated zone as shown in between the dotted lines. The localized heated zone lies along the weld path and is defined by the strips AA . With respect to the localized heated zone lies in the channel like area between the elongated strips and . In one embodiment the distance S between the strips and is about 0.5 in to about 2.0 in with the pin substantially halfway between the strips. Thus according to this embodiment the pin is about 0.25 inch to about 1.0 inch from each of the strips and . Another advantage of the substantially narrow localized heated zone is the avoidance of the tempering of the workpiece due to the application of supplemental heat to widespread areas of the workpiece.

As shown the workpiece is supported on the table with an insulation strip sandwiched between the workpiece and the table . As outlined above the workpiece may be a single metallic sheet or may be two pieces of metal butted together. also shows elongated contact strips and positioned on top of the workpiece . further shows insulating plates and positioned on top of strips and respectively. Clamps and are used to maintain the arrangement during operation. Insulation strip is sandwiched between clamp and contact strip . Insulation strip is sandwiched between clamp and contact strip . The insulation strips and may be made of insulating material such as mica or the like. During welding operations the tool moves in a working direction X substantially parallel to the elongated length of strips and along the surface of the workpiece . To accommodate this motion the table may be movably mounted with respect to the tool . Alternatively the tool may be movably mounted with respect to the table . Alternatively both the tool and the table may be movably mounted with respect to each other.

The electrically assisted friction stir welding arrangements outlined above which creates a localized heated zone on workpieces significantly reduces the amount of downward pressing force Fz force required during friction stir welding operations. In one particular embodiment for an arrangement as shown in a stainless steel pin may have a diameter D of about 0.375 inches with diameter d being about 25 to about 75 of diameter D. In this particular embodiment the motor drives the pin at about 1300 rpm performing stir friction welding. A current of about 300 Amps may be used and the workpiece may be an AL 5083 plate of about 0.125 inches thickness. In this embodiment the downward force Fz force is about 90 lbs. Typically without the resistive heating circuit creating a localized heated zone the Fz force requirement would be about 1000 lbs. Therefore by using the disclosed arrangement only about 9 of the conventionally required Fz force produced the desired weld. Generally speaking a proper combination of variables electrical assisted stir friction welds can be produced in aluminum with an applied Fz force in the order of 100 lbs which is about 10 of what is conventionally required.

The above outlined examples related generally to an aluminum workpiece. However substantial Fz force requirement reductions are also possible in examples involving workpieces of other materials such as steel bronze copper steel or titanium. To obtain good results parameters such as pin diameter pin material current strength and rpm for example may be adjusted. For example steel workpieces require a more demanding welding environment. Thus the pin may preferably be made from more robust materials such as cubic boron nitride molybdenum tungsten rhenium or tantalum. Additionally current values rpm values and pin dimensions may be manipulated to meet the requirements of the system.

The arrangement further includes a resistive heating circuit which is powered by a power source . The power source is an A.C. source but may also be a D.C. source. In the resistive heating circuit the power source is connected to the tool at junction at the upper portion of the pin and also at the junction . The power source is connected to the workpiece via a negative return junction at spring contacts and . The contacts and are located on opposite sides of the lower pin portion and each contact may be about 0.25 inches to about 1.0 inch away from the pin at the point where the pin contacts the workpiece . As will be outlined below as the tool moves across the workpiece the contacts and maintain sliding contact with the workpiece.

In operation the electrically assisted friction stir welding arrangement works in a similar manner to the arrangements outlined in . Electrical energy from the resistive heating circuit heats the workpiece via the lower pin portion and via the contacts and . As the tool is manipulated across the workpiece surface the resistive heating circuit is maintained because both the pin and the contacts and maintain contact with the workpiece. The resistive heating circuit therefore creates a localized heated zone on the workpiece in the region between contacts and . The heat created in the localized heated zone softens the workpiece to the extent that a substantially reduced Fz force is required to weld the workpiece. It should be noted that pin materials pin diameters current values rpm values workpiece materials and other parameters outlined with respect to are also applicable in the portable arrangement .

As shown in the tool includes a casing and a pin which extends through the casing and through a workpiece . The tool also includes a motor for rotating the pin . shows insulation which insulates the pin from the body of the tool. The casing includes an upper shoulder and a lower shoulder the upper and lower shoulders attached to upper and lower surfaces respectively of the workpiece for clamping the tool to the workpiece. As stated above the workpiece may be a single metallic sheet or may be two pieces of metal butted together. In the clamping arrangement operation involving a single sheet workpiece a hole may be drilled through the workpiece and the pin subsequently threaded through the drilled hole. In a workpiece arrangement in which two sheets are butted together the pin may be positioned in the slot between two sheets. With the pin in the threaded hole or in the slot the tool is then clamped via the upper and lower shoulders and to the workpiece .

Step is providing of a resistive heating circuit. The resistive heating circuit includes an independent power source attached to the rotatable pin of the friction stir welding tool at a first junction. The power source is attached to the workpiece at a second junction wherein the second junction includes first and second contacts. The first and second contacts may be fixed plates as shown in or may be slidable contacts as shown in . Step is the creating of a localized heated zone on the workpiece by switching on the independent power supply and by moving the rotatable pin into contact with the workpiece to close the circuit. The localized heated zone is substantially between the first and second contacts.

Step is the rotating of the rotatable pin which is powered by motor associated with the tool. Step is the advancing of the rotating pin across the surface of the workpiece to weld the workpiece. As outlined above the workpiece may be a single metallic sheet in which case the welding is performed to mechanically alter a surface of the workpiece. Alternatively the workpiece may be a couple of metallic sheets butted together in which case the welding may be performed to join the two sheets into a single structure.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

