---

title: Location specific content
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer program products communicate location information associated with a device, such as a mobile device, to a server. Content identified by the server is received at the device, from the server and/or from a content service. The content can include an application associated with the location information. The content received at the device is displayed on the device only while the device is at or near a particular location identified by the location information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08260320&OS=08260320&RS=08260320
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08260320
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081113
---
Mobile devices have grown more powerful and feature rich and now include such features as personal digital assistant PDA capabilities cameras Internet access Wi Fi access etc. Software applications may be stored and or run on mobile devices in the same or similar manner as such applications are run on laptop or desktop computers. Unlike conventional cumbersome computers the mobility of such devices enables applications that provide features based on the mobility of such devices. For instance location based services have been developed for determining and tracking the locations of users of mobile devices.

Location based services provide location specific information to mobile devices. For instance a mobile device user can use a mapping program and global positioning system GPS data to identify the location of the mobile device on a map of a geographic region. Use of mapping software requires that the software be previously installed on the device such that it is operable in any location.

Despite the mobile nature of such devices and the ability of such devices to know their location and or access networks e.g. via public or private Wi Fi users are still restricted to applications that are installed on the device or which the user has decided to install for permanent use.

In one aspect systems methods apparatuses and computer program products are provided that enable content such as applications to appear and disappear on a mobile device depending on the presence of a mobile device within a Wi Fi network and or based on a location of the device.

In one aspect methods are disclosed which include steps such as communicating location information associated with a device to a server receiving at the device content identified by the server the content comprising an application associated with the location information and presenting the received content on a display of the device only while the device is at or near a particular location identified by the location information.

According to some features the method can include removing the presentation of the content when the device is no longer at or near the particular location. Receiving the content can include receiving the content from a content service the content service identified by the server. Alternatively or additionally the content can be received from the server. According to another feature the content identified by the server can include a uniform resource locator URL a web clip or an application. The application can be associated with the particular location. The location information can be identified and or received from a positioning system. The positioning system can derive the location information from satellite data received from a plurality of satellites use dead reckoning to derive the location information or use a wireless signal strength of the device to derive the location information. According to yet another feature the location information can be identified by communication of the mobile device with a wireless access point.

In another aspect methods are disclosed which include steps such as receiving at a mobile device beacon data from a wireless access point wherein the beacon data comprises a URL when the mobile device is within a range of the wireless access point presenting content on the mobile device associated with the URL and upon user selection of the content receiving an application for execution on the mobile device.

According to some features the method can include executing the application. The application in some features may be executed only if the mobile device is within the geographical range of the wireless access point. According to another feature the method can include receiving the user selection at the mobile device. According to yet another feature the method can include removing the content presentation when the mobile device is no longer within the range of the wireless access point. The wireless access point can include a Wi Fi access point. Receiving an application can include receiving an application from a content service and or from the wireless access point. The application can include a web clip.

In yet another aspect a system is disclosed. The system includes a positioning system operable to derive location information associated with a device a location mapping service operable to store content associated with one or more locations of the device a communications interface operable to communicate location information associated with the device to a server the communications interface being further operable to receive at least some of the content from the server based on the location information and a user interface operable to present the received content on the device when the device is at or near a location identified by the location information.

According to a feature the content includes a URL or a web clip. The content can alternatively or additionally include video content picture content audio content multimedia content or routing content associated with a geographical area within a proximate distance to the device based on the location information. According to another feature the user interface is operable to present the received content on the device only when the device is at or near a location identified by the location information. The location information can be identified and or received from a positioning system. The positioning system can derive the location information from satellite data received from a plurality of satellites use dead reckoning to derive the location information or use a wireless signal strength of the device to derive the location information.

According to still another aspect a system is disclosed. The system includes a wireless access point the wireless access point transmitting beacon data comprising a URL a mobile device operable to receive the beacon data when the mobile device is within a range of the wireless access point and a user interface operable to display content on the mobile device the content associated with the URL.

According to a feature the system can also include an application for execution on the mobile device upon user selection of the content. The content can include a URL a web clip video content picture content audio content multimedia content and or routing content associated with a geographical area within a proximate distance to the device based on the location information. According to another feature the user interface is operable to display the content on the mobile device only when the mobile device is at or near the wireless access point.

Systems methods and computer program products enable content such as applications to automatically appear and disappear on a mobile device depending on the location of the device. This permits a user to view and or interact with applications associated with a particular location. As an example a user who enters a library with a mobile device may be presented with an application on the device that enables the user to search the library s digital card catalog. Upon exiting the library the application may be automatically removed such that the application is not permanent on the user s mobile device. These features enable the mobile device to make applications available when and where they are most useful to users.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display can implement liquid crystal display LCD technology light emitting polymer display LPD technology or some other display technology. The touch sensitive display can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user.

In some implementations the touch sensitive display can comprise a multi touch sensitive display . A multi touch sensitive display can for example process multiple simultaneous touch points including processing data related to the pressure degree and or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers chording and other interactions. Other touch sensitive display technologies can also be used e.g. a display in which contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. Some examples of multi touch sensitive display technology are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 846 6 570 557 6 677 932 and U.S. Patent Publication 2002 0015024A1 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user. In some implementations the graphical user interface can include one or more display objects . In the example shown the display objects are graphic representations of system objects. Some examples of system objects include device functions applications windows files alerts events or other identifiable system objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a telephony device as indicated by a phone object an e mail device as indicated by the e mail object a network data communication device as indicated by the Web object a Wi Fi base station device not shown and a media processing device as indicated by the media player object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the phone object the e mail object the Web object and the media player object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement network distribution functionality. For example the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device and its associated network while traveling. In particular the mobile device can extend Internet access e.g. Wi Fi to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example mobile device can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such mobile device can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.

In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example in response to a user touching the phone object the graphical user interface of the touch sensitive display may present display objects related to various phone functions likewise touching of the email object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various e mail functions touching the Web object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various Web surfing functions and touching the media player object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various media processing functions.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface environment or state of can be restored by pressing a button located near the bottom of the mobile device . In some implementations each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding home display objects displayed on the touch sensitive display and the graphical user interface environment of can be restored by pressing the home display object.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include additional display objects such as a short messaging service SMS object a calendar object a photos object a camera object a calculator object a stocks object a weather object a maps object a notes object a clock object an address book object and a settings object . Touching the SMS display object can for example invoke an SMS messaging environment and supporting functionality likewise each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . For example if the device is functioning as a base station for other devices one or more connection objects may appear in the graphical user interface to indicate the connection. In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user e.g. a user may specify which display objects are displayed and or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example a speaker and a microphone can be included to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch sensitive display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch sensitive display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations an ambient light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch sensitive display . In some implementations an accelerometer can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape. In some implementations the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS or other positioning systems e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device through an interface e.g. port device to provide access to location based services.

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as a 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi 3G code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE etc.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. In some implementations the port device allows the mobile device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP HTTP UDP and any other known protocol. In some implementations a TCP IP over USB protocol can be used.

The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other wireless devices cell phones etc. over the wireless network . Likewise the mobile devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication device shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

The mobile device can for example communicate with one or more services and and or one or more content publishers over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example a navigation service can provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device . In the example shown a user of the mobile device has invoked a map functionality e.g. by pressing the maps object on the top level graphical user interface shown in and has requested and received a map for the location 1 Infinite Loop Cupertino Calif. 

A messaging service can for example provide e mail and or other messaging services. A media service can for example provide access to media files such as song files movie files video clips and other media data. One or more other services can also be utilized by the mobile device .

The mobile device can also access other data and content over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching the Web object .

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a positioning system e.g. GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

In some implementations the mobile device can receive positioning information from a positioning system . The positioning system in various implementations can be located on the mobile device or can be coupled to the mobile device e.g. using a wired connection or a wireless connection . In some implementations the positioning system can include a global positioning system GPS receiver and a positioning engine operable to derive positioning information from received GPS satellite signals. In other implementations the positioning system can include a compass and an accelerometer as well as a positioning engine operable to derive positioning information based on dead reckoning techniques. In still further implementations the positioning system can use wireless signals e.g. cellular signals IEEE 802.11 signals etc to determine location information associated with the mobile device such as those provided by Skyhook Wireless Inc. of Boston Mass. Hybrid positioning systems using a combination of satellite and television signals such as those provided by Rosum Corporation of Mountain View Calif. can also be used. Other positioning systems are possible.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device may include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network. In particular the wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keyboard.

In some embodiments the mobile device can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations the mobile device can include the functionality of an MP3 player such as an iPod . The mobile device may therefore include a 36 pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input output and control devices can also be used.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. The memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other software instructions to facilitate other processes and functions.

The memory can also include a preferences engine . The preferences engine can be operable to receive user preferences as to the sorts of content the user is interested. In some implementations the preferences can be used to filter the sorts of information that is sent to the mobile device . For example the user might indicate a preference for local music. Thus when local music is available the mobile device can retrieve available local music. In another example the user might indicate a preference not to receive video route or image content when in a specified area e.g. hometown familiar city etc. but to receive route and image content when outside of their specified area. These preferences can be communicated to a media service e.g. media service of and can be used by the media service to provide relevant media content based on location and or preferences.

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

As shown in the WAP transmits wireless signals such that devices within a surrounding geographic area can communicate with the WAP . For instance a first mobile device A that is located within the geographic area in range of i.e. capable of communicating with the WAP can communicate with the WAP while a second mobile device B outside of the geographic area cannot. According to some implementations the WAP can represent a Wi Fi access point such that the geographic area represents a hotspot. According to some implementations the WAP permits unrestricted public access to mobile devices such as free hotspots made available at a restaurant airport and the like. In other implementations the WAP is restricted such that some authentication is required using known network security processes before a mobile device can communication through the WAP .

According to some implementations a mobile device such as the mobile device A located within the geographic area can automatically display new content including icons representing web clips on mobile devices when the devices enter and or remain in the geographic area . Similarly such content may disappear from mobile devices when devices exit the geographic area . Thus the display of content on a mobile device can be location dependent where the location may be defined as within range of i.e. capable of communicating with the WAP . According to some implementations the content is provided by the WAP . Content can also be pushed and or retrieved from the content service to mobile devices in communication with the WAP .

In some implementations content can be included in beacon data broadcast from the WAP to mobile devices within the geographic area of the WAP . Beacon data from WAPs generally includes a data transmission including a service set identifier SSID channel number and security protocols such as WEP Wired Equivalent Protection or WPA Wi Fi Protected Access . Beacon data can also include a URL. The beacon data can be received by any mobile device such as the mobile device A shown in that is within the geographic area that acts as a client device.

A URL received by a mobile device from a WAP in beacon data can be used by an application on a mobile device such as a web browser to automatically lookup the web site identified by the URL. In some implementations subsequent to receiving the URL the mobile device can communicate with and examine the web site to identify a site based icon file that can be used as art to display an icon representing the content. A screen shot of the URL could also be scaled down when a site based icon file is not available. According to yet another implementation the icon image could be transmitted to the mobile device from the WAP .

The mobile device can create a new storage location on the mobile device in which to store information associated with the URL including for instance the icon and the URL. The name of the content can also be stored on the device. Content identified by the URL received via the beacon can automatically appear on the mobile device. The content is selectable by a user of the device such as by touching tapping or otherwise selecting the content. Additional content downloaded from the URL such as from the content service can also be stored in the new storage location.

An example mobile device which includes content identified by a URL received via beacon data is shown in . The content in includes an icon which is a display object on the touch sensitive display of the mobile device. In the illustrative example of the content includes a user selectable icon corresponding to a library catalog. This could appear for instance on the mobile device when carried by a user into a library having a WAP . When the icon is selected a library catalog application will launch on the mobile device to permit a user of the mobile device to search the library catalog.

Referring again to in some implementations a user can select an icon transmitted to a mobile device from the WAP which in turn opens a link to the URL using for instance a web browser. According to some implementations a user selection of an icon loads a web application. A web application is a browser based application that can load in a web page or can be configured to look like an application rather than appearing to a user of the mobile device to load within a browser. In some implementations the URL identifies the content service . Therefore upon selection of a URL provided by the WAP a mobile device A can be directed to the content service which can automatically download a content such as an application video content picture content audio content multimedia content or routing content associated with a geographical area within a proximate distance to the mobile device based on the location information and or other media to the mobile device A for display to a user of the device. The content may be downloaded as illustrated in from the content service to the mobile device A via the WAP . As shown by the dotted line in the content service may also wirelessly transmit content directly to the mobile device . According to some implementations a user may have to consent to the downloading of an application or choose to download an application displayed as available on the display of the mobile device prior to downloading occurring.

Content may be downloaded to and executed on mobile devices within the geographical area . Content can also remain on the content service and be accessed by the mobile device A. For instance content displayed on the mobile device A can represent web based hosted content viewable and or executable on the mobile device. Therefore location specific content made available to mobile devices within the range of a WAP can be hosted and or stored at any accessible network location including at the WAP the content service other network locations accessible from the network s and or on the mobile device A itself.

It will be appreciated that the transmission of a URL in beacon data from a WAP to a mobile device enables the identification of content to mobile devices within the range of the WAP without requiring the system to provide a database mapping location information of mobile devices to URLs or other content.

In the implementation shown in content will appear on a display of the mobile device A within the range of the WAP and will disappear when the mobile device A leaves the geographic area . Thus according to some implementations storage on the mobile device A can retain a URL icon and other content only while the beacon data continues to be received at the device A from the WAP . The presence of the beacon data can be routinely confirmed by the mobile device. However in some implementations a user can be queried to determine if the user wishes to permanently store content on the mobile device A even after the user departs the geographic area if the WAP and or content service consents to such permanent storage and use the content can remain on the mobile device A.

Optionally a user can define preferences on a mobile device that include information such as what type of content or from what sources a user associated with the mobile device is interested in receiving. Thus the user can set up the mobile device to receive only certain kinds of content and or content from certain types of content providers. In some implementations a user can define preferences on a mobile device that permits the user to ignore content corresponding to a particular WAP or from a particular source. According to some implementations upon receipt of beacon data that includes a URL or other content a user may be presented with one or more icons or buttons on the mobile device to permit the user to ignore the content.

Additionally although not described in detail herein the loading of content can be effected over secure communication methods. Additionally in some implementations content downloaded to the mobile device A may require that the mobile device subsequently communicate with the content service and those communications may be secure as well. The use of authentication processes may be required before accessing the WAP and or content service and a certificate on the mobile device may be required. As an example the geographic area can represent the area within or around a retail store. Using the system all customers may be able to view content identifying what products are on sale while authenticated employees of the retail store could view inventory items.

According to some implementations once location information for the mobile device is identified content associated with the location of the device can be identified by a server that receives the location information from the device. The server can include a location mapping service . The location mapping service can include one or more databases that include one or more location content tables that correlate geographical locations to content to identify content if any that should be transmitted to the mobile device while the device is at or near a particular location identified by the location information. For instance the location content tables could identify that content such as text images and the like associated with a national park should be transmitted to mobile devices that are located within the geographical area of the park or within a mile from the center of the park.

To effect the identification of content the location mapping service identifies the current location of a mobile device from location information and compares the location information to geographical location data in the location content tables to determine if the location data satisfies i.e. falls within the geographical location data. Location information and geographical location data can be identified for instance using latitude and longitude data. Once the location information is determined by the location mapping service to satisfy geographical location data the location mapping service identifies content corresponding to the satisfied geographical location data.

According to some implementations the location content tables can identify URLs associated with location information. The service can communicate the URLs to the mobile device which can use the URLs to access content from a content service in the same manner as described above in the system of . For instance a browser on the mobile device can use the URL to access a web page and content thereon provided by the content service .

Similar to the system of content may also be presented only while the device is at or near a particular location identified by the location information. Therefore location information can be routinely transmitted to the location mapping service such as once every minute five minutes or on other intervals to identify if the location of the mobile device has changed. If so the location mapping service can transmit a signal identifying new content to the mobile device and or removing content from the mobile device that was previous received by the device .

Other features of the system may be similar to the system described with respect to . For instance in some implementations a user can define preferences on a mobile device. The preferences permit the user to ignore content corresponding to one or more locations or from a particular source. According to some implementations upon receipt of content corresponding to a particular location such as a URL or other content a user may be presented with one or more icons or buttons on the mobile device to permit the user to ignore the content.

An example mobile device that includes content identified in a database associated with a location of a mobile device is shown in . The content in includes icons which is a display object on the touch sensitive display of the mobile device. In the illustrative example of the content includes user selectable icons corresponding to a timer and a menu. These icons could appear for instance when the mobile device is in or near a restaurant. The user of the device may for instance view a seating wait time icon that displays the estimated wait time before being seated. This may be displayed for instance where a user of the device provides a PIN telephone number or other identification information to a restaurant hostess or alternatively identifies that the user is waiting electronically using the mobile device. The place order icon may be selected by a user of the device to view and place an order for food electronically. For instance the content service may include order software associated with the restaurant which the user can access via the place order icon to submit a food order electronically to the restaurant. Because these icons automatically appear on the device when the user is at the restaurant the user does not need to pre configure and or pre download content to the device prior to arriving at the restaurant.

According to some implementations a combination of the features of the systems described in may be used to effect the display of location specific content on a mobile device. For instance in the system of a URL may not be transmitted to the mobile device A within the geographical area . Instead the mobile device A may receive an icon via the beacon data and subsequent o user selection of the icon a URL can be identified by a lookup procedure that identifies the URL in a location content database that associates the location information and or identity of the WAP . For instance the location of the WAP may be stored in a database which then associates content such as a URL with the WAP so that content specific to the location of the WAP is served to mobile devices in the vicinity of the WAP.

According to some implementation mobile devices can be identified by the networks using a zero configuration networking such as MDNS. The use of MDNS for instance would permit the mobile device to identify itself and connect to the network such that the content service can communicate with the mobile device. According to some implementations a MDNS host could identify the location of content to a mobile device for retrieval and or downloading by the mobile device this could occur for instance if the mobile device has accessed a base station.

According to other implementations mobile devices can be identified using Bluetooth which can provide content such as URLs to a mobile device having Bluetooth capabilities. Therefore it will be appreciated that other protocols and wireless networks other than Wi Fi may be used to implement the features described herein. In other implementations barcode data can be used to identify content such as URLs. For instance a mobile device can include a camera or barcode scanner that is operable to scan a barcode and use the barcode to identify content such as a URL. One or more databases such as those described with respect to can associate barcodes with URLs or the location of additional content.

In still other implementations content can be transmitted to a mobile device over a physical connection for instance through a docking station to which the mobile device is attached. For instance a universal serial bus USB 30 pin dock can be used to transmit content such as a URL to a mobile device. In such an implementation the location of the mobile device because of the fixed connection to a dock. Therefore the content can be based on the location of the dock as an alternative to identifying the location of the mobile device through location information.

In step beacon data is received from a wireless access point wirelessly by the device such as the mobile device in . Content within the beacon data such as a URL is identified by the mobile device . As an example the WAP can provide one or more URLs to the mobile device in the beacon data which may then be selected by a user and used by the mobile device to access additional content from a content service such as content service which is also operable to wirelessly transmit content that is received by the mobile device either directly or through a wireless access point. Content can be received for example by the mobile device e.g. mobile device operating in conjunction with communication instructions e.g. communication instructions of and the wireless communication subsystem e.g. wireless communication subsystem of .

The received content is available e.g. presented on a display of the mobile device while the device is within the range of the WAP. The content can be presented for example by the mobile device e.g. mobile device operating in conjunction with graphical user interface instructions e.g. GUI instructions of along with a touch screen e.g. touch screen of and or an audio subsystem e.g. audio subsystem of . The presentation of the content can be based upon user input received using the touch screen user interface.

The location information is used by the server such as the location mapping service to identify content corresponding to geographical location data corresponding to the location of the mobile device as identified to the location information. For instance content associated with the location of the mobile device may be identified in one or more databases such as the location content tables .

The server for instance the location mapping service transmits content that may be received by the mobile device . As an example the location mapping service can provide one or more URLs to the mobile device which may then be used by the mobile device to access additional content from a content service which is also operable to wirelessly transmit content that is received by the mobile device . Content can be received for example by the mobile device e.g. mobile device operating in conjunction with communication instructions e.g. communication instructions of and the wireless communication subsystem e.g. wireless communication subsystem of . In additional implementations not illustrated in the mobile device can filter the content based on preferences or one or more authentication procedures may be required to receive the content.

The received content is presented on a display of the mobile device while the device is at or near a particular location identified by the location information. The content can be presented for example by the mobile device e.g. mobile device operating in conjunction with graphical user interface instructions e.g. GUI instructions of along with a touch screen e.g. touch screen of and or an audio subsystem e.g. audio subsystem of . The presentation of the content can be based upon user input received using the touch screen user interface.

The systems and methods disclosed herein may use data signals conveyed using networks e.g. local area network wide area network internet etc. fiber optic medium carrier waves wireless networks e.g. wireless local area networks wireless metropolitan area networks cellular networks etc. etc. for communication with one or more data processing devices e.g. mobile devices . The data signals can carry any or all of the data disclosed herein that is provided to or from a device.

The methods and systems described herein may be implemented on many different types of processing devices by program code comprising program instructions that are executable by one or more processors. The software program instructions may include source code object code machine code or any other stored data that is operable to cause a processing system to perform methods described herein.

The systems and methods may be provided on many different types of computer readable media including computer storage mechanisms e.g. CD ROM diskette RAM flash memory computer s hard drive etc. that contain instructions for use in execution by a processor to perform the methods operations and implement the systems described herein.

The computer components software modules functions and data structures described herein may be connected directly or indirectly to each other in order to allow the flow of data needed for their operations. It is also noted that software instructions or a module can be implemented for example as a subroutine unit of code or as a software function unit of code or as an object as in an object oriented paradigm or as an applet or in a computer script language or as another type of computer code or firmware. The software components and or functionality may be located on a single device or distributed across multiple devices depending upon the situation at hand.

This written description sets forth the best mode of the invention and provides examples to describe the invention and to enable a person of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention. This written description does not limit the invention to the precise terms set forth. Thus while the invention has been described in detail with reference to the examples set forth above those of ordinary skill in the art may effect alterations modifications and variations to the examples without departing from the scope of the invention.

