---

title: Spectrophotometric system for simultaneous flow-through measurements of dissolved inorganic carbon, pH and COfugacity
abstract: Provided is a flow-through CO2 system for simultaneously measuring surface seawater pH, carbon dioxide fugacity (fCO2), and total dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC). All measurements are based on spectrophotometric determinations of solution pH at multiple wavelengths using sulfonephthalein indicators.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08077311&OS=08077311&RS=08077311
owner: University of South Florida
number: 08077311
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080424
---
This application is a Non Provisional Application of co pending U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 913 688 filed Apr. 24 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under NOAA Grants NA04OAR4310096 AB133R 03 CN 0091 and NA05OAR4601143 to the University of South Florida. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Measurements of four seawater inorganic carbon system parameters pH carbon dioxide fugacity fCO2 or partial pressure of CO p CO total dissolved inorganic carbon DIC and total alkalinity TA are essential for carbon cycle investigations on both global and local scales. Both observational and modeling efforts rely on high quality inorganic carbon data from field measurements. Extensive efforts have been devoted to improving methodologies and instruments for determination of carbon parameters in seawater.

In standard conventional methodologies the four core parameters of the seawater inorganic carbon system are measured using diverse instrumentation e.g. potentiometry spectrophotometry gas chromatography non dispersive infrared analysis and coulometry . Recent advances in technology and materials have prompted many researchers to adapt these diverse methodologies for use in unattended in situ devices and autonomous underway systems without compromising precision and accuracy relative to standard methods e.g. for in situ pCO underway pCO underway pH in situ pH underway DIC and underway TA .

It is preferable for all four parameters of the seawater inorganic carbon system are measured simultaneously and continuously with high temporal resolution and with high precision and accuracy. Although any two of the four parameters are sufficient to fully characterize the inorganic carbon system via thermodynamic calculations additional parameters are required to ensure internal consistency of measurements and evaluate the thermodynamic characterizations that relate various COsystem parameters.

Among all available methodologies for measurements of inorganic carbon species in seawater spectrophotometric methods are especially promising because they can be used to unify measurements of different parameters and achieve simultaneous multi parameter measurements at relatively lowcost. Moreover spectrophotometric methods have many advantageous attributes for measuring inorganic carbon species in seawater high sensitivity good stability and selectivity simplicity and low rates of sample and reagent consumption.

Spectrophotometric pH measurements using absorbance ratios at multiple wavelengths have long been utilized to obtain precise 0.0004 discrete shipboard measurements of seawater pH. As such spectrophotometric pH measurements are approximately an order of magnitude more precise than potentiometric pH measurements. As an additional advantage relative to potentiometric measurements at sea spectrophotometric pH measurements do not require calibration subsequent to laboratory characterizations of each indicator s molecular properties as a function of temperature salinity pressure and ionic strength. Since pH measurements require very low indicator concentrations 

Researchers have also developed spectrophotometric sensors for oceanic p COmeasurements. These sensors have been deployed for measurements on moorings with reported precisions 1 2 atm close to those obtained in shipboard measurements using a COgas equilibrator with nondispersive infrared analysis. Spectrophotometric p COmeasurements are generally based on the same principle as those utilized in spectrophotometric pH measurements.

A membrane optical cell containing a sulfonephthalein indicator functions as a traditional spectrophotometric cell and a COequilibrator. Water samples surround the optical cell but do not have direct contact with the internal indicator solution. COin water samples equilibrates with the cell s internal indicator solution. The resulting pH of the internal solution is measured by a spectrophotometer connected to the cell with optical fibers. The optical cell can be made of polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE or silicone both of which are permeable to COmolecules.

Teflon AF 2400 is ideal for spectrophotometric p COmeasurements because it is highly permeable to COgas molecules and can be used as a long pathlength liquid core waveguide LCW . Long pathlengths can improve detection sensitivity and high COpermeability can reduce equilibration times. Byrne et al. described spectrophotometric DIC measurements using Teflon AF 2400 tubing as both an optical cell and a gas permeable membrane. see R. H. Byrne X. Liu E. Kaltenbacher K. Sell Anal. Chim Acta 451 2002 221 which is incorporated herein by reference . The method is similar to spectrophotometric pCOmeasurement except that water samples are acidified converting all carbonate species to CO. Spectrophotometric pH measurements are then used to determine DIC as total COafter equilibration across the wall of the LCW.

The procedure is quite simple compared to the coulometric method and has a comparable precision 1 2 mol kg and accuracy 5 mol kg . The reported response time was less than 15 min which can be further improved by selection of thinner wall and smaller diameter capillary tubing. Spectrophotometric DIC measurements are also field portable and easily adapted to in situ analysis.

What is needed however is an autonomous multi parameter flow through CO2 system for simultaneous measurement of surface seawater pH fCO2 and DIC.

The invention includes an autonomous multi parameter flow through COsystem for the simultaneous measurement of surface seawater pH carbon dioxide fugacity fCO2 and total dissolved inorganic carbon DIC . In one embodiment the measurements are based on spectrophotometric determinations of solution pH at multiple wavelengths using sulfonephthalein indicators. The pH optical cell of this embodiment is machined from a PEEK polymer rod bearing a bore hole with an optical pathlength of 15 cm. The fCOoptical cell consists of capillary tubing sealed within the bore hole of a PEEK rod.

The tubing is filled with a standard indicator solution with a fixed total alkalinity and forms a liquid core waveguide LCW . The LCW functions as both a long pathlength 15 cm optical cell and a membrane that equilibrates the internal standard solution with external seawater. Fugacity fCO is determined by measuring the pH of the internal solution. DIC is measured by determining the pH of standard internal solutions in equilibrium with seawater that has been acidified to convert all forms of DIC to CO. The system runs repetitive measurement cycles with a sampling frequency of 7 samples 21 measurements per hour. The invention integrates spectrophotometric measurements of multiple COparameters into a single package suitable for observations of both seawater and freshwater.

The invention includes a multi parameter spectrophotometric flow through COsystem capable of simultaneously measuring surface seawater fCO DIC and pH with high sensitivity and consistency with current state of the art measurements. The invention incorporates a modular design allowing additional channels dedicated to other chemical properties to be incorporated conveniently. For example a total alkalinity TA channel can be incorporated whereby all four parameters of the inorganic carbon system can be measured based on spectrophotometric principles. A dedicated for monitoring monitor atmospheric fCOuses the same reagents required for seawater fCOmeasurements. Atmospheric fCOis determined by measuring an uncontaminated air stream pumped through the sample passage of the fCO air channel.

The invention can be adapted for deployments on moorings or other platforms in addition to the underway embodiment discussed below. The invention makes underway measurements at a constant temperature using a large thermostated water bath.

The invention also provides for calibration free measurements of fCOand DIC using indicator solutions with a constant composition i.e. fixed well defined total alkalinity . Proper storage of indicator solutions that have been calibrated in the laboratory eliminates the necessity of fCOand DIC calibrations at sea.

The quality of fCO DIC and pH measurements obtained with the current underway system is comparable to that obtained with established standard methods. Given the sampling costs and complexity of current conventional analytical methods wherein each fCO system measurement requires approximately two shipboard personnel automated systems are beneficial to oceanic carbon studies.

The invention includes an automated multi parameter flow through COsystem with a plurality of seawater channels that simultaneously measure surface seawater pH fCO and DIC. The system can operate continuously and measure three parameters at a constant temperature 25 C. every 8 min 7 samples per hour . The main sub units of the system include optical system optical cells light sources and spectrometers etc. flow control system peristaltic pumps and valves etc. and the electronic control system. Measurement temperature is controlled by an integrated thermostat. Additional components include a pressure transmitter for measurements of atmospheric pressure and a conductivy temperature depth CTD profiler.

Direct spectrophotometric measurements of seawater pH are obtained with a small bore hole PEEK Polyetheretherketone rod. By continuously mixing water sample and indicator solution pH can be measured in real time. Teflon AF 2400 capillary tubing was used as both an LCW and a gas equilibrium membrane cell for fCOand DIC measurements. A sulfonephthalein indicator with constant total alkalinity dissolved NaCO serves as the liquid core of the Teflon LCW tubing and water samples acidified water samples for DIC measurements are directed to flow externally. After equilibration across the COpermeable Teflon AF membrane the fCOof the internal solution and the external sample are identical. DIC and fCOare determined through spectrophotometric measurements of internal solution pH. Depending on the desired pH range of the internal solutions different indicators and total alkalinities are chosen for fCOand DIC. For underway measurements the parameters are measured at a thermostated temperature 25 C. .

An illustrative embodiment of the invention is shown in . The flow control system of this embodiment includes sample filter CTD reagent storage system pump assembly valve assembly debubbling assembly solution equilibrating coils and sample equilibration coils . The optical system includes fCOspectrometer DIC spectrometer pH spectrometer light source pH cell DIC cell and fCOcell . Thermostated chamber houses the optical cells and as well as the associated plumbing including solution equilibrating coils and sample equilibration coils . Control system communicates with all components and logs the data from the three measurement channels. Having described the structure of the multi parameter flow through COsystem generally the components of specific embodiments of the invention will be discussed in greater detail.

Carbon dye pump is disposed in fluid communication between fCOdye reservoir and fCOcell through fCOreagent input as well as between DIC dye reservoir and DIC cell through DIC reagent input . Lastly carbon reference pump is disposed in fluid communication between fCOreference reservoir and fCOcell through fCOreagent input as well as between DIC reference reservoir and DIC cell through DIC reagent input .

In operation water passes through a plastic plate filter to remove large suspended particles the water sample flows into the bottom port of the CTD housing and discharges from the top port. Water samples are drawn from a middle port of the housing by sample pump and distributed to fCOsample input DIC sample input and pH sample input . Acid pump injects hydrochloric acid HCl 2.5 M from acid reservoir into the sample DIC sample input through a T connector to acidify samples for DIC measurement. An in line mixer such as a plastic coil inserted in the tubing is used to mix the sample with HCl after the T connector. The mixing ratio seawater to HCl is maintained at 700 1. The pH water sample mixes with the pH indicator solution delivered by the pH dye pump with a mixing ratio of 700 1. Another in line mixer is used to facilitate further mixing. The sample leading through fCOsample input is not mixed with any reagent.

Sample thermal equilibration coils are disposed along each sample input before the three lines of water samples flow through the three optical cells. Chemically inert tubing which possesses good gas impermeability such as PEEK and ParMed tubing are preferably used for plumbing downstream from the CTD to minimize possible contamination of samples and reagents.

Valve assembly includes a plurality of two way solenoid valves adapted to stop the flow of reagents from the reference and dye reservoirs while the fCOand DIC optical cells are in use. A plurality of debubblers are located downstream from valve assembly to remove air bubbles from the streams of reference and dye solutions.

The optical cells and their associated plumbing are all located inside thermostated water bath to maintain a constant measurement temperature i.e. 25.0 0.1 C. . The fCO2 DIC reference and dye solutions pass through reagent temperature equilibrating coils before entering fCOcell through fCOreagent input and DIC cell through DIC reagent input .

Three miniature fiber optic spectrometers pH spectrometer DIC spectrometer and fCOspectrometer are used to detect optical signals from the corresponding optical cells. In the embodiment used to generate the data disclosed below each spectrometer was equipped with a 2048 element CCD array capable of spectral observations between 200 and 1100 nm with an optical resolution of 0.33 nm. The spectrometers are housed in thermostated chamber to overcome the signal drift that may occur as a result of thermal changes during long term use. Thermostated chamber regulates temperature to 18 1 C.

In this example fCOcell and DIC cell were fabricated from PEEK rods. The centerpiece of the fCOand IC cell had a 27 mm O.D. and a 2 mm I.D. with a length of 15 cm. A Teflon AF 2400 Liquid Crystal Waveguide LCW 0.5 mm O.D. 0.4 mm I.D. Biogeneral CA was disposed inside this centerpiece. Structure of the optical cells is . The centerpiece of the fCOcell and DIC cell are equiped sample inlet reagent inlet with sample outlet and reagent outlet on the opposite side of LCW . A first optical fiber connects the optical cell with the light source not shown and a second optical fiber connects the optical cell with the corresponding spectrophotometer. The optical fibers are inserted into the ends of LCW through PEEK connectors . The ends of LCW are sealed by O rings housed inside connectors . PEEK connectors allow both reagent and light to pass through LCW . The pH optical cell is also machined from a PEEK rod but does not require special connectors since no LCW is used.

Light source such as a high temperature tungsten lamp is connected to each optical cell. For all spectrophotometric measurements of CO2 parameters measurement precision is strongly affected by the output spectrum of the light source. A uniform output of light between 430 and 700 nm is desirable for optimal signal to noise ratios. However widely used tungsten or incandescent lamps have a limited light output at wavelengths around 430 nm absorbance maximum for the HI indicator form . Consequently an assembly employing blue and short pass filters was used to achieve an improved balance of spectral intensity between 430 and 700 nm

Electronic control system comprises of a power supply a relay board and a personal computer. Light sources spectrophotometers CTD pressure transducer for measurement of air pressure pumps and switch valves are connected to the control system. The computer controls communication with all components and logs the data from the three measurement channels. The communication interface software has a user definable interface that allows users to set up command sequences to continuously run the multi parameter flow through COsystem and store data from measurements in an automated mode. A manual user mode allows operators to initialize the system adjust light level set operation parameters and check the stability of the system.

Spectrophotometric pH measurements have been well established as a standard method for seawater COsystem measurements. Within the normal pH range of seawater dissociation of sulfonephthalein indicators HI in solution is dominated by the following equilibrium 

Equation 2 can be written in terms of pKand an indicator absorbance ratio R A A where and are the wavelengths for the absorbance maxima of HI and I 11 

For surface seawater pHdeterminations thymol blue is used for direct pH measurements whereby 435 nm and 596 nm. A third wavelength 700 nm is used to compensate for potential baseline shifts between blank and sample measurements.

For spectrophotometric fCOmeasurements the internal standard solution of the LCW comprises a NaCO indicator solution with a constant total alkalinity TA . Upon equilibration the fCOin sample waters is equal to the fCOof the internal solution CO CO 9 where subscripts ex and i refer to external samples and internal standard solution.

At equilibrium species concentrations in the internal solution are expressed in terms of the dissociation constants of carbonic acid as follows 

where Kis the Henry s Law constant. The titration alkalinity of the internal NaCO indicator solution can be written as TA 2 CO HCO I OH H 13 

Using Equation 15 fCO can be calculated from the pH of the internal solution as all other terms are constants at constant temperature.

Phenol red 434 nm 558 nm and 700 nm is used as the indicator for measurements of fCO. The fCOmeasurement system is calibrated using COgases at known concentrations. The pH of the indicator solution is determined spectrophotometrically and the L term in Equation 15 is then calculated. Since the TA of the internal solution is constant but not necessarily and accurately known sample fCOhas a linear dependence on 1 L at constant temperature 

The calibration constants a and b account for all uncertainties in Equation 15 including the absolute value of TA.

Spectrophotometric measurements of DIC using liquid core waveguides have been described previously. Water samples are acidified before measurements pH 2.7 whereupon the total CO concentration equals the DIC concentration. After the internal NaCO indicator solution attains COequilibrium with the acidified water samples across the LCW CO permeable walls the COfugacity of the acidified outer solution can be written as 

Using Equation 18 the DIC concentration is directly linked to the pH of the internal solution which can be measured spectrophotometrically with an appropriate sulfonephthalein indicator. At equilibrium with internal solution pH between 5.6 and 6.4 for DIC concentrations between 1000 and 3000 mol kg bromocresol purple BCP 432 nm 589 nm and 700 nm with a pKnear 6.5 22 is ideal for observations of pH. Within the 5.6 to 6.4 pH range the TA of the internal NaCO indicator solution can be simplified relative to Equation 13 TA HCO I H and HCO TA H I 19 

The following represents examples which illustrate procedures for practicing the invention. All proportions volumes and or concentrations were presented by way of example and should not be construed as limiting.

Sodium salts of phenol red fCO2 measurement and bromocresol purple DIC measurement Sigma Aldrich ACS Certified were dissolved in Milli Q water to make 4 8 mM indicator dye stock solutions. The indicator stock solutions were stored in opaque glass bottles at room temperature. The R ratios of the indicator stock solutions were adjusted to 1.0 with 1N NaOH or HCl solution to minimize indicator induced pH perturbations.

fCOand DIC dyes The working indicator solutions for fCOand DIC measurements were prepared from indicator stock solutions in Milli Q water within 20 L glass bottles. Final indicator concentrations in the working solutions were 2 M for both phenol red and bromocresol purple. The total alkalinity of the indicator solutions was established by addition of ultra purified NaCO J. T. Baker Ultrex Ultrapure . The final total alkalinity of the indicator solutions was near 225 and 1000 mol kgfor fCOand DIC measurements respectively. Total alkalinity values were chosen based on calculations to insure that indicator solutions were suitable for measurements with a wide range of fCOand DIC.

Finally 10 mL of 10 lauryl sulfate sodium salt solution was added to each bottle of indicator solution. Lauryl sulfate functions as a surfactant to overcome the hydrophobic properties of sulfonephthalein indicators which may create non ideal behavior in conjunction with use of Teflon AF to measure pH. The surfactant also serves to clean the LCW surfaces.

fCOand DIC reference solutions Reference solutions for fCOand DIC measurements were prepared using identical procedures but without added indicators. The working indicator and reference solutions for fCOand DIC measurements were enclosed in 4 L maximum capacity gas impermeable laminated bags Pollution Measurement Corporation before use. The bag consisted of an inner layer of Teflon FEP film and an outer layer of aluminum. The bags also eliminate light intrusion. Bagged solutions were refrigerated at 4 7 C. before use and all measurements and calibrations were performed in an air conditioned room. Under such conditions laboratory tests show that bagged solutions can last at least a month without appreciable changes of composition. The 2.5M HCl used for acidifying DIC samples was prepared by diluting concentrated HCl Baker ACS Certified with Milli Q water. This acid was stored in 500 mL glass bottles.

pH dye For pH measurements the sodium salt of thymol blue Sigma Aldrich ACS Certified was used to make working indicator solutions with concentrations between 1.5 2.0 mM. The R ratio of each indicator solution was adjusted R 0.77 to minimize the magnitude of indicator induced pH perturbations. Each pH indicator solution was stored in 500 mL gas impermeable laminated bags. No surfactant was added to these indicator solutions as it was not required in conjunction with use of PEEK tubing.

With the established sample indicator mixing ratio the final thymol blue concentration in the pH measurement cell was 2 3 M. For the pH range encountered in this work indicator perturbations were generally smaller than 0.001 which was within the precision of the instrument.

The fCOchannel was calibrated with several air balanced CO2 gas standards Airgas providing fCOvalues between 257 and 809 atm. These were initially calibrated against a high accuracy air balanced CO2 standard 454.77 0.04 atm obtained from the Climate Monitoring Division of Earth System Research Laboratory ESRL of NOAAat Boulder Colo. These calibrations were conducted using a Li COR 7000CO2 H2O analyzer with a precision better than 1.0 atm. The gas flow rate was controlled at 30 mLminusing a mass flow controller.

The fCOchannel was connected directly to each standard COgas cylinder during calibration. Each standard gas flowed through a large copper coil placed inside the thermostated water bath. The sample chamber of the fCOchannel was flushed with dry gas before calibration to remove any water vapor. The slope a and the intercept b in Eq. 16 were derived from calibrations with each batch of phenol red solution.

The DIC channel was calibrated against the Certified Reference Material CRM from Dr. A. G. Dickson at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography La Jolla Calif. to obtain the constant B in Eq. 23 for a particular batch of bromocresol purple solution. All other constants were obtained from literature.

The thymol blue used for pH measurements does not require calibration since all inherent characteristics of thymol blue have been established previously. As long as the compositions total alkalinity of the indicator solutions phenol red and bromocresol purple used for fCO2 and DIC measurements do not change re calibration is not required during field measurements. However since changes in the total alkalinity of indicator solutions can be encountered unexpectedly e.g. due to mechanically compromised reagent bags indicator solutions were periodically monitored during field measurements for consistency with laboratory calibrations. Recalibration was implemented as necessary. For the test cruise the indicator solutions for fCOand DIC measurements were checked for calibration consistency by measuring a NOAA COstandard and a DIC standard CRM just prior to embarkation and every 3 4 days during the cruise.

The initial onboard check revealed that fCOreadings were different from calibrations in the laboratory. This may have resulted from fCOindicator solution composition changes during transportation. The fCOchannel was therefore re calibrated using four COgas standards NOAA during transit to the first station. No statistically significant changes in calibration were detected for any indicator reagent bag during the cruise. Between bags however calibration consistency checks sometimes revealed 2 3 differences. It was suspected that minor contamination may have occurred when solutions were dispatched from large glass bottles to the reagent bags. In such cases the fCOchannel was fully recalibrated using four COgas standards NOAA .

During operation the interface software runs a repetitive sequence of commands to the multi parameter flow through CO2 system as summarized below 

 3 Seawater is continuously flushed through all measurement channels. For the pH channel seawater without thymol blue serves as an absorbance reference 2 min .

 4 Solenoid valves associated with the fCOand DIC reference solutions reagent solutions with no added indicators are opened. The carbon reference pump is turned on to flush reference solutions through the fCOand DIC channels 3 min .

 6 The pH dye pump is turned on and thymol blue solution is injected into the seawater sample stream 

 7 Solenoid valves associated with the fCOand DIC indicator solutions are opened. The carbon dye pump injects indicator solutions into the fCOand DIC channels. Seawater samples for pH measurements mix with thymol blue 1.5 3 min .

 8 Solenoid valves are closed. fCOand DIC samples equilibrate with the indicator solutions across the LCW 7 min .

A single measurement cycle requires about 1 hour before new references are taken for the next cycle. The current measurement frequency is 7 8 samples per hour for each parameter. It is noted that pH measurements can have much higher measurement frequency because pH indicator equilibration is instantaneous.

A lower measurement frequency for the pH channel was chosen in this example to match fCOand DIC measurement frequencies. During calibration of the phenol red solution for fCOmeasurements the fCOsample line was disconnected and rinsed with Milli Q water. COstandard gas was then passed through the sample passage external to the fCOLCW. For DIC measurements CRM instead of seawater was directed through the DIC channel for calibration of the bromocresol purple solution.

The above running sequence did not change during calibration. Switches between samples and calibration materials were made manually.

Advantageously the multi parameter flow through COsystem of the current invention consumes small quantities of samples and reagents during measurements. With the foregoing sample pump settings each measurement channel only consumes 10 mL of seawater per minute. For the indicator and reference solutions used during fCO and DIC measurements the consumption rate with the foregoing running sequence is 12 mLh. Each fCO DIC indicator or reference bag then provides 10 14 days of uninterrupted measurements. With mixing ratios of 700 for both pH measurements and acidification of DIC samples the consumption rate for HCl and pH indicator solution is 10 L min. A 500 mL bottles of HCl or pH indicator solution thus permits continuous measurements for a period of 1 month.

The invention was tested between Punta Arenas Chile and Fortaleza Brazil. The test transect was meridional from 60 S to 2 S in the western South Atlantic Ocean . A total of 121 CTD Rosette stations were occupied.

COsystem parameters for surface water were measured by different research groups using established methodseither continuously underway fCO or discretely pH DIC and TA . Table 1 summarizes the methods used and the institutions that were involved in measurements during the test.

The multi parameter flow through CO2 system was located in the hydrolab of the ship attached to the uncontaminated underway seawater line. The ship underway water pump delivered seawater at a rate of 35 40 L min. The seawater stream flowed through a 100 m long 5 cm diameter Teflon lined stainless steel tube. Transit time for the underway seawater stream between a bow intake below the water line and the instruments in the hydrolab was about 2.5 minutes. Several underway instruments operated by different institutions used underway seawater for measurements of various surface seawater parameters. Unused seawater was discharged aft of the hydrolab. The seawater sample used for the system was teed off the sample pipe used by the AOML underway pCOsystem a gas solution equilibrator connected to a Li COR 6252 infrared analyzer . For the sampling system surface seawater was pumped via insulated Tygon tubing through a plastic plate filter before entering the CTD for measurements of temperature and salinity. The sample stream was then diverted into the thermostated channels 25 C. for measurements of pH DIC and fCO.

The shipboard computing system SCS recorded underway fluorescence and thermos alinograph data obtained from a shipboard fluorometer and a thermosalinograph located in a seachest near the hull. The thermosalinograph data were used to convert our underway fCOmeasurements at 25 C. to values at in situ temperatures.

The multi parameter flow through COsystem performed well during testing. Contamination of the seawater sample line precluded comparisons with other measurements during the first half of the cruise. Even so the three seawater channels produced fCO DIC and pH measurements that were thermodynamically consistent. Data from the second half of the cruise are presented for direct comparison with other established methods.

This represents a typical meridional variation of fCOin this area under summer conditions at constant temperature 25 C. . DIC concentrations varied from 2040 to more than 2110 mol kg . DIC was strongly correlated with surface salinity data not shown . Seawater pH at 25 C. showed as expected an inverse relationship with fCOat 25 C. varying between 8.036 and 8.079 . DIC concentrations do not require corrections for comparison with discrete DIC measurements since DIC does not vary with temperature. Measurements of pH were obtained at 25 C. consistent with the measurement format of discrete pH measurements conducted independently. For fCOmeasurements temperature and water vapor corrections are required for comparison of our measurements at 25 C. with underway measurements obtained by the AOML underway system.

The AOML system uses a showerhead equilibrator to equilibrate sample water COwith headspace air. This air is then dried prior to measurement with a Li COR infrared COanalyzer. The Li COR system is calibrated using dry COgas and measures dry COgas samples. Shipboard Li COR measurements were then corrected to fCOat in situ temperature and 100 water vapor content. In contrast the fCOchannel of our multi parameter flow through COsystem directly measures seawater samples at 25 C. For both calibrations using dry gas and measurements with seawater the fCOof the internal indicator solution equals the fCOof the gas or sample water equilibrated across the LCW at 25 C. For inter comparisons with the NOAA AOML underway measurements the fCOresults were corrected from 25 C. to field temperature using the temperature factor of 0.0423 C..

After temperature correction the fCOvalues obtained were in excellent agreement with the NOAA AOML underway pCOsystem measurements . Underway DIC measurements also agreed well with discrete DIC measurements of surface water performed by the NOAA AOML . The pH measurements produced data in good agreement with the discrete pH values from surface sampling . Compared to sparse discrete surface measurements the underway measurements exhibited much more detail in the spatial variation of sea surface DIC and pH along the test track including inserts . For both DIC and pH approximately 30 autonomous measurements were obtained for each discrete measurement. In this context it is important to note that the underway DIC and pH measurements show significant temporal variation at constant latitude inserts latitudes 20.5 21.0 21.5 etc during the 3 5 hour required for profiling operations at each sampling station while only one surface measurement was obtained via discrete sampling during this time.

Since the time required for direct measurements of solution pH was negligible the overall measurement frequency of the invention depends on the equilibration time required for fCOand DIC measurements. Full equilibrium was achieved when no variation in R ratio 0.001 was observed for longer periods of equilibration. The equilibration time for fCOand DIC measurements depends on the volume of the internal indicator solution the COgradient between the sample and the indicator solution the wall thickness of the LCW capillary tubing and the equilibration temperature. High frequency measurements were desirable to generate data with high temporal resolution. Using LCWs with thin walls and small internal volumes approximately 2 minutes were required to obtain full equilibrium for a 354 atm COstandard gas . As shown in the equilibration time for fCOand DIC measurements in seawater was 5 min. An equilibration time of 7 minutes was selected to ensure full equilibration in all concentration ranges for fCOand DIC measurements in natural water.

The fCOcalibration curve shown in was linear as prescribed by Eq. 16 . Each calibration curve generates a slope and an intercept appropriate to a particular batch of indicator solution made in the laboratory. The calibrated batch solution can then be used to measure fCOsamples in the field. Such calibrations eliminate stringent requirements for the accuracy of indicator solution total alkalinity because any uncertainty in the composition of the solution was built into the calibration slope and intercept. Furthermore all other potential uncertainties such as uncertainties in thermodynamic equilibrium constants were also accommodated in the calibration process.

DIC calibration was conducted by repeated measurements of Certified Reference Materials CRM . The constant B derived using Eq. 23 was then appropriate to a particular batch of indicator alkalinity reagent solution. The uncertainty one standard deviation in the constant B was 0.0004 for DIC on the order of 2000 2150 mol kg. This was equivalent to an R ratio uncertainty of 0.001 and a DIC uncertainty of 1.9 mol kg. Similarly the uncertainties of reagent composition and thermodynamic constants were then incorporated in the B constant. No calibration was required for pH measurements since all characteristics of thymol blue have been established previously. Accurate temperature control was critical for all measurements and calibrations since all parameters were measured at a defined constant temperature. Periodic temperature observations ensure that temperature variation was smaller than 0.1 C.

The precisions of fCOand DIC measurements using the multi parameter flow through COsystem were assessed by replicate measurements of standards in the laboratory. One standard deviation of the R ratios directly measured for both fCO2 and DIC channels was on the order of 0.001. This translates into different fCO2 and DIC uncertainties along fCOand DIC gradients.

Precision decreases with increasing fCOand DIC. For example the system can achieve a precision of 0.5 atm at 370 atm fCOand approximately 1 atm at 650 atm fCO. As such the relative precision for fCOmeasurements was approximately 0.14 . For DIC measurements the precision was 1.4 mol kgfor a DIC concentration of 1740 mol kg and 2.4 at a DIC concentration of 2250 mol kg. In this case DIC measurements the relative precision was on the order of 0.09 . Such precisions for fCOand DIC measurements were comparable to the precisions of established methods. Replicate analysis indicates that the pH measurement precision of the current instrumentation was better than 0.001 pH units. This was close to the precision of well documented discrete spectrophotometric pH measurements 0.0004 obtained on research vessels.

Two approaches were used to evaluate the field precision of the underway system. In the first approach the corrected data in were smoothed by taking running averages every 5 data points . Residuals of the data relative to the running averages were then calculated to evaluate the precision of the instrument.

For the fCOchannel the mean residual of individual observations relative to the running average was 0.005 atm with a standard deviation 1 of 0.91 atm N 1503 . The DIC measurements achieved a mean residual of 0.003 mol kgwith 2.4 mol kg N 1534 . For pH measurements the mean residual and one standard deviation N 1808 were 0.0000 and 0.00083. This evaluation reflects a short term variation in the underway measurements since the running averages were taken for every 5 adjacent data points within an hour . For the second approach the residuals relative to the mean of the underway measurements were calculated at each station where the ship was stationary 3 5 h . The assumption in this approach is that surface seawater does not experience appreciable changes for the three measured parameters during the time at stations. The mean residuals for fCO DIC and pH calculated using this approach were 0.004 0.95 atm N 740 0.03 3.2 mol kg 1 N 787 and 0.0000 0.0011 pH units N 894 respectively.

The first approach yielded slightly better precisions for all three measurements probably because it uses short term averages. If averages are taken for a longer period of time natural temporal and spatial variations for these measured parameters may contribute to an appearance of decreasing precision. Although both evaluations reveal that the field precisions of fCO2 and DIC measurements are somewhat lower than those achieved under laboratory conditions they still exhibit high sensitivity and are comparable to other established shipboard methods Table 1 .

The pH measurements achieved a precision of near 0.001 which is in excellent agreement with laboratory evaluations and compares favorably with other shipboard and in situ pH measurements.

Field measurement accuracies were accessed by directly comparing the differences between the data and data obtained by NOAA AOML and the University of Miami using established methods . The different data sets were coordinated based on time stamps to form data pairs. A weak periodic trend of fCOresiduals is observed in . Further exploration of the trend did not reveal any significant association between fCOresiduals and known potential causative factors e.g. temperature corrections and calibration schedule . In general indicates that residuals between the underway measurements and the AOML and UM measurements do not show substantial systematic trends. This suggests that any systematic errors in the measurements of fCO DIC and pH are minor Based on the assessment shown in the fCOmeasurements differed from theAOMLunderway measurements by a mean of 1.0 atm with 2.5 atm N 947 . For DIC and pH mean differences between the measurements and discrete measurements were 2.2 6.0 DIC one standard deviation mol kg N 64 and 0.0012 0.0042 pH one standard deviation N 68 . These assessments demonstrate that the multi parameter flow through COsystem can provide fCO DIC and pH measurements that are in excellent agreement with existing standard methods. Table 2 summarizes all major characteristics and features of the current system.

The underway measurements of fCOand DIC used calibration standards identical to those used in discrete DIC measurements and non dispersive IR measurements of fCO identical CRM and COstandard gases . The agreement between the flow through measurements and the conventional fCOand DIC measurements discussed above is thus an expression of flow through system accuracy defined in terms of consistency with established methods used in the field. For pH measurements different indicators were used for flow through measurements thymol blue and discrete measurements m cresol purple . This implies that the pH offset 0.0012 0.0042 in includes contributions from independent calibrations of the two indicators.

The field precisions of the fCO DIC and pH measurements estimated using the two discussed methods are about one half of the field agreement ranges calculated by directly comparing the measurements with other established measurements Table 2 . The measurement variability resulting from the instruments inherent noise therefore only accounts for 50 of the variability observed in . The rest of the variability or uncertainty of the measurements depicted in may be attributable to various external sources. Coordinating the measurements with other measurements to make comparisons generates uncertainty for all three measurements due to potential mismatches of time.

For DIC and pH measurements the system measured the underway water pumped from the bow of the ship while discrete measurements obtained water samples from CTD Rosette casts. Measurement of different samples adds uncertainty to data comparisons. A few data from the discrete pH measurements were considerably scattered relative to the underway pH measurements . Observed differences were greater than 0.01 pH units. For these data however no apparent discrepancies were observed for either fCOor DIC measurements and . Moreover thermodynamic calculation indicates that pH calculated from underway DIC and fCOmeasurements did not show large pH scatter at these points. As such it is believed that sampling analysis errors during discrete pH measurements contributed to the observed differences.

Temperature corrections are required for comparison of the fCOdataset 25 C. with the AOML dataset in situ temperature . For the shipboard versus in situ temperature differences encountered 0.2 3.6 C. a temperature correction of 0.0423 0.0002 C. 1 would introduce 

Thermodynamic calculations using underway measurements of fCO DIC and pH were performed to examine the internal consistency of paired measurements. DIC pH and DIC fCOdata pairs were used to calculate TA via the COSYS program http cdiac.ornl.gov oceans co2rprt.html of E. Lewis D. W. R. Wallace and K. M. Johnson Brookhaven National Laboratory NY . Results are presented in . The calculated TA from either the USF DIC pH pair or the USF DIC fCO2 pair is in good agreement with the UM discrete measurements .

A mean difference of 3.0 3.2 mol kgwith a standard deviation of 6.8 6.9 mol kgwas obtained in this comparison. Residuals between discrete TA measurements and calculated TA values did not show a significant trend data not shown . Thus observed differences between measured and calculated TA were consistent throughout the test. The deviations of calculated TA values from discrete measurements in reflect a combined influence of measurement variations and imperfections in thermodynamic models.

It will be seen that the advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained and since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween. Now that the invention has been described 

