---

title: Interchangeable preconcentrator connector assembly
abstract: An interchangeable preconcentrator assembly comprises an outer housing and an inner housing defining a chamber. A biased urging member is held at least partially within the outer housing and slidably biased toward a surface of the inner housing. When the biased urging member is at least partially retracted, a space is defined between the urging member and the surface of the inner housing for accommodating at least one preconcentrator chip. A continuous fluid flow path is defined through the outer housing and through the space. The interchangeable preconcentrator assembly may further comprise at least one modular preconcentrator carriage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08178045&OS=08178045&RS=08178045
owner: University of Louisville Research Foundation, Inc.
number: 08178045
owner_city: Louisville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081217
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 007 873 filed Dec. 17 2007 under 35 U.S.C. 119 which is incorporated by reference herein.

This invention was made with Government support under DoJ NIJ 2004 IJ CXK055. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

A field of the invention is analyte collection. The invention may be useful for example in analyte detection and analysis systems and methods as might be used for the collection detection and analysis of a wide range of vapors or gases particulate and liquid bound analytes.

Analyte detection is becoming increasingly important as a security and safety measure. Transportation commercial government educational and other facilities have a need for the sensitive and rapid detection of analytes such as those that are indicative of explosives or other substances that pose a threat. In addition in industrial residential and commercial settings analyte detection can provide warning of particles that pose a health or safety risk. Example analytes to be detected include for example hazardous materials including explosive related materials toxic industrial chemicals TICS narcotics or chemical or biological agents.

Analysis instruments have been developed and are under development to meet the needs for detection of analytes. A nonlimiting example analysis instrument that is currently used in portable and larger forms is the Ion Mobility Spectrometer IMS such as the GE VaporTrace models. Speed and sensitivity are primary concerns in any such instruments. Researchers and manufacturers seek to improve the sensitivity of such analysis instruments.

A typical IMS device has separate particle and vapor modes. In particle mode an assembly is affixed to the device to accept and desorb particles from a substrate such as a swab for example during baggage screening. The swab is inserted into the assembly is heated to desorb any collected particulates and the particulates are directed via vacuum into the instrument for analysis. Another assembly can be affixed to the device for vapor mode in which the device collects vapors for analyte detection. This mode for example is commonly used to sample contained areas such as automobile trunks at the entrances to military facilities.

Preconcentrators offer the opportunity to enhance the performance of any type of analysis instrument by increasing the concentration of analyte in a volume of fluid sent for analysis. Generally preconcentrators collect analyte over a period of time during absorption and then provide a concentrated fluid stream to the analysis device during desorption . Desorption requires rapid heating and microscale preconcentrators accordingly have advantages regarding thermal cycling and desorption since heating for accomplishing desorption can be conducted quickly and with low power.

Microscale preconcentrators are disclosed in Manginell et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 527 835 entitled Chemical Preconcentrator with Integral Thermal Flow Sensor and in Manginell et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 171 378 entitled Chemical Preconcentrator. The chemical preconcentrator used in that work is formed from a substrate having a suspended membrane such as low stress silicon nitride. This work incorporates a flow over design.

Successful microscale preconcentrators with a flow through design are disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20050095722 incorporated by reference herein published May 5 2005 and entitled Microscale Flow Through Sorbent Plate Collection Device and in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20050226778 published Oct. 13 2005 and entitled Microscale Flow Through Sorbent Plate Collection Device . The flow through design has a number of advantages one of which is increasing contact between the analyte fluid flow and the sorbent in the collection area compared to typical flow over designs that would require creating a turbulent flow to match the level of analyte fluid sorbent contact.

Lacking in the art is a practical and reliable interface that can easily and efficiently integrate a microscale preconcentrator with analysis instruments. A macroscale assembly for a large screen style preconcentrator has been developed and published by researchers at Sandia National Laboratories. See Overview of Explosives Detection Research and in Development 16Annual NDIA Security Technology Symposium Exhibition Jun. 26 29 2000 John E. Parmeter David W. Hannun Kevin L. Linker and Charles L. Rhykerd. This technology includes a large screen a few inches in diameter that accepts fluid e.g. air flow through a large round opening and concentrated explosive molecules partners via adsorption on the pleated screen. A custom block assembly attaches the preconcentrator to an IMS device.

According to example embodiments of the present invention an interchangeable preconcentrator assembly is provided. An example interchangeable preconcentrator assembly comprises an outer housing and an inner housing defining a chamber. A biased urging member is held at least partially within the outer housing and slidably biased toward a surface of the inner housing. When the biased urging member is at least partially retracted a space is defined between the urging member and the surface of the inner housing for accommodating at least one preconcentrator chip. A continuous fluid flow path is defined through the outer housing and through the space.

The interchangeable preconcentrator assembly may further comprise at least one modular preconcentrator carriage. An example modular preconcentrator carriage comprises a microscale preconcentrator chip including a plurality of throughholes and a heater for heating a surface of the chip and first and second plates at least partially enclosing the chip. At least one electrode is coupled to the heater and extends beyond the first and second plates.

Example embodiments of the invention provide among other things an interchangeable preconcentrator connector assembly that permits rapid sequential insertion and removal of packaged analytical microscale preconcentrators into a stacked formation to focus or preconcentrate a desired sample of vapors and or particles prior to desorption into a storage or analysis instrument. The analytical preconcentrators are microscale preconcentrators held in a protective carriage that includes electrodes for connection to a control circuit. A biased member in the assembly pushes against one or more inserted preconcentrator s held within a space provided within an outer housing to align and secure them such that fluid flow will be primarily through the preconcentrators from an inlet to the assembly. Valves in the assembly allow flows for preconcentration that are independent from flows of analysis instrument.

An example assembly of the invention can be configured to attach to different analysis instruments. A nonlimiting example application of an assembly of the invention is for attaching to an ion mobility spectrometer IMS . Thus a nonlimiting example embodiment of the invention is configured to attach to an IMS or be formed as part of the IMS. An example assembly accepts a number as an example up to 5 though this number can be lower or higher carriages containing microscale preconcentrators. An urging member and biasing member arrangement in a preferred embodiment is biased against the cartridges to accept them hold them and permit removal while also limiting flow to be primarily through the preconcentrators. With the example stacked arrangement a significant increase in sample signal sensitivity can potentially be achieved and the assembly permits the interchanging replacement and rearranging of packaged preconcentrators. The example assembly accepts one or more carriages containing preconcentrators as modules permitting readily the addition and or removal of preconcentrator chips to reach desired sensitivity levels and or to concentrate or exclude particular analytes. The nature of testing to be conducted can be changed on the fly with a simple change of preconcentrator chip s .

Preferred embodiments will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic figures that are not to scale which will be fully understood by skilled artisans with reference to the accompanying description. Features may be exaggerated for purposes of illustration. From the preferred embodiments artisans will recognize additional features and broader aspects of the invention. While example embodiments will be described as configured for an IMS an assembly of the invention could also be configured to attach for example to any suitable analyzer such as but not limited to a gas chromatography column or other analytical instrument. The example connector assembly is configured to attach to or be an integral part of a storage or analysis instrument.

An example embodiment interchangeable preconcentrator assembly of the invention is shown in and shows an exploded view of the assembly. Within the assembly at least one disk shaped preconcentrator carriage and preferably a plurality of carriages are accepted under bias supplied by an urging member such as but not limited to a plunger which in turn is biased by a biasing member such as but not limited to a spring . The plunger and the spring together provide biasing via spring loading for maintaining position of the preconcentrator carriages . A tube portion of the plunger includes an opening completely there through to provide an inlet for a continuous fluid flow path through the assembly including through the microscale preconcentrator carriages . However it is also contemplated that the fluid flow path may be around or adjacent to the urging member in other embodiments and in this case a substantially hollow tube portion may not be necessary. Preferably the plunger is comprised of a material with high thermal capacity and conductivity and maintains constant bias on the installed stacked preconcentrators via a spring such as spring .

A flex circuit e.g. a polyimide thin film flex board used for external device powering is inserted between the front outer plate and the microscale preconcentrator chip and is bonded to the preconcentrator chip prior to final assembly of the carriage to enable connection to integral resistive heater traces on the microscale preconcentrator chips. The example flex circuit includes e.g. printed thereon one or more electrical connections to resistive heaters included in the microscale preconcentrator chip. Contact electrodes for example formed on the flex circuit e.g. printed on a rear side of the flex circuit extend beyond the front and back outer plates and thus are exposed so that the heating for the adsorption and desorption cycles of the preconcentrators can be selectively controlled. Similarly the flow can be controlled via valves independently from an analysis instrument to which the assembly is electrically connected. An opening preferably aligned with the opening is provided in the flex circuit to allow fluid flow therethrough. The front outer plate also includes an opening aligned with the openings for allowing fluid flow.

In an example embodiment the plunger includes a head at one end of the tube . The head which may be formed integrally with or coupled to the tube includes a front surface for contacting and longitudinally constraining the spring and an engaging surface for engaging the front plate of one of the preconcentrator carriages . An extension is preferably provided either as an integral part of or a separate part connected to the head for supporting the contact electrodes when the assembly is completed. The extension also provides a handle to move the plunger within the assembly .

To enclose the assembly and provide an inner chamber for the preconcentrator carriages a generally cylindrical outer housing and a generally cylindrical inner housing are provided. The inner housing preferably provided at the rear of the assembly includes a plate having a generally circular surface for engaging a surface of the back plate of one of the carriages . This surface includes a throughhole providing a continuous fluid flow path. In this way when the plunger is at least partially retracted e.g. moved towards the front of the assembly against the bias of the spring a space is defined between the plunger for example the surface of the plunger and the surface of the plate for accommodating the preconcentrator carriages . Due to the opening in the tube the fluid flow is continuous through the plunger through this space and thus through any preconcentrator chips within the space and through the throughhole in the inner surface . Throughholes formed in the plate allow for fasteners to attach the plate to the outer housing . Additionally the plate includes a lead in e.g. a chamfer machined in the inner housing for accepting the carriages as they are inserted into the assembly . A wedge is provided at an end of the extension to also provide a lead in. The lead in and or the wedge in the example embodiment allow the carriages to be inserted into the assembly and accordingly retract the plunger without first needing to separately retract the plunger.

A circular flange is provided on the outside of the inner housing to engage an inner surface of a threaded ring which is placed around the outer surface of the outer housing . The threaded ring includes threads for connecting the assembly to an inlet of an analysis device. To provide independent valve operation of the assembly the inner housing may include one or more openings for receiving one or more valves .

The inner housing is preferably formed of a material with high thermal capacity and conductivity such that the assembly can be used as a heat source for scavenging heat from the analysis instrument to which it is connected. This scavenged heat can be used to keep the assembly at an elevated temperature to prevent any sample vapors and or particles from attaching to exposed internal flow surfaces during collection detection.

The outer housing surrounds the inner housing and provides a generally cylindrical outer surface for the assembly . The outer housing is preferably formed from a low thermal conductivity material such as PEEK to act as a thermal insulation layer to minimize out gassing and to enclose the entire stacked preconcentrator assembly with an adequate seal that prevents the sample fluid air from escaping. A front plate of the outer housing includes an opening for slidingly engaging the tube portion of the plunger so that when assembled the tube portion extends through the opening best shown in . When assembled in this way the spring is seated in a cylinder formed between the head of the plunger and the bottom of the outer housing carriage sleeve. For accommodating the flex electrodes the extension and the valve if used the outer housing includes a generally T shaped slot along the cylindrical outer surface . The slot has a longitudinally extending part for accepting the extension and permits longitudinal movement of the flex electrodes and the extension within the T shaped slot while maintaining alignment of the plunger within the assembly . A laterally wider part of the T shaped slot surrounds one or more of the flex electrodes one or more of which may instead be surrounded by the longitudinally extending part if the plunger is moved forward to a large extent and accommodates the valve extending from the inner housing . To accommodate the other valve another longitudinally extending slot may be provided.

To construct the assembly one or more of the preconcentrator carriages may be prepared by for example bonding the flex circuit to the preconcentrator chip placing the flex circuit and the microscale preconcentrator chip on the outer seat of the back outer plate such that the preconcentrator chip is placed into the inner seat and snap fitting the front outer plate into the inner seat of the back outer plate. These preconcentrator carriages may be selected configured and or assembled when constructing the overall assembly or at any prior time. Further the preconcentrator carriages may be assembled at a different location than the overall assembly and then selected for use.

The rest of the assembly may be constructed by inserting the tube portion of the plunger through the spring and then through the opening of the outer housing . The threaded ring is placed around the inner housing and the inner housing is inserted into the outer housing . The valves are inserted into the inner housing via the openings . The throughhole formed in the plate allow fasteners to attach the plate to the outer housing .

The assembly can incorporate seals at points as a further limitation of flows to direct flow during collection primarily through the microscale preconcentrator chips and the appropriate valves . Nonlimiting example points include between carriages between the plunger and the carriages etc.

To load the assembled spring loaded housing assembly the packaged preconcentrator microscale carriages are sequentially dispensed into the assembly for example using a pair of tweezers forceps by sliding the packaged preconcentrator microscale carriages between the plunger lead in plate of the extension loaded by the spring and the surface of the lead in that is machined into the inner housing . The configuration of the carriages including the general disk shape the outer surface of the outer plate and the flex circuit in combination with the longitudinal slot of the outer housing permits sliding movement of the carriages within the outer housing while maintaining alignment of the carriages. Further the example configuration of the outer housing and more particularly the longitudinal slot combined with the extension of the plunger allows similar sliding movement of the plunger within the outer housing. Releasing the plunger slidingly urges the plunger against the preconcentrator microscale carriages to hold them in place aligned with the fluid flow path created by the opening of the outer housing tube opening and opening of the inner housing .

Referring now to shown are schematic cross section views illustrating adsorption and desorption flows of the example assembly of . In the absorption mode shown in sample fluid air passes through a stack of unheated analytical preconcentrators collecting desired vapors and or particles. At this time a valve to an analysis device such as but not limited to an IMS valve is closed and the exhaust valve e.g. valve is open permitting the fluid air to egress the system. During desorption mode shown in sample fluid air continues to pass through the stack of now heated analytical preconcentrators desorbing the desired vapors and or particles. The exhaust valve is closed and the analysis device valve is open permitting the fluid air to enter the analysis device for detection.

Referring now to the complete assembly may be connected to an analysis device such as but not limited to an IMS analysis device using the threaded ring . shows an experimental embodiment of the assembly attached to a GE Vapor Trace IMS analysis device. Connecting the assembly to the analysis device in this manner provides a portable collection and analysis device.

Assemblies of the invention provide a number of advantages that will be recognized by artisans in view of the preceding description of the invention. A few examples will be discussed while artisans will appreciate the more general included use of the inventive assembly . The example assembly readily permits stacking changing and or replacement of one or a group of preconcentrator chips to focus analyte particles e.g. explosive particles at the inlet of an explosive detection system that can be retrofitted to existing detection equipment including for example HVAC systems in a place of high public use i.e. shopping malls sporting arenas amphitheaters museums etc. Another nonlimiting example implementation of the assembly provides an interface to stack a group of preconcentrator chips that focus on explosive particles and inherently explosive vapors at the inlet of an explosive detection system that is placed inside a cargo shipping in flight container. A further example of implementation is as an interface to stack a group of preconcentrator chips that focus explosive particles and explosive vapors at the inlet of an explosive detection system that is placed inside waste disposal containers for the detection of potential explosive devices in or on public streets. An additional example implementation is as an implementation to stack a group of preconcentrator chips that focus particles in the slow flow of drinking water to detect heavy metals and or other harmful compounds. Further example implementations include implementation in explosives narcotics chemical heavy metal and biological detection systems to increase sensitivity of the detected sample signal.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

