---

title: Article storage system with closely-coupled, article-specific display
abstract: Logic is included in a piece of active storage furniture such that the active storage furniture integrates articles stored thereby into a representation of information about those articles. The logic includes (i) sensors to identify individual articles stored by the furniture and respective locations of the articles and (ii) display elements capable of incorporating selected individual ones of the articles as separate and individual components of a collective representation of information about the selected articles. In response to queries about the articles, the articles themselves are integrated into a representation of information about the articles. For example, a wine rack includes RFID and LEDs in each of a number of storage cells or cubbies and illuminates each cubby according to information about the wine stored in the cubby in response to a query for such information (e.g., show me all wine color-coded by region).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08604908&OS=08604908&RS=08604908
owner: ThingM Corporation
number: 08604908
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080115
---
The present invention relates generally to ubiquitous computing products to embedded computer system displays and to furniture for storage of articles and more specifically to a display system for displaying characteristics of articles stored by storage furniture wherein the display system is embedded in the storage furniture.

Relevant information about some articles is often not obvious from the articles themselves yet may be very important in making a good choice among them. This information often exists in databases or similar information stores but it is difficult to access it at the moment a decision needs to be made.

Even when accessible such information is often overwhelming making useful comparison of information regarding available articles impracticable. Such is particularly true of collections of similar yet distinct articles making distinctions between the articles not readily discernible.

For example selecting a wine from a wine rack requires knowing a lot about each bottle of wine which regions and varietals go particularly or even just acceptably well with a particular meal which bottles carry which recommendations of experts which bottles are currently considered ready to drink etc. . Even when armed with such information merely locating one or more bottles of wine with the desired characteristics can be a significant challenge in large wine cellars.

What is needed is a more tightly coupled nexus between information about articles in a collection and the articles themselves.

In accordance with the present invention logic is included in a piece of active storage furniture such that the active storage furniture integrates articles stored thereby into a representation of information about those articles. The logic includes i sensors to identify individual articles stored by the furniture and respective locations of the articles and ii display elements capable of incorporating selected individual ones of the articles as separate and individual components of a collective representation of information about the selected articles.

For example a piece of active storage furniture can be a wine rack that includes a number of storage cells or cubbies for storing individual bottles of wine. The cubbies in turn include a sensor for identifying a bottle of wine stored in the cubby and a display element for presenting that piece of a collection representation of information corresponding to the particular bottle of wine stored in the cubby. One example of such a sensor is an RFID reader to read an RFID tag affixed to the bottle of wine. One example of such a display element is a set of red green and blue LEDs that are collectively controlled to produce any of a wide variety of colors color patterns and or blinking patterns. The LEDs are positioned toward the back of the cubbies to illuminate not only the entire cubby but the bottle stored therein as well.

Information regarding the wines stored in the wine rack is accumulated into a database that associates such information with the respective RFID tags affixed to the respective bottles. Such information can be provided manually by a local user and or collected from remote sources through a wide area network such as the Internet.

Knowing the cubby in which each bottle of wine is stored by the wine rack and being able to control a display characteristic effected by each cubby individually information about multiple bottles of wine can be displayed at one a mosaic of colors and patterns thereby integrating the bottles of wine themselves into a representation of information about the bottles of wine.

The result is a very useful and intuitive conversation between the user and the wine rack Show me my wines by region. Show me only the region of Napa Valley. Show those wines by price categories. Show me those wines in the medium price category by varietal. The colors and or patterns change in response to each query and the user immediately knows which wine to select and where it is.

In accordance with the present invention active storage furniture uses articles stored therein as integral components of display of information about the articles themselves.

In this illustrative embodiment the articles are bottles of wine and active storage furniture is a wine rack. Accordingly active storage furniture is sometimes referred to herein as wine rack .

Wine rack includes a number of cubbies into each of which one bottle of wine can be stored. Thus in effect each of cubbies defines a discrete location at which a single bottle of wine can be stored. Such facilitates identification and location of each bottle of wine of a collection in a manner described more completely below. While wine rack shows sixteen 16 cubbies for storage of up to sixteen 16 bottles of wine it should be appreciated that wine rack can have fewer or more many more than sixteen 16 cubbies. In fact as the number of cubbies is increased to hundreds of thousands the advantages realized by wine rack become very important.

Each of cubbies includes against a back wall not shown an active display component which is described more completely below. Briefly each display component includes a sensor to sense the presence of and identify a particular bottle of wine and a display element to associate a user perceptible display effect with the bottle of wine. In this illustrative embodiment display element includes a red LED R a green LED G and a blue LED B to illuminate a corresponding one of cubbies with any of a number of colors.

Examples of information displays producible by wine rack are shown in . In response to a query to show wines categorized by region wine rack illuminates cubbies storing bottles of wine with colors corresponding to the region from which each bottle of wine hails. In this illustrative example wines hailing from Napa Valley in California are illuminated in magenta wines hailing from the Bordeau region of France are illuminated in cyan wines hailing from Italy are illuminated in green and so on. The user has immediate intuitive access to all information about wines stored in wine rack without requiring any translation from database query results stored in a conventional representation e.g. textually to identification of individual bottles of wine or painstakingly careful sorted organized and or labeled storage of bottles within wine rack .

In the user has asked for display of a subset of the previous set of results asking that only wines hailing from Napa Valley of California be identified. Wines hailing from elsewhere are no longer illuminated by wine rack .

In the user has asked to see price categories of the currently displayed wines. In response wine rack illuminates each of the wines that were illuminated in with a color corresponding to a price category.

Even in a wine rack with only sixteen 16 cubbies the user can select precisely the perfect wine in seconds with just a few thoughts about the type of wine to select. Of particular importance is the natural intuitive manner in which the user receives the information the queries are generally of the form show me . . . and in response the user is shown literally and directly.

The user s experience contrasts sharply with conventional methods of locating a wine of interest. One conventional method is the trial and error method of pulling one bottle from its cubby at a time and looking at the label and or price tag. Even with the simple progressive narrowing query illustrative in mental notes are notoriously ill suited for recording members of successively smaller sub collections until a wine is selected. Such often requires multiple iterations of pulling each bottle from a conventional passive wine rack.

Even when armed with information pulled from a computerized database finding the wine in a conventional passive wine rack involves a trial and error pulling of wine bottles from the rack e.g. is this bottle the 2000 Harlan Estate Cabernet Sauvignon or not . Regardless of the computing power behind selecting a bottle of wine the translation of information representing a selected wine to physical identification of a bottle of the selected wine is still in conventional systems a manual process.

Driving the display of wine rack is a collection information processing unit . Collection information processing unit is a general purpose computer programmed and or configured i to store manage and process information about wine entered by the user through a user interface and or retrieved from other information sources e.g. through the Internet ii to store manage and process information about individual bottles of wine stored in wine rack and iii to respond to queries of the user entered through user interface producing a responsive display through wine rack and user interface .

In this illustrative embodiment collection information processing unit is physically integrated into wine rack so as to be invisible to the user and user interface is a portable handheld computer a Nokia 770 Web Tablet to be precise to allow the user to carry a full feature rich graphical user interface experience in her hand. Collection information processing unit and user interface device communicate with one another wirelessly through any of the 802.11 wireless networking protocols and or through Bluetooth wireless inter device communications.

It should be appreciated that the allocation of functions between collection information processing unit and user interface device is largely arbitrary. Many of the functions of collection information processing unit described more completely below can be implemented within user interface device . In fact all functionality of collection information processing unit but the direct control of and interaction with active display components e.g. active display component of wine rack can be implemented by user interface device . The entirety of user interface device can be implemented within collection information processing unit . For example a touch sensitive screen directly attached to and integrated with wine rack can provide the user with a graphical user interface by which to browse information regarding wines generally and those stored in wine rack . Alternatively collection information processing unit can implement a speech based user interface incorporating known speech to text and text to speech methods. In this speech based user interface the user literally and orally asks to be shown and in a very literal and direct sense is shown. The user s experience is exactly that of speaking to wine rack and observing wine rack itself respond to the spoken request.

It is preferred that as little of the computing hardware as possible is noticeable to the user. Preferably the user perceives herself to be communicating directly with wine rack . While collection information processing unit performs a useful function as described herein seeing collection information processing unit itself does not directly enhance the user s experience in selecting a bottle of wine from wine rack .

Collection information processing unit can also include input and or output devices such as user input devices such as keyboards pointing devices like mice trackballs tablets and touchpads microphones and cameras display devices such as LCD displays video projectors printers and loudspeakers and peripheral data storage devices. User interface device can connect to collection information processing unit as one of input output devices through a Bluetooth inter device wireless connection.

Collection information processing unit includes active furniture controller coupled to processor and memory through interconnect . Active furniture controller receives and serves requests from processor in accordance with instructions executing therein from memory i to illuminate one or more individual cubbies wine rack in respective specific manners and ii to identify which if any bottle of wine is in each of one or more cubbies . The manner in which active furniture controller serves such requests is described more completely below.

Collection information processing unit includes network access circuitry through which collection information processing unit can communicate over a network such as the Internet a local area network LAN a public switch telephone network PSTN and in some embodiments to user interface device .

Memory stores collection information processing logic a display interface a user interface a collection database and a network information agent . Collection information processing logic display interface user interface and network information agent are each all or part of one or more computer processing executing in processor from memory . Collection database is a database stored in memory .

Collection information processing logic defines the overall general behavior of collection information processing unit . Such behavior encompasses primarily maintaining information about articles of a collection stored in wine rack in collection database and responding to queries for such information received from user interface device and responding to such queries by controlling the collective display presented by wine rack .

Display interface is the API application programming interface by which collection information processing logic interacts with active furniture controller to thereby determine which bottles of wine are current stored in which respective cubbies in a manner described below and to thereby control the collective display presented by wine rack .

User interface implements the interface by which collection information processing logic interacts with the user through user interface device and or input output devices . In this illustrative embodiment user interface device includes a touch sensitive screen through which the user can compose a query of collection database . Prompts are displayed for the user on the touch sensitive screen and physical pressing of the screen by the user generates data representing a particular location within the touch sensitive screen touched by the user. User interface device interprets user input gestures from such signals to compose a database query. Such interpretation and composition of database queries through a graphical user interface is conventional and well known. Upon a user input gesture so directing user input device transmits a user composed database query to collection information processing logic through user interface .

User interface also sends information to user interface device to assist the user in interpreting the various colors and possibly other display characteristics of wine rack . In effect the touch sensitive screen of user input device can serve as a legend of wine rack e.g. associating textual descriptions of the characteristics with the various colors Napa Valley wines juxtaposed with a small magenta box shape to show wines illuminated in magenta are from Napa Valley for example .

Collection database stores information about each and every article of the collection stored in active storage furniture in this illustrative embodiment about each and every bottle of wine stored in wine rack . The particular organization and types of information stored in collection database is not particular important so long as the information is helpful to the user. A number of wine organization databases and accompanying database management programs currently exist one example of which is the wineBOSS cellar management application available from wineBOSS.com. Except as otherwise noted herein such conventional database organizations and management mechanisms are suitable for use with collection database .

Network information agent requests and or receives information about articles represented in collection database through one or more networks such as the Internet on behalf of collection information processing logic . To the extent information about such articles is available through networks accessible to collection information processing unit network information agent can request and receive such information. For example Wine.com Inc. currently supports XML formatted queries of its wine database and returns results in an RSS compliant XML format. Network information agent can be configured to periodically query one or more such remote databases for information about the particular wines stored in wine rack and to provide any collected responsive information to collection information processing logic for storage in collection database .

In some embodiments network information agent receives information initiated remotely e.g. from friends acquaintances and or experts about wines represented in collection database according to a push paradigm. Network information agent forwards any such received information to collection information processing logic for storage in collection database .

As noted briefly above wine rack is both an input device and an output device. As an input device wine rack senses which bottles of wine are positioned within which respective cubbies . As an output device wine rack illuminates respective ones of cubbies according to the particular bottles of wine stored in each an according to information about each bottle stored in collection database .

As described above each of cubbies includes as part of its back wall a display component which in turn includes a sensor . In this illustrative embodiment sensor is an RFID radio frequency identifier reader that reads an RFID tag affixed to the bottom of each wine bottle stored in wine rack . RFID tag is affixed to bottle on semi circular card adhered to the bottom of bottle . The semi circular shape of card allows one to insert a thumb into punt of bottle for serving of wine from bottle in the proper hoity toity fashion.

When bottle is inserted into a particular cubby of wine rack RFID tag is pushed into relatively close proximity with sensor . Sensor can then sense and identify RFID tag and send data through active furniture controller and display interface to collection information processing logic . In response collection information processing logic records the location of bottle within wine rack in collection database .

The original nexus between RFID tag and information about bottle stored in collection database is provided by the user in this illustrative embodiment. When the user acquires bottle the user enters information about the wine in bottle into collection database through user interface and collection information processing logic using conventional human machine interface techniques involving physical manipulation of input output devices and or user interface device . Included in the information entered by the user is data identifying RFID tag such that collection information processing logic can correlate information about bottle entered by the user and data representing RFID tag as sensed by sensor and received from wine rack .

In an alternative embodiment RFID tag is writable and collection information processing logic assigns a unique identifier to bottle generally contemporaneously with entry of information about the wine in bottle by the user and writes the unique identifier to RFID tag for subsequent recognition by wine rack . The unique identifier is only required to be unique among identifiers assigned to other bottles by collection information processing logic . In one embodiment collection information processing logic causes user interface to instruct the user to place card in close proximity to an RFID writer not shown for writing of the unique identifier to RFID tag . Such an RFID writer can also read RFID tag and can be used as an input output device allowing the user to do no more than present a bottle of wine as a database query of the form show me more wines like this one. 

In an alternative embodiment sensor can write the unique identifier to RFID tag when bottle is placed in the cubby in which sensor is positioned. In this latter embodiment the user can simply provide data representing the location of bottle i.e. identifying one of cubbies through user interface to collection information processing logic . In response collection information processing logic causes sensor to write the unique identifier to RFID tag while inside wine rack . Preferably collection information processing logic prompts the user to both verify the location of bottle and to confirm the desire to write to RFID tag before doing so.

Reading of RFID tag by sensor can be somewhat challenging. In this illustrative embodiment RFID tag is a passive RFID tag. Currently available active and semi passive RFID tags can be read from as far away as 100 or even 300 feet. With such long range a single sensor could read RFID tags of each and every bottle in wine rack making determination of the location of each of those bottles very difficult. Even passive RFID tags can be read as far away as 20 feet.

Reading RFID tags in all cubbies of wine rack to determine locations of individual bottles therein requires emitting RF electromagnetic energy from each sensor of each and every cubby of wine rack in sufficient amounts to power each and every RFID tag such that each RFID can emit a responsive RF signal. The result is an RF cacophony in which many sensors receive responsive RF signals from multiple RFID tags and that some RF signals interfere with one another such that some responsive RF signals from RFID tags are received by no sensor despite the close proximity of such sensors.

Collection information processing unit take advantage of the fact that in digital logic and computer time standards wine bottles wait very patiently in cubbies for what seems like an eternity. Thus like a patient vintner collection information processing unit checks the contents of cubbies one at a time taking a very slow and methodical approach to determining which wines are in which cubbies.

In this illustrative embodiment collection information processing unit cause sensor of only one of cubbies to be active at any one time. Sensor is calibrated to provide just enough electromagnetic energy to reliably power RFID tag when within about 4 8 inches of sensor . In addition lining the interior of each of cubbies with a conductive grounded screen can reduce overflow of electromagnetic energy from sensor to a neighboring cubby. Accordingly at most one RFID tag should respond to one sensor .

In large wine cellars sensors of distant cubbies can be operated simultaneous without interference with one another. In other words sensors in different regions of a large wine cellar or of a large wine rack can be operated simultaneously so long as only one sensor from each region is operated at a time.

In some instances one or more sensors in respective cubbies of wine rack can receive responsive RF signals from multiple RF tags. A number of techniques can be applied to resolve such ambiguity and identify the one RFID tag corresponding to the sensor. In one embodiment sensor detects receipt of multiple responsive RF signals and or a collision of responsive RF signals and in response thereto reinitiates sensing RFID tags with less power. The process can be reiterated until only a single responsive RF signal is received.

In an alternative embodiment sensor measures the strength of the respective responsive RF signals and selects the RFID tag whose responsive RF signal is the strongest. In another alternative embodiment sensor measures the strength of the respective responsive RF signals and sends data representing the multiple responsive RF signals and their respective signal strengths. Armed with such information from multiple sensors from the various cubbies of wine rack collection information processing unit can resolve ambiguity among signals received from neighboring sensors.

As an output device wine rack includes a number of cubbies each of which in turn includes a display component such as display component and accordingly a display element such as display element . Collection information processing unit instructs each display element such as display element to display a particular color expressed as levels of intensity with which LEDs R G and B are to be illuminated.

Collection information processing unit can also specify other display characteristics to be rendered by display element . For example one display characteristic can be a blinking pattern expressed as a timed sequence of toggling of the display of a particular color. The blinking can be abrupt or can fade in and out at a rate specified by collection information processing unit . Similarly a display characteristic can be a timed sequence of colors. When not being used to communicate information responsive to a user s query collection information processing unit can control the display elements of wine rack to produce some clever and or entertaining displays. For example each of cubbies can blink so as to spell out the name or other information of the cubby s contents in Morse code one at a time or all simultaneously. Wine rack can be illuminated so as to display a binary clock each of a number of cubbies representing a single bit of the binary time representation. With enough cubbies wine rack can be illuminated as a large dot matrix like digital clock with each of a number of cubbies serving as a pixel in a low resolution two dimensional raster image. With even more cubbies wine rack can display a low resolution analog clock in a similar fashion. Wine rack can be illuminated as a low resolution color mosaic art piece. Colors can gently and smoothly change from one to another and in combination with color changes in adjacent cubbies give the illusion of movement across the face of wine rack .

Thus wine rack is an effective input output device that mostly appears to be a conventional piece of furniture.

To coordinate this level of control of the display components of wine rack by collection information processing unit each display component e.g. display component FIG. includes digital logic that controls sensor and display element and that communicates with active furniture controller . In this illustrative embodiment such digital logic is one or more integrated circuits e.g. FPGAs and or ASICs and is connected to active furniture controller by an inter IC IC bus. In embodiments in which wine rack includes more cubbies than can be attached to a single IC bus multiple IC busses are tiered in a hierarhical arrangement to effectively scale the capacity of the bus architecture.

The vocabulary of messages that can be communicated between active furniture controller and display component is modest. Active furniture controller can send messages to display component instructing display component to i report its status ii sense the contents of its cubby and iii to change its display state. In response display component sends a reply message that respectively i reports its status ii reports the contents of its cubby or iii reports success or failure in changing its display state. The report of the status of display component is used by collection information processing unit to confirm proper of the display components of wine rack at start up and or for diagnostic purposes. The report of the contents of the cubby of display component can take any of the forms described above and can include predetermined data e.g. null data to indicate an empty cubby. The instruction to change display state specifies the display state in any of the forms described above a collection of red green and blue intensities for LEDs R G and B respectively to specify a single color in RGB a sequence of RGB colors with associated respective timestamps to specify a color sequence or a color sequence with associated fade rates specified for each color transition. It should be appreciated that active furniture controller can specify colors in colorspaces other than RGB e.g HSV YUV etc. and display component can perform colorspace conversion to determine appropriate levels of intensity at which to illuminate LEDs R G and B.

By sending individual display characteristics to respective ones of cubbies collection information processing unit retains control over the collective display provided by display elements of all cubbies . To coordinate display of similar bottles of wine collection information processing unit assigns a unique display characteristic to each of a number of categories and instructs each of cubies containing a wine of a particular category to present the same display characteristic assigned to the category. Such enables the sorts of categorized display shown in as described above.

Much of the logic embodied in collection information processing unit can be distributed among display components of the respective cubbies . For example display components can be networked and can communicate with one another to collaboratively choose display characteristics for various categories of wine. Similarly display components can individually gather information about wines stored in their respective cubbies through a network served database and can each store a complete wine record for their respective bottles. In such an embodiment each display component can independently respond to a query to show wines of a particular category simply by reference to its own wine record and collaboratively or previously determined unique display characteristics for the particular category.

While the foregoing is a complete description of exemplary specific embodiments of the invention additional embodiments are also possible. Thus the above description should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention which is defined solely by the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

