---

title: Ion mobility spectrometer with virtual aperture grid
abstract: An ion mobility spectrometer does not require a physical aperture grid to prevent premature ion detector response. The last electrodes adjacent to the ion collector (typically the last four or five) have an electrode pitch that is less than the width of the ion swarm and each of the adjacent electrodes is connected to a source of free charge, thereby providing a virtual aperture grid at the end of the drift region that shields the ion collector from the mirror current of the approaching ion swarm. The virtual aperture grid is less complex in assembly and function and is less sensitive to vibrations than the physical aperture grid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07838823&OS=07838823&RS=07838823
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 07838823
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081216
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to ion mobility spectroscopy and in particular to an ion mobility spectrometer with a virtual aperture grid that eliminates the need for a physical aperture grid to prevent premature ion detector response.

Ion mobility spectroscopy IMS sometimes known as plasma chromatography is a technology that is ideally suited for the detection of very low levels of analyte due to its extreme sensitivity and ability to speciate. IMS is widely used to detect narcotics explosives and chemical warfare agents since the technique can be tailored to be particularly sensitive to compounds that form negative ions such as nitrate laden explosives. Further because IMS can operate at atmospheric pressure and can detect trace quantities of explosives it is an attractive technology for use in a miniaturized explosives sensor. See L. M. Matz et al. 54 171 2001 C. Wu et al. 57 123 2002 M. Tabrizchi et al. 218 75 2002 and K. Cottingham 75 435A 2003 .

Ion mobility spectroscopy is based on the atmospheric pressure ionization of a sample vapor and the subsequent separation of the individual ionized components of the sample mixture via electrophoresis as they are accelerated by an external electric field gradient and transit a time of flight drift tube against a neutral counter flowing gas stream. See G. A. Eiceman and Z. Karpas 2Ed. Chapter 4 CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. 2004 .

A gate drive circuit provides a trigger to a gate thereby providing an ion pulse that is gated into a drift region to begin a new measurement cycle. IMS drift tubes have normally been operated by opening an electrostatic ion shutter to allow a narrow pulse of ions into the time of flight drift region where they move toward an ion collector as a single ion swarm to be measured as a transient collected current. The gate can be an electrostatic ion shutter such as a Bradbury Neilson or Tyndall type shutter. With a Bradbury Neilson shutter a transverse electric field is applied to drive the ions into a perpendicular trajectory from the axis into a conductor where ion annihilation occurs resulting in a cutoff of ion flow in the drift tube. The related Tyndall shutter uses two closely spaced planes of electrodes consisting of parallel wires or screens. A voltage is applied or removed between the planes to annihilate the ions during an off cycle and then release them into the drift tube as a pulse of ions. Conventional gating techniques such as Tyndall and Bradbury Neilson gates operate more like camera shutters and do not compress the ions as a result of an accumulation cycle. Another type of gate uses a single potential plane to form a potential well in the drift tube. This gate provides a potential capture well that controls the injection of ions into the drift region by first collecting the ions and then releasing them as a pulse.

Drift gas is injected into the drift tube via a drift gas inlet and removed through a drift gas outlet . In the drift region the ions establish a terminal velocity under the influence of the potential gradient of the electric field and are separated into single ion swarms according to their characteristic ion mobility against the counter flowing drift gas . The separation begins at the entrance gate and terminates at the ion collector at the end of the drift region where the ion response signal is recorded. For example the ion collector can comprise a collecting electrode or Faraday plate that records an ion response current. The response of the IMS drift tube is measured as a function of ion current versus the ion arrival time at the ion collector for a measurement cycle. Typically the ion detector comprises an operational amplifier for converting the ion response current into an ion mobility spectrum. The spectrum of ion arrival times at the ion collector indicates the relative ion mobility of each ion through the drift region. Compound identification is typically based on the comparison of the ion mobility spectrum generated from the sample with the spectrum of a known standard.

The resolution of the IMS is related to the drift time divided by the pulse width at the one half amplitude of a single ion swarm. The pulse width is subject to several broadening mechanisms including the initial gated pulse width diffusional broadening electrostatic space charge repulsion electric field gradients temperature gradients gate depletion dynamic leakage pressure fluctuations ion molecule reactions in the drift space and capacitive coupling between approaching ions and the ion collector. See R. H. St. Louis and H. H. Hill 21 321 1990 . In particular capacitive coupling between an approaching ion swarm and the ion collector causes an asymmetry in the rising edge of the response current. Therefore a physical aperture grid constructed from an array of small wires suspended across the interior of the drift tube is located just ahead of the ion collector to capacitively decouple the approaching ion cloud and prevent peak broadening due to a premature detector response. However the addition of an aperture grid to the spectrometer results in increased complexity of the system in both assembly and function. In addition it leads to a large source of noise in the spectrometer as the grid can be vibration sensitive and generate an additional current that is a function of acoustic vibration in the environment.

Therefore a need remains for an ion mobility spectrometer that does not require a physical aperture grid to eliminate capacitive coupling of an ion swarm to the ion collector.

The present invention is directed to an ion mobility spectrometer comprising an ionizing region for ionizing a sample vapor to form ions a drift tube comprising a drift region in which the ions drift under the influence of an electric field established by a plurality of stacked electrodes against a counter flowing drift gas and are separated into at least one single ion swarm therein a gate for pulsing the ions into the drift region an ion collector for detecting the single ion swarm at the end of the drift region to provide an ion mobility spectrum and wherein at least two of the stacked electrodes adjacent to the ion collector have an electrode pitch that is less than the width of an ion swarm and each of the adjacent electrodes is connected to a source of free charge thereby providing a virtual aperture grid at the end of the drift region that shields the ion collector from the mirror current of the ion swarm. The source of free charge can be a low pass electrical circuit that has a cut off frequency below a minimum frequency component of the ion swarm. The number of electrodes in the virtual aperture can typically be four of five. The electrode pitch can typically be less than 5 mm and more typically less than 0.75 mm.

Ion mobility spectrometer drift tubes have been traditionally constructed to have a constant radius cylindrical structure with a constant axial electric field to transport the ions from the ion source to the detector. Ions are produced in the ionization region and transported via the electric field to the gate. An ion pulse is released by the gate and travels through the drift tube and separated ions are detected with a Faraday plate positioned at the end of the drift tube.

Detection occurs as the ions collide with the Faraday plate. As a result charges are drawn from the electronic detection circuit and a current occurs. The current is generally amplified via a trans impedance operational amplifier into a voltage that is proportional to the ion current. A circuit model of the IMS tube and the first stage of amplification is shown in . The current collected at the Faraday plate is given as i t the drift time is denoted as t and the dependent mirror current is given as the dependent current source i t . Assuming that the operational amplifier is ideal in that the input impedance is infinite the expression for the output voltage of the amplifier can be written as 1 

In the literature it has been shown that the general charge density of an ion swarm in drift tubes where the tube diameter is large compared to the ion swarm diameter and the electric field is constant is of the following general form in cylindrical coordinates 

Since r is a function of the radial position of the induced charge on the Faraday plate it is also a function of time since the axial position of the swarm is a function of time. Thus the total charge on the Faraday plate can be determined as a function of time by integrating Eq. 4 over the surface of the Faraday plate 

By taking the derivative with respect to time of Eq. 5 and combining it with the equation for the ion drift position in an IMS z L xEt an expression for the mirror current at the Faraday plate can be written as 

As shown in in a conventional ion mobility spectrometer this mirror current contribution is substantially eliminated by placing a physical aperture grid in front of the Faraday plate. This aperture grid typically consists of a grid of conductors placed perpendicular to the axis that constitutes an equipotental surface off of which is formed the mirror element rather than off of the Faraday plate. This eliminates the mirror current effect in the ion mobility spectrum by sourcing the mirror charge from the aperture grid power supply rather than the detection electronics. However the addition of an aperture grid to the IMS results in increased complexity of the system in both assembly and function. In addition it leads to a large source of noise in the IMS as the grid can be vibration sensitive and generate an additional current that is a function of acoustic vibration in the environment.

The present invention is directed to an ion mobility spectrometer that requires no physical aperture grid i.e. it uses a virtual aperture grid resulting in the reduced system complexity and reduced noise. shows a schematic illustration of an ion mobility spectrometer with no physical aperture. As with the conventional ion mobility spectrometer the sample vapor is drawn into an IMS drift tube and ionized in an ionization region by an ionizer . A pulse of ions is periodically gated into the drift region of the drift tube by a gate . The drift tube further comprises a series of stacked electrodes to provide a uniform electric field in the drift region . In the drift region the ions establish a terminal velocity under the influence of the potential gradient of the electric field and are separated into single ion swarms according to their characteristic ion mobility against the counter flowing drift gas . The separation begins at the entrance gate and terminates at an ion collector at the end of the drift region where the ion response signal is recorded. For example the ion collector can be a Faraday plate that records an ion response current. The ion response current can be amplified via an operational amplifier into a voltage that is proportional to the ion current thereby providing an ion mobility spectrum.

To maintain resolution in a drift tube it is important that the local electric field be a constant over as much of the cylindrical cross section as possible. Since electric field is a vector quantity this requires that the direction be parallel with the axis and the magnitude be constant. Uniform electric fields provide every ion with an equal probability of transport via electric forces to the ion collector at exactly the same drift velocity independent of its initial conditions. If an ion is transported to the collector in a region of non uniform field such as very near the tube walls its path will be substantially longer than an ion transported down the center of the drift tube. This results in temporal dispersion of the ion swarm and associated resolution loss in the tube. Therefore a high linear density of stacked electrodes is generally used to increase the region of electric field uniformity in a small radius drift tube. Providing numerous closely spaced electrodes limits regions of electrical non uniformity and improves the resolution of the IMS.

By placing several stacked electrodes very close together such that their spacing is much less than the spatial extent of the charge swarm and giving each of them an individual source of charge such as a capacitor screening of the moving swarm can be accomplished until the ion swarm is within a single electrode spacing of the Faraday plate. As an example if the spacing of the control grids is 0.75 mm the initial width of a swarm is impliedly never narrower than 0.75 mm. For a typical ion swarm drifting in an IMS the speed is on the order of 5 m s and the temporal width of the gate pulse is on the order of 0.5 to 1 ms in width. Thus the physical width of an ion swarm is typically on the order of 2 5 mm. If the IMS tube uses a very narrow pitch for the electrodes that is smaller than the width of the ion swarm then it is possible to construct a virtual aperture grid that shields the Faraday plate from the changing mirror current while avoiding the added complexity and sensitivity to noise that is inherent in a physical aperture grid.

The spacing of the electrodes and the values of the capacitors are determined by the geometry of the gate and initial ion pulse width the desired electric field in the tube E the effects of diffusion D electrostatic repulsion and other spreading mechanisms in the tube. Coupled with the effects of the other spreading mechanisms the final ion number density n after travel through the tube can be described by solution of the following non linear partial differential equation where z is defined as the tube axial direction 

Eq. 7 cannot be solved analytically but can be determined numerically to find the width of the final ion swarm at the detector. Preferably the electrode pitch can be high enough such that the swarm is 4 to 5 times wider than the electrode spacing in the virtual aperture grid. It is reasonable to assume that higher pitches will work even better. A design equation for an m electrode virtual aperture grid m is the number of electrodes forming the grid adjacent to the ion collector with an electrode pitch P is given in Eq. 8 where L is the length of the tube and R is the desired resolution of the tube.

The value of the capacitance in is determined by several tube parameters namely the power supply voltage V the minimum mobility that is to be measured and the resistance between tube electrodes R as follows 

Eq. 9 is based on the assumption that the electric field and electrode pitch is constant over the entire length of the IMS tube as is generally the case. However a constant electric field is not necessary for an IMS tube design to function. In the case of a non linear electric field or electrode pitch the virtual aperture grid can be designed by determining the average electric field magnitude E at the virtual aperture grid electrodes and rewriting Eq. 9 as follows 

To demonstrate a virtual aperture grid a miniaturized IMS drift tube was constructed that was similar in design to the larger stacked drift tubes found in commercial systems. The miniature IMS drift tube was constructed from rolled low temperature co fired ceramics LTCC with integral potential resistors. LTCC allows simple screen printing processing for the production of the stacked electrodes and on board surface mount resistors fabricated directly on the tube reduce the number of electrical connections required without sacrificing the performance of numerous electrodes with small spacing. In addition integral heating elements were incorporated into the structure for operation at elevated temperature. Control structures were constructed using LIGA LIGA is a German acronym that stands for lithography electroforming and molding processing that were inserted into the tubes and formed the gate structures of the tube. The end pieces containing the gas inlets target apertures and a 20 CiAm ionization source were constructed from the LTCC and bonded to the tubes. See K. B. Pfeifer and R. C. Sanchez 5 63 2002 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 155 812 to Peterson et al. which are incorporated herein by reference.

The gate used a potential well to capture ions rather than to block the flow of ions by annihilation as in the case of a Bradbury Neilsen or a Tyndall gate. To provide the gate two conducting LIGA formed grid structures spaced 0.75 mm apart were used to provide a uniform potential contour across the diameter of the tube at their respective potentials. The first grid structure was actively switched to provide a 25 V potential energy well in the potential field. The second grid was permanently biased such that it reestablished the uniform electric field found in the rest of the tube and also shielded the detector pin from the field disturbance due to the gate switching. Ions of low kinetic energy are trapped in this potential well and the charge density becomes locally higher resulting in electrostatic repulsion effects initially spreading the captured ion swarm when the potential well is released. Therefore the initial width of the ion pulse must be on the order of the spacing between the two LIGA grids i.e. 0.75 mm otherwise ions would enter into the drift region and escape the well. See W. C. Blanchard 95 199 1989 .

Methylene chloride CHCl gas was injected into the drift tube by way of a drift gas flow of about 100 sccm room air 10 20 RH 23 C. that was first passed over a diffusion tube containing liquid CHCl. This gave a CHClconcentration in the ionization chamber of about 300 ppm.

The LTCC drift tube had a 12 mm bore and 57 mm drift length. The tube had a high density of stacked electrodes 80 electrodes spaced at 0.75 mm center to center pitch over the length of the drift tube to maintain a uniform electric field in the center of the tube. A variable high voltage dc power supply could provide electric fields in the center of the tube that ranged from 0 to 18 kV m. A signal generator was used to set the overall timing of the circuit connected to a variable width pulse generator. The output of the pulse generator was used to trigger an oscilloscope and the drive electronics of the IMS circuit board. The IMS circuit board contained the necessary high voltage supply for the tube potential gradient as well as switching circuitry that allows for development of 5 70 V potential wells in the tube. The highest signal to noise ratio occurred with a potential well on the order of 25 V which was used for this demonstration. The circuit board also contained a 200 dB gain trans impedance operational amplifier with a nine pole band pass filter 10 5500 Hz . The ion current was amplified by the operational amplifier and recorded as an ion mobility spectrum by the oscilloscope.

The value of R in Eq. 9 can generally be determined from the maximum current sourcing capability of the power supply and is preferably large enough such that the tube will not load the supply. For this exemplary tube the supply voltage was 2000 V with a 0.5 mA maximum current capability i.e. 1 W . The resistance between the 81 electrodes was 140 k for maximum current of 0.18 mA. The resolution of the 57 mm drift tube was designed to be approximately 15 indicating an electrode pitch from Eq. 8 of 0.75 mm. The capacitance can then be calculated from Eq. 9 assuming a minimum ion mobility of 1 cm Vs . The minimum capacitance that will function as a virtual aperture grid is 15 nF for this tube design. To provide an order of magnitude buffer in the low pass cut off the virtual aperture grid in this example used 220 nF capacitors. The capacitance is determined by the RC time constant and can vary depending on the resistor used tube design and power supply source capability. Although as few as one electrode can be used two electrodes is a practical minimum due to finite conductivity and stray capacitance in the system. There is no theoretical limit to the number of electrodes that can be used in the virtual aperture grid however adding additional electrodes adds more complexity. The number of electrodes that form the virtual aperture grid was four in this exemplary tube. The spacing of the Faraday plate collector from the last electrode in the tube was approximately equal to the electrode pitch of 0.75 mm.

The present invention has been described as an ion mobility spectrometer with a virtual aperture grid. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

