---

title: Route reference
abstract: A user input is received on a wireless device specifying a starting location. The position of the wireless device is tracked from the starting location in response to the user input. A user input is received on the wireless device specifying an ending location, and a route is generated from the tracking of the wireless device from the starting location to the ending location. A first reference is associated with the route, wherein the route is retrievable by a selection of the first reference.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08762056&OS=08762056&RS=08762056
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08762056
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080206
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 946 771 filed Jun. 28 2007 and entitled ROUTE REFERENCE the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Navigation systems have historically provided little intelligence other than the ability to navigate from an origination point to a destination point. Some navigation systems include functionality for using traffic information in navigating from the origination point to the destination point. Other systems have also provided more than one route for a user based on an origination and destination point and allowed the user to select one of the routes. However these systems do not allow the users to interact with the routes nor change the routes in any way.

Thus the navigation system adds little value outside of providing a map to the user. Such problems with navigation systems can undermine a user s desire to use the navigation system.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for generating a route. In one implementation a user input is received on a wireless device specifying a starting location. The position of the wireless device is tracked from the starting location in response to the user input. A user input is received on the wireless device specifying an ending location and a route is generated from the tracking of the wireless device from the starting location to the ending location. A first reference is associated with the route wherein the route is retrievable by a selection of the first reference.

In another implementation an input is received specifying a first location and an input is received specifying a second location. A travel route is computed between the first and second locations. An edit is received associated with the travel route and the travel route is edited on the wireless device in accordance with the edit.

In another implementation a user input is received on a wireless device specifying a starting location. A user input is received on the wireless device specifying an ending location. One or more routes are generated from the starting location to the ending location. User input is received on the wireless device selecting one or the one or more routes. A first reference is associated with the selected route wherein the selected route is retrievable by a selection of the first reference.

In another implementation a system includes a location engine for a wireless device that produces information indicative of a plurality of locations. The system also includes a route engine that receives information indicative of a first location tracks a position of the wireless device from the first location in response to the information receives information indicative of a second location generates a route from the first location to the second location in accordance with the tracking of the wireless device receives information indicative of en edit and edits the route by tracking the position of the wireless device to the second location wherein the route is associated with a reference.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display can implement liquid crystal display LCD technology light emitting polymer display LPD technology or some other display technology. The touch sensitive display can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user.

In some implementations the touch sensitive display can comprise a multi touch sensitive display . A multi touch sensitive display can for example process multiple simultaneous touch points including processing data related to the pressure degree and or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers chording and other interactions. Other touch sensitive display technologies can also be used e.g. a display in which contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. Some examples of multi touch sensitive display technology are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 846 6 570 557 6 677 932 and U.S. Patent Publication 2002 0015024A1 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user. In some implementations the graphical user interface can include one or more display objects . In the example shown the display objects are graphic representations of system objects. Some examples of system objects include device functions applications windows files alerts events or other identifiable system objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a telephony device as indicated by a phone object an e mail device as indicated by the e mail object a network data communication device as indicated by the Web object a Wi Fi base station device not shown and a media processing device as indicated by the media player object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the phone object the e mail object the Web object and the media player object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement network distribution functionality. For example the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device and its associated network while traveling. In particular the mobile device can extend Internet access e.g. Wi Fi to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example mobile device can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such mobile device can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.

In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example in response to a user touching the phone object the graphical user interface of the touch sensitive display may present display objects related to various phone functions likewise touching of the email object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various e mail functions touching the Web object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various Web surfing functions and touching the media player object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various media processing functions.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface environment or state of can be restored by pressing a button located near the bottom of the mobile device . In some implementations each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding home display objects displayed on the touch sensitive display and the graphical user interface environment of can be restored by pressing the home display object.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include additional display objects such as a short messaging service SMS object a calendar object a photos object a camera object a calculator object a stocks object a weather object a maps object a notes object a clock object an address book object and a settings object . Touching the SMS display object can for example invoke an SMS messaging environment and supporting functionality likewise each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . For example if the device is functioning as a base station for other devices one or more connection objects may appear in the graphical user interface to indicate the connection. In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user e.g. a user may specify which display objects are displayed and or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example a speaker and a microphone can be included to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch sensitive display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch sensitive display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations an ambient light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch sensitive display . In some implementations an accelerometer can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape. In some implementations the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS or other positioning systems e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device through an interface e.g. port device to provide access to location based services.

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as an 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi 3G code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE etc.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. In some implementations the port device allows the mobile device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP HTTP UDP and any other known protocol. In some implementations a TCP IP over USB protocol can be used.

The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other wireless devices cell phones etc. over the wireless network . Likewise the mobile devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication device shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

The mobile device can for example communicate with one or more services and and or one or more content publishers over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example a navigation service can provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device . In the example shown a user of the mobile device has invoked a map functionality e.g. by pressing the maps object on the top level graphical user interface shown in and has requested and received a map for the location 1 Infinite Loop Cupertino Calif. 

A messaging service can for example provide e mail and or other messaging services. A media service can for example provide access to media files such as song files movie files video clips and other media data. One or more other services can also be utilized by the mobile device .

The mobile device can also access other data and content over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers e.g. content publisher s such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching the Web object .

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a positioning system e.g. GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

In some implementations the mobile device can receive positioning information from a positioning system . The positioning system in various implementations can be located on the mobile device or can be coupled to the mobile device e.g. using a wired connection or a wireless connection . In some implementations the positioning system can include a global positioning system GPS receiver and a positioning engine operable to derive positioning information from received GPS satellite signals. In other implementations the positioning system can include a compass and an accelerometer as well as a positioning engine operable to derive positioning information based on dead reckoning techniques. In still further implementations the positioning system can use wireless signals to determine location information associated with the mobile device. Other positioning systems are possible. In still other implementations the user can enter a set of position coordinates e.g. latitude longitude for the mobile device. For example the position coordinates can be typed into the phone e.g. using a virtual keyboard or selected by touching a point on a map. Position coordinates can also be acquired from another device e.g. a car navigation system by syncing or linking with the other device.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device may include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network. In particular the wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keyboard.

In some implementations the mobile device can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations the mobile device can include the functionality of an MP3 player such as an iPod . The mobile device may therefore include a 36 pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input output and control devices can also be used.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. The memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other software instructions to facilitate other processes and functions.

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

In one implementation a user input can for example be received on a mobile device specifying a starting location for a route. The input can for example be received on the user interface . The mobile device can for example provide the route to a user of the mobile device . The starting location can for example correspond to a geographic location that is used to generate a route and can be input manually by a user of the mobile device based on the starting location. The input can for example be received on the user interface . The user can for example input an address corresponding to the starting location . The address can for example include a street number street name city state and zip code. In one implementation the starting location can be indicated by a landmark e.g. an airport or airport code.

In one implementation the route engine can automatically derive the starting location information using the current location as the starting location . For example the user of the mobile device can decide to navigate to a particular location from a current location. The mobile device can receive an indication as to whether automatically derive the starting location information. The route engine can derive starting information using the positioning system when the indication is received to use the current location as the starting location .

In one implementation the positioning system can be a global positioning system GPS device. In other implementations the positioning system can be provided by an accelerometer and a compass using dead reckoning techniques. In such implementations the positioning system can be reset by marking the device s presence at a known location e.g. landmark intersection etc. . In still further implementations the positioning system can be provided by using wireless signal strength and one or more locations of known wireless signal sources to provide current location. Wireless signal sources can include access points and or cellular towers. Other positioning systems are possible. For example a user may be driving in a car with the mobile device and decide to use the mobile device to generate a route to a specific destination. The route engine can automatically derive the starting location of the mobile device by the positioning system . The mobile device can automatically derive the starting location information in response to a user input.

In one implementation the route engine can track a position of the mobile device from the starting location in response to the user input. The position of the mobile device can for example be tracked in conjunction with the positioning system . In various implementations the positioning system can be provided by a separate device coupled to the mobile device e.g. mobile device of . In other implementations the positioning system can be provided internal to the mobile device.

The route engine can for example start tracking the position of the mobile device until an indication is received to stop tracking. For example as the user in the above example moves from the starting location the route engine tracks the position of the mobile device until an indication is received to end tracking of the mobile device .

In one implementation user input can be received on the mobile device specifying an ending location . The route engine can stop tracking the mobile device upon receipt of the user input specifying the ending location . The ending location can for example be input manually by the user of the mobile device . The mobile device can for example receive an address corresponding to the ending location in response to a user input. In one implementation the ending location can for example be automatically derived by the route engine . The mobile device can receive the ending location as the current location of the mobile device in response to a user input. The route engine can derive the ending location using the current location and the positioning system .

A route can include route guidelines including streets distances landmarks etc. that were taken while navigating from the starting location to the ending location . Based on the complexity of a route the route can include many route guidelines. Route guidelines in some implementations can include a discrete length of road which comprises a route. The route can for example include navigating directions from the starting location to the ending location .

The route engine can provide the route tracked to a presentation engine . The presentation engine can for example communicate with a map system . In some implementations the map system can be provided for example by a navigation service e.g. navigation service of . In other implementations the map system can be provided by a map store residing on the mobile device e.g. mobile device of . The presentation engine can use the map provided by the map system to overlay the route information.

In other implementations the route can be overlayed on a map provided by a local map information store. In some implementations the map includes a number of road representations. The road representations for example can be overlayed by traffic information associated with respective route progressions. Traffic information can be indicated for example by color coding on or alongside road representations pushpin messages associated with road representations traffic animations associated with road representation etc. The presentation of the route can enable a user of the mobile device to navigate from a current location to an ending location . For example the route the user took from the starting location to the ending location can be saved by the route engine and displayed on the presentation engine .

In some implementations the one or more routes can be generated based upon user preferences retrieved from a data store in conjunction with the user specified starting locations and ending locations . User preference information for example might indicate a user preference for types of roads distance traffic traffic control devices e.g. traffic lights stop signs rotaries etc. time preferred routes neighborhoods etc.

In one implementation the route engine can generate one or more routes based upon traffic information . The traffic information can be retrieved for example from a traffic information service. In some implementations the traffic information service can be provided by a government or commercial service provider.

In one implementation any of the generated routes can be selected as the route to navigate. The route engine can for example provide the route selected to a presentation engine . The presentation engine can for example communicate with a map system . In some implementations the map system can be provided for example by a navigation service e.g. navigation service of . In other implementations the map system can be provided by a map store residing on the mobile device e.g. mobile device of . The presentation engine can use the map provided by the map system to overlay the route information.

In one implementation the route engine can associate a reference with each of the routes generated. In another implementation the route engine can associate a reference with each route determined by tracking the mobile device . The reference can for example include one or more parameters associated with the route. The parameters can be associated with the names of the starting location and ending location . The parameters can also be associated with user specified parameters associated with the route. The route engine can for example save the route under the reference in the mobile device . The mobile device can for example at any time retrieve the saved route using the reference in response to a user input.

For example suppose the starting location of the route was indicated at the grocery store. Suppose also that the ending location is the grocery store. The route can be saved with the reference home to grocery or if the route was a scenic route the route can be saved with the reference scenic route. In one implementation the same route can be associated with one or more reference names. Therefore the route in the above example can be associated with the reference home to grocery as well as scenic route. 

In another example suppose an address of the user s house is indicated as the starting location and the address of a friend s house is indicated as the ending location . The route engine can generate a route from the user s house to the friend s house and display it for the user. A reference can be associated with this route and the route can be retrieved at a later time using the reference.

In one implementation the mobile device can be used in conjunction with an on board navigation system for a vehicle. The mobile device can provide route information to a user of the navigation system.

In one implementation any route generated by the route engine can be edited by an editor engine . A route can for example be edited by an editor engine if it was created by tracking the mobile device as described above. A route can also be edited if created by the route engine by receiving a starting location and an ending location and the route engine generating the route. In other implementations any route previously created or saved by the route engine or received from a peer through the mobile device e.g. an SMS message describing the route can be edited.

For example a saved route can be retrieved by indicating the reference of the route. The route engine can retrieve the saved route using the reference input by the user. While navigating according to the route guidelines the mobile device can receive an indication to edit the route. For example a different road can be selected than the current road indicated on the route or a different ending location can be selected other than the one indicated on the route. Upon receipt of an edit the editor engine can track the position of the route to the ending location . In one implementation the route engine can associate the same reference with the edited route. In other implementations the route engine can for example associate the new route with a second reference. In one implementation upon receipt of an edit location indicator the editor engine can track the position of the route to the ending location .

For example suppose a route referenced as back roads home from work is selected. The mobile device can retrieve the route using the reference back roads home from work and display the route for the user. An alternate road can be selected than the one indicated on the retrieved route at a certain point during the route. The mobile device can receive an indication that the route back roads home from work is to be edited. The editor engine can therefore start tracking the changes in the route from the point in time of receipt of the edit indication. At the ending location the mobile device can receive an indication that the ending location has been reached. The route engine save the edited route as back roads home from work and save this new route information. The route engine can also select a new reference for the edited route e.g. back roads home from work not using highway. 

In one implementation the route engine can retrieve real time traffic information on the mobile device as described above. The traffic information can for example be related to a universe of area roads can be communicated to one or more mobile devices e.g. mobile devices of and the route engine can parse the signal to obtain traffic information for route guidelines.

In one implementation the current route can be edited based on the traffic information . The mobile device can receive an edit location indicator and the route can be edited based on the traffic information . Editing the route can for example include receiving input of a different road than the current one displayed on the mobile device . For example suppose a saved route is retrieved by the mobile device by receiving an indication of a reference route A. The route includes directions from point A to point B. While navigating from point A to B according to Route A the mobile device receives traffic information indicating heavy traffic where Route A indicates the next turn should occur. The mobile device can then edit Route A by receiving an input of an edit location indicator. An alternative road can be selected from the current location. At any time an indication can be received on the mobile device to start tracking Route A from the current location. The editor engine can track the mobile device from the new location to the ending location . The route engine can associate a new reference with the edited route e.g. alternative Route A or associate the same reference Route A with the edited route.

In some implementations if a route is retrieved by a reference the routing instructions can continue to analyze a current route to monitor for changing conditions. For example an accident between the start of navigation of a route and the end of navigation of the route might change the analysis associated with recommending the current route. In such situations the routing instructions using the route engine can calculate alternative routes. In some implementations the routing instructions can automatically communicate a new route through the presentation engine . Such automatic rerouting can be provided with notification of the change or without notification of the change. In other implementations the routing instructions can present the estimated navigation times associated with alternative routes through the presentation engine . An alternative route can be selected based upon the estimated navigation times. The selection in various implementations can be indicated by selecting a route using an I O device e.g. touch screen of or by navigating one of the alternative routes among others. Once the route changes a new reference can be associated with the route. In other implementations the same reference can be associated with the edited route.

In one implementation the route engine can learn to use a specific route when determining a route from a starting to an ending location. The route engine can for example analyze all previous routes generated and navigated and determine that one particular route is often used. In another example the route engine can keep a log entry every time a user edits a route and determine whether the route is edited to use a particular road. The route engine can use this particular road the next time the route is generated.

At stage a user input is received on a mobile device specifying a starting location . The user input can for example be received by a mobile device e.g. mobile device of in conjunction with sensor processing instructions e.g. sensor processing instructions of and GPS Navigation instructions e.g. GPS Navigation instructions of operating in conjunction with a wireless communication of . The starting location can be input manually by a user or be automatically determined by a positioning system e.g. the positioning system .

At stage a position of the mobile device is tracked from the starting location in response to the user input. The position of the mobile device can for example be tracked by a positioning system e.g. the positioning system of in conjunction GPS Navigation instructions e.g. GPS Navigation instructions of .

At stage a user input is received on the mobile device specifying an ending location . The user input can for example be received by a mobile device e.g. mobile device of in conjunction with sensor processing instructions and GPS Navigation instructions e.g. GPS Navigation instructions of . The ending location can be input manually by a user or be automatically determined by a positioning system e.g. the positioning system .

At stage a route is generated from the tracking of the mobile device from the starting location to the ending location . Alternatively the route can be generated without tracking that is based on a request to progress from a starting location to a destination without movement e.g. prior to commencing the travel . The route can for example be generated by a route engine e.g. route engine of in conjunction with GPS Navigation instructions e.g. GPS Navigation instructions of . The route can include directions from the starting location to the ending location .

At stage a first reference is associated with the route wherein the route is retrievable by a selection of the first reference. The first reference can for example be associated with the route by a route engine e.g. route engine of in conjunction with GPS Navigation instructions e.g. GPS Navigation instructions of .

At stage an input is received specifying a first location. The input can for example be received by a wireless device e.g. mobile device of in conjunction with sensor processing instructions e.g. sensor processing instructions and GPS Navigation instructions e.g. GPS Navigation instructions of . The first location can correspond to a first geographic location.

At stage input is received specifying a second location. The input can for example be received by a mobile device e.g. mobile device of in conjunction with sensor processing instructions e.g. sensor processing instructions and GPS Navigation instructions e.g. GPS Navigation instructions of . The second location can correspond to a second geographic location.

At stage a travel route is computed between the first and second geographic locations. The travel route can for example be computed by route engine e.g. route engine of in conjunction with GPS Navigation instructions e.g. GPS Navigation instructions of .

At stage an input is received indicating an edit. The input can for example be received by a wireless device e.g. mobile device of in conjunction with sensor processing instructions e.g. sensor processing instructions and GPS Navigation instructions e.g. GPS Navigation .

At stage the travel route is edited on a wireless in accordance with the edit. The travel route can for example be edited on a wireless device e.g. mobile device of in conjunction with GPS Navigation instructions e.g. GPS Navigation .

At stage a user input is received specifying a first reference. The input can for example be received by a wireless device e.g. mobile device of in conjunction with sensor processing instructions e.g. sensor processing instructions and GPS Navigation instructions e.g. GPS Navigation .

At stage a route is displayed on a wireless device. The route can for example be displayed on a wireless device e.g. mobile device of in conjunction with sensor processing instructions e.g. sensor processing instructions and GPS Navigation instructions e.g. GPS Navigation .

At stage a user input is received specifying an edit. The input can for example be received by a wireless device e.g. mobile device of in conjunction with sensor processing instructions e.g. sensor processing instructions and GPS Navigation instructions e.g. GPS Navigation .

At stage the route is edited by tracking the position of the wireless device to the ending location. The route can for example be edited by an editor engine e.g. editor engine in conjunction with GPS Navigation instructions e.g. GPS Navigation .

The systems and methods disclosed herein may use data signals conveyed using networks e.g. local area network wide area network internet etc. fiber optic medium carrier waves wireless networks e.g. wireless local area networks wireless metropolitan area networks cellular networks etc. etc. for communication with one or more data processing devices e.g. mobile devices . The data signals can carry any or all of the data disclosed herein that is provided to or from a device.

The methods and systems described herein may be implemented on many different types of processing devices by program code comprising program instructions that are executable by one or more processors. The software program instructions may include source code object code machine code or any other stored data that is operable to cause a processing system to perform methods described herein.

The systems and methods may be provided on many different types of computer readable media including computer storage mechanisms e.g. CD ROM diskette RAM flash memory computer s hard drive etc. that contain instructions for use in execution by a processor to perform the methods operations and implement the systems described herein.

The computer components software modules functions and data structures described herein may be connected directly or indirectly to each other in order to allow the flow of data needed for their operations. It is also noted that software instructions or a module can be implemented for example as a subroutine unit of code or as a software function unit of code or as an object as in an object oriented paradigm or as an applet or in a computer script language or as another type of computer code or firmware. The software components and or functionality may be located on a single device or distributed across multiple devices depending upon the situation at hand.

This written description sets forth the best mode of the invention and provides examples to describe the invention and to enable a person of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention. This written description does not limit the invention to the precise terms set forth. Thus while the invention has been described in detail with reference to the examples set forth above those of ordinary skill in the art may effect alterations modifications and variations to the examples without departing from the scope of the invention.

