---

title: Deflection device including expansion and contraction regions
abstract: A method of printing and a printhead are provided. The printhead includes a nozzle array having a width; a gas flow source; and a gas flow duct in fluid communication with the gas flow source. The gas flow duct includes an expansion region and a compression region. The expansion region of the gas flow duct gradually expands along its cross sectional length to at least the width of the nozzle array. The compression region of the gas flow duct gradually contracts along its cross sectional length.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07946691&OS=07946691&RS=07946691
owner: Eastman Kodak Company
number: 07946691
owner_city: Rochester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081105
---
Reference is made to commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 222 583 filed concurrently herewith entitled DEFLECTION DEVICE INCLUDING GAS FLOW RESTRICTION DEVICE in the name of Michael S. Hanchak incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates generally to the field of digitally controlled printing devices and in particular to continuous printing systems in which a liquid stream breaks into droplets at least some of which are deflected by a gas flow.

In printing systems for example inkjet printing systems it is critical to provide systems having predictable and accurate printed drop placement in order to reduce image defects and maintain print quality standards. Conditions which may lead to reduced printed drop placement accuracy resulting in increased image defects and reduced print quality should to be minimized.

The present invention helps to provide predictable and accurate printed drop placement by reducing turbulent gas flow in printing systems that use gas flow to deflect drops. Drop deflection or divergence can be adversely affected when turbulence is present in for example the interaction area of the drops and the gas flow force. Turbulent gas flow may increase or decrease the angle of drop deflection or divergence for both printed and non printed drops which may lead to reduced drop placement accuracy image defects and poor print quality.

According to one aspect of the present invention in a printing system that uses gas flow to deflect drops a laminar flow of gas that has uniform velocity and directionality across a nozzle array is provided in a drop deflection zone so that drop deflection occurs in a predictable and accurate manner.

According to another aspect of the invention a continuous printing system gas flow deflection mechanism includes a nozzle array a gas flow source and a gas flow duct. The nozzle array has a width. The gas flow duct is in fluid communication with the gas flow source and includes an expansion region and a compression region. The expansion region has a cross sectional length and a cross sectional width and includes a first portion and a second portion. The first portion of the gas flow duct is coupled to the gas flow source. The expansion region of the gas flow duct gradually expands along its cross sectional length for example to at least the width of the nozzle array such that the cross sectional width of the expansion region in the second portion of the expansion region is greater than the cross sectional width of the expansion region in the first portion of the expansion region. The compression region has a cross section sectional length and a cross sectional width and includes a third portion and a fourth portion. The third portion of the compression region is adjacent to the second portion of the expansion region. The compression region of the gas flow duct gradually contracts along its cross sectional length such that the cross sectional width of the compression region in the fourth portion of the compression region is less than the cross sectional width of the compression region in the third portion of the compression region.

According to another aspect of the invention a method of printing includes providing a nozzle array having a width providing a gas flow duct in fluid communication with a gas flow source the gas flow duct including an expansion region and a compression region the expansion region having a cross sectional length and a cross sectional width the expansion region including a first portion and a second portion the first portion of the gas flow duct being coupled to the gas flow source the expansion region of the gas flow duct gradually expanding along its cross sectional length to at least the width of the nozzle array such that the cross sectional width of the expansion region in the second portion of the expansion region is greater than the cross sectional width of the expansion region in the first portion of the expansion region the compression region having a cross section sectional length and a cross sectional width the compression region including a third portion and a fourth portion the third portion of the compression region being adjacent to the second portion of the expansion region the compression region of the gas flow duct gradually contracting along its cross sectional length such that the cross sectional width of the compression region in the fourth portion of the compression region is less than the cross sectional width of the compression region in the third portion of the compression region causing liquid to be ejected in the form of a drop having a first volume and a drop having a second volume and causing a gas flow generated by the gas flow source to flow through the gas flow duct and interact with the drop having a first volume and the drop having a second volume.

The present description will be directed in particular to elements forming part of or cooperating more directly with apparatus in accordance with the present invention. It is to be understood that elements not specifically shown or described may take various forms well known to those skilled in the art. In the following description and drawings identical reference numerals have been used where possible to designate identical elements.

The example embodiments of the present invention are illustrated schematically and not to scale for the sake of clarity. One of the ordinary skills in the art will be able to readily determine the specific size and interconnections of the elements of the example embodiments of the present invention.

As described herein the example embodiments of the present invention provide a printhead and or printhead components typically used in inkjet printing systems. However many other applications are emerging which use inkjet printheads to emit liquids other than inks that need to be finely metered and deposited with high spatial precision. As such as described herein the terms liquid and or ink refer to any material that can be ejected by the printhead and or printhead components described below.

Referring to a continuous printing system includes an image source such as a scanner or computer which provides raster image data outline image data in the form of a page description language or other forms of digital image data. This image data is converted to half toned bitmap image data by an image processing unit which also stores the image data in memory. A plurality of drop forming mechanism control circuits read data from the image memory and apply time varying electrical pulses to a drop forming mechanism s that are associated with one or more nozzles of a printhead . These pulses are applied at an appropriate time and to the appropriate nozzle so that drops formed from a continuous ink jet stream will form spots on a recording medium in the appropriate position designated by the data in the image memory.

Recording medium is moved relative to printhead by a recording medium transport system which is electronically controlled by a recording medium transport control system and which in turn is controlled by a micro controller . The recording medium transport system shown in is a schematic only and many different mechanical configurations are possible. For example a transfer roller could be used as recording medium transport system to facilitate transfer of the ink drops to recording medium . Such transfer roller technology is well known in the art. In the case of page width printheads it is most convenient to move recording medium past a stationary printhead. However in the case of scanning print systems it is usually most convenient to move the printhead along one axis the sub scanning direction and the recording medium along an orthogonal axis the main scanning direction in a relative raster motion.

Ink is contained in an ink reservoir under pressure. In the non printing state continuous ink jet drop streams are unable to reach recording medium due to an ink catcher that blocks the stream and which may allow a portion of the ink to be recycled by an ink recycling unit . The ink recycling unit reconditions the ink and feeds it back to reservoir . Such ink recycling units are well known in the art. The ink pressure suitable for optimal operation will depend on a number of factors including geometry and thermal properties of the nozzles and thermal properties of the ink. A constant ink pressure can be achieved by applying pressure to ink reservoir under the control of ink pressure regulator . As shown in catcher is a type of catcher commonly referred to as a knife edge catcher.

The ink is distributed to printhead through an ink channel . The ink preferably flows through slots and or holes etched through a silicon substrate of printhead to its front surface where a plurality of nozzles and drop forming mechanisms for example heaters are situated. When printhead is fabricated from silicon drop forming mechanism control circuits can be integrated with the printhead. Printhead also includes a deflection mechanism not shown in which is described in more detail below with reference to .

Referring to a schematic view of continuous liquid printhead is shown. A jetting module of printhead includes an array or a plurality of nozzles formed in a nozzle plate . In nozzle plate is affixed to jetting module . However as shown in nozzle plate can be integrally formed with jetting module .

Liquid for example ink is emitted under pressure through each nozzle of the array to form filaments of liquid . In the array or plurality of nozzles extends into and out of the figure.

Jetting module is operable to form liquid drops having a first size and liquid drops having a second size through each nozzle. To accomplish this jetting module includes a drop stimulation or drop forming device for example a heater or a piezoelectric actuator that when selectively activated perturbs each filament of liquid for example ink to induce portions of each filament to breakoff from the filament and coalesce to form drops .

In drop forming device is a heater located in a nozzle plate on one or both sides of nozzle . This type of drop formation is known and has been described in for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 457 807 B1 issued to Hawkins et al. on Oct. 1 2002 U.S. Pat. No. 6 491 362 B1 issued to Jeanmaire on Dec. 10 2002 U.S. Pat. No. 6 505 921 B2 issued to Chwalek et al. on Jan. 14 2003 U.S. Pat. No. 6 554 410 B2 issued to Jeanmaire et al. on Apr. 29 2003 U.S. Pat. No. 6 575 566 B1 issued to Jeanmaire et al. on Jun. 10 2003 U.S. Pat. No. 6 588 888 B2 issued to Jeanmaire et al. on Jul. 8 2003 U.S. Pat. No. 6 793 328 B2 issued to Jeanmaire on Sep. 21 2004 U.S. Pat. No. 6 827 429 B2 issued to Jeanmaire et al. on Dec. 7 2004 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 851 796 B2 issued to Jeanmaire et al. on Feb. 8 2005 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein.

Typically one drop forming device is associated with each nozzle of the nozzle array. However a drop forming device can be associated with groups of nozzles or all of nozzles of the nozzle array.

When printhead is in operation drops are typically created in a plurality of sizes or volumes for example in the form of large drops a first size or volume and small drops a second size or volume. The ratio of the mass of the large drops to the mass of the small drops is typically approximately an integer between 2 and 10. A drop stream including drops follows a drop path or trajectory .

Printhead also includes a gas flow deflection mechanism that directs a flow of gas for example air past a portion of the drop trajectory . This portion of the drop trajectory is called the deflection zone . As the flow of gas interacts with drops in deflection zone it alters the drop trajectories. As the drop trajectories pass out of the deflection zone they are traveling at an angle called a deflection angle relative to the undeflected drop trajectory .

Small drops are more affected by the flow of gas than are large drops so that the small drop trajectory diverges from the large drop trajectory . That is the deflection angle for small drops is larger than for large drops . The flow of gas provides sufficient drop deflection and therefore sufficient divergence of the small and large drop trajectories so that catcher shown in can be positioned to intercept one of the small drop trajectory and the large drop trajectory so that drops following the trajectory are collected by catcher while drops following the other trajectory bypass the catcher and impinge a recording medium shown in .

When catcher is positioned to intercept large drop trajectory small drops are deflected sufficiently to avoid contact with catcher and strike the print media. As the small drops are printed this is called small drop print mode. When catcher is positioned to intercept small drop trajectory large drops are the drops that print. This is referred to as large drop print mode.

Referring to jetting module includes an array or a plurality of nozzles . Liquid for example ink supplied through channel is emitted under pressure through each nozzle of the array to form filaments of liquid . In the array or plurality of nozzles extends into and out of the figure.

Drop stimulation or drop forming device shown in associated with jetting module is selectively actuated to perturb the filament of liquid to induce portions of the filament to break off from the filament to form drops. In this way drops are selectively created in the form of large drops and small drops that travel toward a recording medium .

Positive pressure gas flow structure of gas flow deflection mechanism is located on a first side of drop trajectory . Positive pressure gas flow structure includes first gas flow duct that includes a lower wall and an upper wall . Gas flow duct directs gas flow supplied from a positive pressure source at downward angle of approximately a 45 relative to liquid filament toward drop deflection zone also shown in . An optional seal s provides an air seal between jetting module and upper wall of gas flow duct .

Upper wall of gas flow duct does not need to extend to drop deflection zone as shown in . In upper wall ends at a wall of jetting module . Wall of jetting module serves as a portion of upper wall ending at drop deflection zone .

Negative pressure gas flow structure of gas flow deflection mechanism is located on a second side of drop trajectory . Negative pressure gas flow structure includes a second gas flow duct located between catcher and an upper wall that exhausts gas flow from deflection zone . Second duct is connected to a negative pressure source that is used to help remove gas flowing through second duct . An optional seal s provides an air seal between jetting module and upper wall .

As shown in gas flow deflection mechanism includes positive pressure source and negative pressure source . However depending on the specific application contemplated gas flow deflection mechanism can include only one of positive pressure source and negative pressure source .

Gas supplied by first gas flow duct is directed into the drop deflection zone where it causes large drops to follow large drop trajectory and small drops to follow small drop trajectory . As shown in small drop trajectory is intercepted by a front face of catcher . Small drops contact face and flow down face and into a liquid return duct located or formed between catcher and a plate . Collected liquid is either recycled and returned to ink reservoir shown in for reuse or discarded. Large drops bypass catcher and travel on to recording medium . Alternatively catcher can be positioned to intercept large drop trajectory . Large drops contact catcher and flow into a liquid return duct located or formed in catcher . Collected liquid is either recycled for reuse or discarded.

As shown in catcher is a type of catcher commonly referred to as a Coanda catcher. However the knife edge catcher shown in and the Coanda catcher shown in are interchangeable and work equally well. Alternatively catcher can be of any suitable design including but not limited to a porous face catcher a delimited edge catcher or combinations of any of those described above.

Referring to an example embodiment of the present invention is shown. Generally described the present invention relates to a gas flow duct structure in fluid communication with a gas flow source that includes an expansion region and a compression region . Configuring a gas flow duct structure in this fashion helps to reduce and or control gas flow turbulence described above.

The gas flow source can be a positive pressure gas flow source that directs a gas flow toward the compression region of a positive pressure gas flow duct structure . Alternatively the gas flow source can be a negative pressure gas flow source that directs a gas flow away from the compression region of a negative pressure gas flow duct structure . As such the present invention is described herein with reference to a positive pressure gas flow source and a positive pressure gas flow duct structure . However it is to be understood that the present invention is also applicable to a negative pressure gas flow duct structure and a negative pressure gas flow duct structure .

Printhead includes nozzle array having a width . A gas flow duct structure in fluid communication with a gas flow source includes an expansion region and a compression region .

Expansion region having a cross sectional length and a cross sectional width A B includes a first portion and a second portion . First portion of expansion region of gas flow duct is coupled to gas flow source through duct structure . Expansion region of gas flow duct gradually expands along its cross sectional length to at least the width of nozzle array as viewed from first portion of expansion region toward second portion of expansion region . Cross sectional width B of expansion region in second portion of expansion region is greater than cross sectional width A of expansion region in first portion of expansion region of gas flow duct .

As used herein gradually expands means that at a minimum the width from A to B of the gas flow path is increased at a non perpendicular angle relative to a centerline of the gas flow path. Preferably the non perpendicular angle of expansion is less than 60 degrees relative to the centerline and more preferably less than 45 degrees. Providing a non perpendicular angle of expansion reduces gas flow velocity and increases the cross section of gas flow while minimizing the introduction of turbulent gas flow into gas flow path. This can be contrasted with the abrupt and immediate expansion described in for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 297 712 issued to Lammers et al. on Oct. 27 1981. As shown in FIG. 2 of the 712 reference a gas flows from conduit to settling chamber . The angle of expansion is perpendicular relative to a centerline of conduit which introduces turbulence into settling chamber .

It is preferable that the definition of gradually expands also include that the individual radii of the curvature between different portions of the expansion region are greater than 0.5 times the cross sectional width A in the first portion of the expansion region with adjacent curves meeting at the tangent of the curves. More preferably the individual radii of curvature are greater than 2 times the inlet width and more preferably greater than 3 times the inlet width.

Gradually expanding expansion region of gas flow duct along its cross sectional length preferably causes the length of the expansion region to be greater than 3 times the inlet width and more preferably approximately 6 times the inlet width while still maintaining a relatively compact footprint.

Referring additionally to and back to compression region having a cross section sectional length and a cross sectional width A B includes a third portion and a fourth portion . Third portion of the compression region is adjacent to second portion of expansion region . Compression region of gas flow duct gradually contracts along its cross sectional length as viewed from third portion of the compression region toward fourth portion of the compression region . Cross sectional width B of compression region in the fourth portion of the compression region is less than the cross sectional width A of the compression region in the third portion of the compression region .

As used herein gradually contracts means that at a minimum the width from A to B of the gas flow path is decreased at a non perpendicular angle relative to a centerline of the gas flow path. Preferably the non perpendicular angle of contraction is less than 60 degrees relative to the centerline and more preferably less than 38 degrees. Providing a non perpendicular angle of contraction increases gas flow velocity and reduces velocity variations while minimizing or even preventing the introduction of turbulent gas flow into gas flow path. For example as shown in the cross sectional width B of the fourth portion of the compression region is less than or equal to one half of the cross sectional width A of the third portion of the compression region .

It is preferable that the definition of gradually contracts also include that the individual radii of the curvature between different portions of the expansion region are greater than 0.5 times the cross sectional width B in the second portion of the contraction region with adjacent curves meeting at the tangent of the curves. More preferably the individual radii of curvature are greater than 1 times the cross sectional width B.

After the gas flow passes through compression region it travels through duct structure that includes a duct wall that is parallel to wall of the jetting module . This parallel flow region defined by duct wall and jetting module wall helps to maintain the uniform velocity and directionality of the gas flow. As the flow path moves through a curve or change in direction a portion of duct wall is curved or otherwise appropriately shaped to maintain the parallel flow region and the uniform velocity and directionality of the gas flow in the area immediately adjacent to deflection zone .

In some example embodiments cross sectional width A B of expansion region is a first cross sectional width A B. Expansion region also includes a second cross sectional width A B. In these embodiments expansion region of the gas flow duct expands along its cross sectional length as viewed from first portion of expansion region toward second portion of expansion region . The second cross sectional width B of expansion region in second portion of expansion region is greater than second cross sectional width A of expansion region in the first portion of expansion region also shown in . In these example embodiments the cross sectional width A B of compression region and the second cross sectional width A B of the expansion region are viewed in the same plane typically a plane perpendicular to the direction of drop path for example the plane shown in .

As described above third portion of compression region is adjacent to second portion of expansion region . In this sense third portion of compression region can be either positioned next to second portion of expansion region as shown with reference to negative pressure gas flow structure or a third region can be positioned between second portion of expansion region and third portion of compression region as shown with reference to positive pressure gas flow structure .

Third region of gas flow duct has a substantially uniform cross sectional length and a substantially uniform cross sectional width . Providing third region with a substantially uniform cross sectional length and a substantially uniform cross sectional width facilitates positioning a flow conditioner s in third region of gas flow duct and changing the direction of gas flow . As shown in flow conditioner s includes a first screen and a second screen positioned perpendicular to the direction of gas flow through third region of the gas flow duct . First screen and a second screen should be uniformly tensioned in both directions along the cross sectional width and cross sectional length of the third region of gas flow duct . Additionally the weave of the screen should be at a non perpendicular non parallel angle relative to the walls of third region of gas flow duct . For example the weave of the screens is preferably between 30 degrees and 60 degrees and more preferably approximately 45 degrees. The resolution of the weave of the screen is preferably greater than 0.75 times the width of the nozzle array.

Flow conditioner s for example first screen and second screen help to make the gas flow velocity uniform across the nozzle array width by providing a static pressure drop across each screen. It is also believed that the build up of back pressure behind flow conditioner s helps to reduce the likelihood of gas flow detaching from the duct walls in expansion region which also helps to reduce turbulent gas flow. Screens and can be made from metal nylon polyester or other polymer materials.

Alternatively flow conditioner s can include flow straighteners open celled foams or combinations of any flow conditioners previously mentioned. Third region of gas flow duct commonly referred to as a settling chamber is also shaped to change the direction of gas flow represented using arrow .

Referring to and the example embodiment of the present invention described above with reference to is shown along with schematic cross sectional views of the example embodiment taken along the corresponding section lines shown in .

Duct structure is typically used to extend the path of gas flow so that positive pressure source can be conveniently located. The cross sectional width of the gas flow path in duct structure is the same as the cross sectional width A of expansion region in first portion of expansion region of gas flow duct .

Duct structure is typically used to extend the path of gas flow so that negative pressure source can be conveniently located. The cross sectional width of the gas flow path in duct structure is the same as the cross sectional width A of expansion region in first portion of expansion region of gas flow duct .

As shown in FIGS. and A K first portion of expansion region of positive pressure gas flow duct structure has cross sectional width A that gradually expands along its cross sectional length until cross sectional width B of second portion of expansion region is at least the width of nozzle array . Cross sectional width B of second portion of expansion region is greater than cross sectional width A of first portion of expansion region .

Third region of gas flow duct has a substantially uniform cross sectional length that is essentially equivalent to cross sectional width B of second portion of expansion region and maintained through the cross sectional width A of the third portion of the compression region . Compression region of gas flow duct then gradually contracts along its cross sectional length until cross sectional width B of the fourth portion of the compression region is less than the cross sectional width A of the third portion of the compression region . Positive pressure gas flow source directs gas flow toward the compression region of positive pressure gas flow duct structure .

First portion of expansion region of negative pressure gas flow duct structure has cross sectional width A that gradually expands along its cross sectional length until cross sectional width B of second portion of expansion region is at least the width of nozzle array and or is greater than cross sectional width A of first portion of expansion region .

Compression region of gas flow duct gradually contracts along its cross sectional length until cross sectional width B of the fourth portion of the compression region is less than the cross sectional width A of the third portion of the compression region . Negative pressure gas flow source directs gas flow away from the compression region of negative pressure gas flow duct structure .

Inclusion of intermediate portions and also helps to illustrate the gradual expansion of expansion region in that it shows that there is not an abrupt or immediate expansion of the gas flow path as shown and detailed in the prior art references described above . Instead the expansion of the gas flow path in expansion region is a gradual change from the initial cross sectional width to the final cross sectional width as described above .

Referring back to gas flow duct and is typically assembled from a plurality of individual flow ducts typically made from a polymer material. In order to further reduce turbulent gas flow it is important to minimize steps or discontinuities when assembling the individual ducts. Additionally the interior surfaces of the individual duct portions are polished for example to less than a 65 10inch RMS roughness in order to minimize turbulent gas flow. This degree of surface roughness is very important in the positive pressure gas flow duct structure in order to minimize turbulent gas flow after the gas flow passes through flow conditioner s because there is no other device that can minimize turbulent gas flow if turbulent gas flow re develops prior to the gas flow entering the drop deflection zone .

The invention has been described in detail with particular reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof but it will be understood that variations and modifications can be effected within the scope of the invention.

