---

title: Social network for shopping
abstract: A social network for shopping may be provided in which a user may provide a listing of an item they would like and the identity of a seller the item may be retrieved from. Another user may agree to pick up the item from the seller and deliver the item, perhaps for a small fee. The listing of the item may be posted on a website, sent to other users by a web feed such as RSS, sent by a text message, instant message, email, or communicated in any other manner to one or more users, etc. Alternatively, a user may post the identity of a seller that they are going to and ask if any users would like any items picked up from the seller and delivered to them, perhaps for a small fee.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08224707&OS=08224707&RS=08224707
owner: United Services Automobile Association
number: 08224707
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080820
---
This application is related by subject matter to that disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications the entirety of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 195 160 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 195 174 each filed on Aug. 20 2008 and each entitled Social Network For Shopping. 

Shopping is the examining of goods or services from sellers with intent to purchase at that time. To many shopping is considered an enjoyable or recreational activity.

To some however shopping is a task of inconvenience and takes up time that they would rather spend doing something else. Shoppers sometimes go though great lengths to wait in long lines to buy popular products. In addition to spending time making the purchase at the seller time must be spent traveling to the seller.

A social network for shopping may be provided in which a user may provide a listing of an item they would like and the identity of a seller the item may be retrieved from. Another user may agree to pick up the item from the seller and deliver the item perhaps for a small fee.

In an implementation the listing of the item may be posted on a website sent to other users by a web feed such as RSS sent by a text message instant message email or communicated in any other manner to one or more users etc.

In an implementation a user may post the identity of a seller that they are going to and may ask if any users would like any items picked up from the seller and delivered to them perhaps for a small fee.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Any computing device may be used as the deliverer computing device or the receiver computing device such as a personal computer PC a handheld computing device a cellular telephone or a personal digital assistant PDA . In an implementation the deliverer computing device and or the receiver computing device may be wireless handheld and may include a geographic positioner such as a GPS receiver which can be location pinpointed using known techniques. Cellular positioning technology may also be used for geographic positioning. The deliverer computing device and or the receiver computing device may include a cellular telephone capable of receiving and displaying non voice data and which may be location pinpointed using known techniques. An example computing device such as the deliverer computing device or the receiver computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

The network provides access to services such as the World Wide Web the web . The web allows the client computer s such as the deliverer computing device and the receiver computing device to access documents containing text based or multimedia content contained in e.g. pages e.g. web pages or other documents maintained and served by the server computer s . Typically this is done with a web browser application program referred to herein as a web browser or browser executing in the client computer s such as browser and browser executing in the deliverer computing device and the receiver computing device respectively.

The location of each page may be indicated by an associated uniform resource locator URL that is entered into the web browser application program to access the page . Many of the pages may include hyperlinks to other pages . The hyperlinks may also be in the form of URLs. Content accessed by the client s may also be dynamically generated e.g. from a database maintained and served by the server s .

A seller is provided and may be any type of vendor or merchant of any type of good or service referred to herein as an item. For example the seller may be a retail store such as a bookstore a candy shop a gift shop a hardware store a hobby store a pet store a pharmacy a supermarket etc. Additional examples of the seller may be a big box store a convenience store a department store a general store a dollar store or any other type of store that sells a wider variety of products. In an implementation the seller may be connected to the deliverer computing device the receiver computing device and or the server s by the network . The deliverer the receiver and the seller may also communicate with each other by phone email instant messaging text messaging facsimile mail and the like. Although one seller is shown in the environment any number of sellers may be provided in the environment .

The receiver may be an individual or an entity that provides a listing of an item that they would like to be picked up from a seller such as the seller and delivered to them or another party. The listing of the item may be posted on a website sent to clients by a web feed such as RSS sent by a text message instant message email or communicated in any other manner to one or more clients etc. The deliverer may be an individual or an entity that may pick up the item from the seller and deliver the item to the receiver or a party specified by the receiver .

A social network is a social structure made of nodes which are generally individuals or organizations that are tied by one or more specific types of interdependency such as values visions ideas financial exchange friendship kinship dislike conflict or trade for example. In an implementation a social network for shopping may comprise one or more websites that provide a virtual community in which people with a shared interest in shopping may communicate. As described further herein in an implementation the environment may host a social network for shopping in which a user such as the receiver may post a listing of an item they would like and the identity e.g. name location etc. of a seller the item may be retrieved from. Another user such as the deliverer may agree to pick up the item from the seller and deliver the item to the receiver perhaps for a small fee thereby saving the receiver from making a trip to the seller .

In another implementation a user such as the deliverer may post the identity of the seller that they are going to and ask if any users such as the receiver would like any items picked up and delivered to them perhaps for a small fee. Thus the receiver may save time and or transportation costs by having the deliverer go to the seller for them to pick up and deliver an item such as the item that the receiver would like to obtain e.g. by purchase from the seller .

The listing may provide information about an item that the receiver would like another user to pick up and deliver to the receiver or another party specified by the receiver. The receiver may provide information about where the item may be picked up e.g. an identity and location of the seller and where the item may be delivered to e.g. location criteria how much the receiver would pay for the item and a fee the receiver would pay another user e.g. a deliverer to pick up and deliver the item e.g. price criteria when the receiver would like the item picked up and delivered by e.g. time criteria etc. The receiver may also provide information regarding payment for the item such as whether the receiver will prepay the user who picks up and delivers the item whether the receiver will prepay the seller for the item or whether the user who picks up and delivers the item is to purchase the item and the receiver will reimburse the purchase price to them for example.

At another user referred to as the deliverer may view the listing and reply to the listing. A reply may be provided via a website associated with the social network for shopping for example such as the website that the receiver posted the listing on. Alternatively or additionally a reply may be sent from the deliverer to the receiver by email text message instant message phone facsimile etc. The deliverer may tentatively agree to pick up the item and deliver the item to the receiver. The reply may contain information pertaining to the purchase payment pick up and or delivery of the item.

In an implementation an indication may be provided on the listing after the deliverer has tentatively agreed to pick up and deliver the item. For example the listing may be shaded highlighted grayed out etc. to indicate that the listing has been replied to and a transaction is tentatively in progress. In this manner other users who may view the listing may be aware that another user has already offered to pick up and deliver the item to the receiver. The listing may not be removed until the item has been delivered to the receiver or the transaction has otherwise been completed.

At the receiver and the deliverer may be put into communication with each other and may confirm details of the transaction. The receiver and the deliverer may communicate via a website email phone text message instant message facsimile etc. to arrange for pick up and delivery of the item. Details of the transaction that may be confirmed may include the item e.g. model number size color etc. the price how payment is to be made fee for pick up and delivery seller name and location timing of the pick up and delivery etc. In an implementation authentication may be performed with respect to the identities of the receiver and the deliverer and may be used to ensure that the receiver and deliverer are able to properly and securely identify each other during the transaction. Any known authentication techniques may be used. For example a secret code may be assigned to the listing. The receiver and the deliverer may both receive the code and may subsequently compare codes to confirm identities.

At the receiver may pay for the item. In an implementation the receiver may pay the seller for the item prior to the pick up and delivery of the item. For example the receiver may pay the seller for the item via a website associated with the seller prior to the deliverer picking up the item. Alternatively the receiver may pay the seller for the item in person at the store via telephone or facsimile via mail or via email for example. After paying the seller for the item the receiver may receive a confirmation code transaction number receipt or other information that the receiver may provide to the deliverer that may provide proof of payment for the item and allow the deliverer to pick up the item from the seller.

Alternatively the receiver may pay the deliverer for the item either before or after the deliverer has picked up and or delivered the item. In such a case the deliverer may pay the seller for the item e.g. when picking up the item from the seller. The receiver may pay the deliverer using any known payment method.

At the deliverer may go to the seller of the item and pick up the item. If the receiver had previously paid the seller for the item the deliverer may provide identification or other information to the seller regarding the purchase and or authorization to pick up the item on the receiver s behalf. If the receiver had not previously paid the seller for the item the deliverer may pay the seller for the item.

At the deliverer may deliver the item to the receiver or a party specified by the receiver at an agreed upon location such as the receiver s house or other location where the receiver or specified party may take possession of the item. At the deliverer may receive a fee for picking up and delivering the item to the deliverer. The fee may be paid by the receiver to the deliverer either before or after pick up and or delivery and may be a fee that has been agreed upon by the receiver and the deliverer. The payment of the fee from the receiver to the deliverer may be made using any known payment method. In an implementation the deliverer may not receive a fee by choice. The deliverer may wish to pick up and deliver the item without receiving a fee.

At feedback concerning the pick up and delivery transaction may be provided by the receiver and or the deliverer. Feedback regarding the deliverer may be provided by the receiver and feedback regarding the receiver may be provided by the deliverer. The feedback may be provided to a website associated with the social network for shopping and may be available to the receiver the deliverer and other users of the social network. The feedback may be used for rating and or ranking of the receiver and the deliverer.

The system may include an institution system which may be associated with any type of entity capable of maintaining accounts and providing funds to and from accounts. For example the institution system may be associated with a financial services institution such as a retail bank an investment bank an investment company etc. Each account may be any type of account for depositing and or providing funds such as a savings account a checking account a brokerage account and the like. The institution system may hold a deliverer account for the deliverer and a receiver account for the receiver . The deliverer and the receiver may deposit funds in their associated account.

The deliverer or the receiver may access the institution system by opening a communication pathway via the network using their associated computing device. There may be several ways in which the communication pathway may be established including but not limited to an Internet connection via a website of the institution system . The deliverer or the receiver may access the website and log into the website using credentials such as but not limited to a username and a password.

The institution system may include a user interface module . The user interface module may generate and format one or more pages of content as a unified graphical presentation that may be provided to the deliverer computing device or the receiver computing device . In an implementation the page s of content may be provided to the deliverer computing device or the receiver computing device via a secure website such as the website .

The institution system may act as an intermediary to facilitate payment for the items and pick up and delivery fees from the receiver and payment of pick up and delivery fees and in some cases item purchase prices to the deliverer . The institution system may maintain the deliverer account and the receiver account to facilitate the payments and transfers of funds.

In an implementation the institution system may host or maintain a website that contains the listings that may be posted and or viewed by the deliverer or the receiver as described further herein.

For example the institution system may include any combination of systems and sub systems such as electronic devices including but not limited to computers servers databases or the like. The electronic devices may include any combination of hardware components such as processors databases storage drives registers cache random access memory RAM chips data buses or the like and or software components such as operating systems database management applications or the like. According to an embodiment the electronic devices may include a network based server that may maintain a website and provide access to accounts held by the institution system .

The institution system has access to data files and documents pertaining to the receiver and or the deliverer as well as any other data files and documents that are internal or external to the institution system that may be useful in posting a listing for an item revising a listing and or facilitating a transaction between the receiver and the deliverer for example.

The institution system has the ability to retrieve information from one or more data sources . Data pertaining to the deliverer the deliverer account the receiver and or the receiver account may be retrieved from data source s and or external data sources. The retrieved data may be stored centrally. Other information may be provided to the institution system from the receiver and or the deliverer .

Data source s may contain data metadata email files and or documents that the institution system maintains pertaining to the receiver and or the deliverer such as personal data such as name physical address email address etc. and financial data such as credit card numbers and checking account numbers. Such data may be useful for posting a listing for an item revising a listing and or facilitating a transaction as described herein. Additionally or alternatively the institution system may access this information when moving funds into or out from an account.

Each computing device e.g. the deliverer computing device the receiver computing device etc. may provide user access to a system which is coupled to the institution system and is configured to receive a plurality of user requests at least one of which is a request to post view or reply to item listings or to view transaction status. A system may be configured to format and transmit a graphical user interface to a user and through the graphical user interface provide the user with the ability to interact with and manipulate the data provided by the institution system .

A user access system may be implemented as a web server in an implementation. The user access system through the use of any suitable interactive web technology provides an interactive experience to the receiver and or the deliverer through which access to listing and transaction data and status and related data can be accomplished. Any technology that provides interactivity through a web browser is considered to be within the scope of the present discussion and may include without limitation Hyper Text Mark Up Language HTML Dynamic HTML DHTML JavaScript and Ajax.

The institution system may comprise one or more computing devices . The computing device s may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules. The computing device s may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein.

Examples of software modules may include modules that may be used in conjunction with receiving posting and revising a listing maintaining listings of items processing a transaction generating web page content for display and receiving instructions from the deliverer or the receiver for example. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

At a user such as the receiver may post a listing for an item. Similar to of the listing may be posted on a website associated with a social network for shopping or may be sent to one or more users by email text message instant message RSS feed etc. In addition to other information such as that described with respect to for example the listing may indicate that payment for the item and or payment of a pick up and delivery fee may be made from an account associated with an institution system and or to an account associated with the institution system.

At similar to another user such as the deliverer may view the listing and reply to the listing. At similar to the receiver and the deliverer may be put into communication with each other and may confirm details of the transaction. In addition to those details described with respect to for example the receiver and the deliverer may agree to have a funds transfer between the receiver and the deliverer be performed by the institution system. This may provide additional security to the receiver and the deliverer to ensure their compliance with the details of the transaction.

At the receiver may pay the deliverer for the item and the pick up and delivery fee from an account of the receiver held by the institution system. In this manner the institution system may ensure that the receiver has sufficient funds to pay for the item and fee. In an implementation the receiver may pay the deliverer for the item by transferring funds from the receiver account to a deliverer account held by the institution system. The institution system may facilitate the transfer of funds by acting as an intermediary between the receiver and the deliverer. Thus the receiver may not have direct access to the account of the deliverer and vice versa.

The transfer of funds relating to the purchase price of the item and the pick up and delivery fee may be made either before or after the deliverer has picked up and or delivered the item. The transfer of funds relating to the purchase price of the item may be made separately from or together with the transfer of funds relating to the pick up and delivery fee. In an alternative implementation the institution system may pay funds from the receiver account to the deliverer via check or any other payment method in which funds are withdrawn from the receiver account.

At the deliverer may go to the seller of the item pay for the item and pick up the item. At similar to the deliverer may deliver the item to the receiver or a party specified by the receiver at an agreed upon location. At similar to feedback concerning the transaction may be provided by the receiver and or the deliverer.

At a user such as the receiver may post a listing for an item on a website associated with and or maintained by the institution system. Alternatively or additionally the receiver may send the listing to one or more users by email text message instant message RSS feed etc. via the institution system. As with of for example the listing may indicate that payment for the item and or payment of a pick up and delivery fee may be made from an account associated with an institution system and or to an account associated with the institution system.

At another user such as the deliverer may view the listing and reply to the listing. The user may reply to the listing via the institution system such as via a website associated with and or maintained by the institution system. The institution system may provide the reply to the receiver. Alternatively the user may reply to the listing outside of the institution system similar to of for example.

At the receiver and the deliverer may be put into communication with each other via the institution system and may confirm details of the transaction. Thus the institution system may receive a listing from the receiver and forward it to users who may include a potential deliverer and the institution system may receive a reply from the deliverer and forward it to the receiver. In an implementation subsequent communications between the receiver and the deliverer may take place through the institution system. In this manner the receiver and deliverer may not be in direct contact with each other and instead may communicate through the institution system which may act as an intermediary between the receiver and the deliverer. This provides a layer of security to the receiver and the deliverer.

Operations and may be similar to and described with respect to the method of . At the receiver may pay the deliverer for the item and the pick up and delivery fee from an account of the receiver held by the institution system. The institution system may ensure that the receiver has sufficient funds and may facilitate the transfer of funds by acting as an intermediary between the receiver and the deliverer. At the deliverer may go to the seller of the item pay for the item and pick up the item. At the deliverer may deliver the item to the receiver or a party specified by the receiver at an agreed upon location.

At feedback concerning the transaction may be provided by the receiver and or the deliverer. The feedback may be requested collected processed analyzed and maintained by the institution system. The feedback may be made available to users of the social network for shopping. In an implementation the feedback may be used to generate ratings and or rankings for the users of the social network for shopping including the receiver and the deliverer.

At a user such as the deliverer may post a listing for an item they are going to buy or may post a listing identifying a seller e.g. supermarket hardware store etc. or location e.g. San Francisco London etc. they are traveling to or already present at. The listing may offer to pick up and deliver the item to a user a receiver or may offer to pick up and deliver an item that may be sold by the seller or sold or otherwise available at the location. The listing may be posted on a website associated with a social network for shopping for example. Alternatively or additionally the listing may be sent to one or more users by email text message instant message RSS feed etc. For example the deliverer may post or send a listing from a handheld computing device when the deliverer is at a particular seller or location.

The deliverer may provide e.g. in the listing location criteria such as where they will deliver an item price criteria such as how much they will spend on an item or how much they will spend for the receiver without the receiver prepaying for an item time criteria such as when the deliverer may deliver the item to the receiver and geographic criteria such as how far the deliverer will travel to pick up an item. The deliverer may indicate a pick up and delivery fee that the receiver may pay and may indicate product criteria and or restrictions. For example the deliverer may indicate that they will not purchase pick up or deliver certain types of items such as perishable items large or bulky items or items that may be subject to purchase and or distribution restrictions.

At one or more other users each being a potential receiver may view the listing and reply to the listing. The receiver may indicate an item they would like the deliverer to pick up and deliver. The receiver may provide certain criteria that may be met prior to the deliverer purchasing an item such as price criteria location criteria and or time criteria for example. For example the receiver may only want the item if the deliverer can purchase the item for a certain price e.g. less than a certain price no higher than a certain price etc. . As another example the receiver may only want the item if the deliverer can deliver the item to a certain location within a certain time frame.

In an implementation the receiver may send a picture such as a digital image to the deliverer of the item that the receiver would like the deliverer to pick up and deliver. Alternatively or additionally the deliverer may send a picture to the receiver of an item prior to picking up the item. For example the receiver or the deliverer may capture a picture of an item using a camera phone e.g. a mobile phone having a camera and transmit the picture using the camera phone. This may help to ensure that the deliverer picks up the correct item for delivery to the receiver.

At similar to of the receiver and deliverer may be put into communication with each other and confirm details of the transaction. At the deliverer may go to the seller of the item and pick up the item. As described with respect to of if the receiver had previously paid the seller for the item the deliverer may provide identification or other information to the seller regarding the purchase and or authorization to pick up the item on the receiver s behalf. If the receiver had not previously paid the seller for the item the deliverer may pay the seller for the item. At the deliverer may deliver the item to the receiver at an agreed upon location. In an implementation if the deliverer is picking up items for multiple receivers the deliverer may set a central pick up location for all the receivers to come to for the item delivery.

At the receiver may pay for the item and may pay a pick up and delivery fee. In an implementation as described with respect to the method of the receiver may pay the seller for the item prior to the pick up and delivery of the item such as via a website associated with the seller via telephone or facsimile via mail or via email for example. Alternatively the receiver may pay the deliverer for the item either before or after the deliverer has picked up and or delivered the item. In such a case the deliverer may pay the seller for the item e.g. when picking up the item from the seller. The receiver may pay the deliverer using any known payment method.

At similar to for example feedback concerning the transaction may be provided by the receiver and or the deliverer. The feedback may be used for rating and or ranking of the receiver and the deliverer and may be available to the receiver the deliverer and other users of the social network for shopping.

It will be appreciated that the examples herein are for purposes of illustration and explanation only and that an embodiment is not limited to such examples.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and includes both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

