---

title: Power semiconductor devices with mesa structures and buffer layers including mesa steps
abstract: A bipolar junction transistor includes a collector having a first conductivity type, a drift layer having the first conductivity type on the collector, a base layer on the drift layer and having a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type, a lightly doped buffer layer having the first conductivity type on the base layer and forming a p-n junction with the base layer, and an emitter mesa having the first conductivity type on the buffer layer and having a sidewall. The buffer layer includes a mesa step adjacent to and spaced laterally apart from the sidewall of the emitter mesa, and a first thickness of the buffer layer beneath the emitter mesa is greater than a second thickness of the buffer layer outside the mesa step.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07838377&OS=07838377&RS=07838377
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 07838377
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080909
---
The present application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 986 694 filed Nov. 9 2007 entitled SILICON CARBIDE BIPOLAR JUNCTION TRANSISTOR the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. W911 NF 04 2 0022 awarded by Anny Research Laboratory. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to microelectronic devices and more particularly to power semiconductor devices.

High voltage silicon carbide SiC devices can handle voltages above about 600V or more. Such devices may handle as much as about 100 amps or more of current depending on their active area. High voltage SiC devices have a number of important applications particularly in the field of power conditioning distribution and control. High voltage semiconductor devices such as Schottky diodes MOSFETs GTOs IGBTs BJTs etc. have been fabricated using silicon carbide.

A conventional SiC power device such as a SiC Schottky diode structure has an n type SiC substrate on which an n epitaxial layer which functions as a drift region is formed. The device typically includes a Schottky contact formed directly on the n layer. Surrounding the Schottky contact is a p type JTE junction termination extension region that is typically formed by ion implantation. The implants may be aluminum boron or any other suitable p type dopant. The purpose of the JTE region is to reduce electric field crowding at the edges of the junction and to reduce or prevent the depletion region from interacting with the surface of the device. Surface effects may cause the depletion region to spread unevenly which may adversely affect the breakdown voltage of the device. Other termination techniques include guard rings and floating field rings that may be more strongly influenced by surface effects. A channel stop region may also be formed by implantation of n type dopants such as nitrogen or phosphorus in order to reduce extension of the depletion region toward the edge of the device.

In addition to junction termination extension JTE multiple floating guard rings MFGR and field plates FP are commonly used termination schemes in high voltage silicon carbide devices. Another conventional edge termination technique is a mesa edge termination. However the presence of a mesa termination may cause a high electric field to occur at the mesa corner even if a junction termination extension or guard ring is present. Over etching of the mesa can exacerbate the problem of electric field crowding at the mesa corner. A high electric field at the mesa corner may result in a much lower breakdown voltage than would otherwise be expected for a given drift layer thickness and doping.

A conventional mesa terminated PIN diode is illustrated in . As shown therein a PIN diode includes an n drift layer between a p layer and an n substrate . illustrates one half of a PIN stricture the structure may include mirror image portions not shown . An anode contact is on the p layer and a cathode contact is on the n substrate . The p layer is formed as a mesa on the n drift layer . A junction termination extension JTE region including a plurality of JTE zones A B C is provided in the n drift layer adjacent the p mesa . The JTE zones A B C are p type regions that may have levels of charge that decrease outwardly with distance from the PN junction between the p mesa and the n drift layer . Although three JTE zones A B C are illustrated more or fewer JTE zones may be provided.

As shown in the n drift layer adjacent the p mesa may be slightly over etched due for example to difficulties in etch process control so that a sidewall A of the n drift layer beneath the p mesa may be exposed. Over etching of up to about 3000 may occur in some cases. To protect the exposed sidewall A a sidewall implant may be performed in which p type impurities are implanted into the sidewall A to form a sidewall implant region .

In conventional mesa terminated structures such as the PIN diode structure illustrated in field crowding may occur at or near the mesa corners resulting in high electric field strengths at the corners . These high field strengths can reduce the breakdown voltage of the device. For example a conventional mesa terminated PIN diode structure that has a theoretical breakdown voltage of 12 kV based on thickness and doping of the drift layer and the JTE design may have an effective breakdown voltage of only 8 kV.

In addition to field crowding another challenge in the development of SiC power bipolar junction transistors BJTs is the phenomenon of current gain degradation that is a reduction in current gain over time in the device. Current gain degradation is typically attributed to material defects such as basal plane dislocations BPDs and to surface recombination especially along the emitter sidewall and to surface of the base of the device. A slight reduction of current gain degradation on SiC BJTs fabricated on BPD free wafers has been observed. In addition the emitter fingers of SiC BJTs are typically formed by reactive ion etching RIE . The non uniformity of RIE etching rate can partially or completely etch away the base material around the wafer periphery which can cause a large reduction in yields.

A bipolar junction transistor according to some embodiments includes a collector having a first conductivity type a drift layer having the first conductivity type on the collector a base layer on the drift layer and having a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type a lightly doped buffer layer having the first conductivity type on the base layer and forming a p n junction with the more heavily doped base layer and an emitter mesa having the first conductivity type on the buffer layer and having a sidewall. The buffer layer includes a mesa step adjacent to and spaced laterally apart from the sidewall of the emitter mesa and a first thickness of the buffer layer beneath the emitter mesa is greater than a second thickness of the buffer layer outside the mesa step.

The bipolar junction transistor may further include a local emitter contact region on the emitter mesa. The local emitter contact region has the first conductivity type and has a doping concentration greater than a doping concentration of the emitter mesa. The local emitter contact region is laterally spaced apart from the sidewall of the emitter mesa. An emitter ohmic contact is on the local emitter contact region.

The local emitter contact region may be spaced from the sidewall of the emitter mesa by a distance of about 2 m or more.

The bipolar junction transistor may further include a conduction layer on the sidewall of the emitter mesa and extending to contact both the local emitter contact region and the buffer layer. The emitter ohmic contact may form an ohmic contact with the conduction layer.

The bipolar junction transistor may further include a base contact region extending into the base layer and having the second conductivity type and having a doping concentration greater than a doping concentration of the base layer. A base ohmic contact is on the base contact region.

The mesa step may have a height of about 0.3 m or less. Furthermore the mesa step may be spaced apart from the sidewall of the emitter mesa by a distance of about 2 m or more.

The buffer layer may have a doping concentration that is less than a doping concentration of the base layer. In some embodiments the buffer layer may have a doping concentration selected such that a portion of the buffer layer having the second thickness is fully depleted by the built in potential of the p n junction between the buffer layer and the base layer.

The collector the drift layer the base layer the buffer layer and the emitter mesa include silicon carbide.

A power semiconductor device according to some embodiments includes a first layer having a first conductivity type a second layer on the first layer the second layer having a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type and having a second doping concentration higher than a first doping concentration of the first layer. A third layer having the first conductivity type is on the second layer and forms a p n junction with the second layer. The third layer has a third doping concentration lower than the second doping concentration of the second layer. A mesa having the first conductivity type is the third layer and has a sidewall. The buffer layer may include a mesa step adjacent to and spaced laterally apart from the sidewall of the mesa. A first thickness of the third layer beneath the mesa is greater than a second thickness of the third layer outside the mesa step.

The power semiconductor device may further include a contact region on the mesa the contact region having the first conductivity type and having a fourth doping concentration greater than a fifth doping concentration of the mesa and being laterally spaced apart from the sidewall of the mesa. An ohmic contact is on the contact region.

The power semiconductor device may further include a conduction layer on the sidewall of the mesa and extending to contact both the contact region and the buffer layer and the ohmic contact may form an ohmic contact with the conduction layer.

Methods of forming an electronic device according to some embodiments include providing a drift layer having a first conductivity type providing a semiconductor layer on the drift layer the semiconductor layer having a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type providing a buffer layer having the first conductivity type on the semiconductor layer and selectively etching the buffer layer to form a mesa step that defines a first portion of the buffer layer having a first thickness and a second portion of the buffer layer having a second thickness that is less than the first thickness. The methods further include providing a mesa on the first portion of the buffer layer the mesa having the first conductivity type and having a mesa sidewall and that partially exposes the first portion of the buffer layer and that is laterally spaced apart from the mesa step of the buffer layer.

Embodiments of the present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms used herein should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of this specification and the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

Relative terms such as below above upper lower horizontal lateral vertical beneath over on etc. may be used herein to describe a relationship of one element layer or region to another element layer or region as illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that these terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures.

Embodiments of the invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments and intermediate structures of the invention. The thickness of layers and regions in the drawings may be exaggerated for clarity. Additionally variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example an implanted region illustrated as a rectangle will typically have rounded or curved features and or a gradient of implant concentration at its edges rather than a discrete change from implanted to non implanted region. Likewise a buried region formed by implantation may result in some implantation in the region between the buried region and the surface through which the implantation takes place. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the actual shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

Some embodiments of the invention are described with reference to semiconductor layers and or regions which are characterized as having a conductivity type such as n type or p type which refers to the majority carrier concentration in the layer and or region. Thus n type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of negatively charged electrons while p type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of positively charged holes. Some material may be designated with a or as in n n p p n n p p or the like to indicate a relatively larger or smaller concentration of majority carriers compared to another layer or region. However such notation does not imply the existence of a particular concentration of majority or minority carriers in a layer or region.

As noted above silicon carbide SiC Bipolar Junction Transistors BJT are considered to be appropriate devices for high power high temperature and or high frequency applications. However such devices can suffer from current gain degradation in which current voltage characteristics of the devices deteriorate over time and or with operating stress. Conventional technology addresses current degradation in SiC BJT devices by incorporating a ledge layer deposited on the device surface by epitaxial regrowth. However the crystal damage caused by an RIE and or inductively coupled plasma ICP dry etching process after forming the ledge is not removed with the result that the surface recombination velocity may not be improved significantly. During the on state of the BJT device collector current crowding aggravates the carrier recombination on the emitter sidewall which may enhance Auger recombination and or interface trap generation.

Embodiments of the present invention may reduce and or eliminate surface recombination along the emitter sidewall and or on the base top surface thus potentially reducing and or eliminating current gain degradation.

A device stricture according to some embodiments of the invention may include one or more features that may alone or collectively reduce interface trap generation by altering the current conduction path through the device. In some embodiments altering the current conduction path through the device may reduce and or alleviate problems that may arise from the use of dry etching.

Embodiments of the invention in an NPN BJT structure are described below. However the invention may be embodied in many other power bipolar devices such as IGBTs GTOs etc.

A simplified cross sectional view of a BJT according to some embodiments is shown in . The BJT structure includes a collector having a first conductivity type i.e. n type or p type a lightly doped drift layer on the collector and having the first conductivity type and base layer on the drift layer and having a second conductivity type i.e. p type or n type opposite the first conductivity type. The base layer is more heavily doped than the drift layer and may for example have a doping concentration of about 3 10cmto about 5 10cm.

The semiconductor layers in the structure may be formed as epitaxial and or implanted regions of silicon carbide. However it will be appreciated that structures according to some embodiments can be formed using other materials methods.

For example the drift layer may be formed from silicon carbide of the 2H 4H 6H 3C and or 15R polytype having a doping concentration of about 2 10to about 1 10cm. The thickness and doping of the drift layer may be chosen to provide a desired blocking voltage and or on resistance. For example for a device having a blocking voltage of 10 kV the drift layer may have a thickness of about 100 m and a doping of about 2 10cm.

The collector may be a growth substrate and in some embodiments may include a bulk single crystal of 2H 4H 6H 3C and or 15R polytype on or off axis silicon carbide. The collector may have a doping concentration of about 1 10cmto about 5 10cm. In some embodiments the drift layer may comprise a bulk single crystal 4H or 6H SiC substrate and the collector may comprise an implanted or epitaxial region on the drift layer .

A lightly doped buffer layer having the first conductivity type is formed on the base layer and an emitter mesa having the first conductivity type is formed on the buffer layer . Because the buffer layer and the base layer have opposite conductivity types a metallurgical p n junction J is formed at the interface between the buffer layer and the base layer . The buffer layer may have a doping concentration that is less than the base layer so that the depletion region of the p n junction J may extend far enough into the buffer layer to deplete a significant portion of the buffer layer .

The buffer layer includes a mesa step adjacent the emitter mesa . The mesa step in the buffer layer may reduce current crowding at the emitter base corner by providing a step at the mesa corner. Furthermore the mesa step may provide an increased resistance that may cause the base current to retreat away from the surface of the buffer layer .

The mesa step may be formed by selectively etching the lightly doped buffer layer on the top of the base layer . For example the buffer layer may be formed as an epitaxial layer having a thickness of about 0.3 m to about 0.5 m on the base layer . The buffer layer may have a doping concentration of about 1 10cmto about 5 10cm and in particular about 1 10cm. The buffer layer may be masked and anisotropically etched to reduce a thickness of a portion of the buffer layer to a thickness of about 0.3 m. The height h of the mesa step may be about 0.4 m or less and in some embodiments may be about 0.3 m or less. The mesa step may be positioned a distance d of about 2 m or more from a sidewall A the emitter mesa .

A heavily doped base contact region e.g. greater than about 1 10cm having the second conductivity type may be formed for example by epitaxial regrowth and a base ohmic contact may be formed thereon. The base contact region may extend through and or adjacent to the buffer layer into the base layer . A collector ohmic contact is formed on the collector . The formation of ohmic contacts to n type and p type silicon carbide is well known in the art.

The portion of the buffer layer etched to form the step may be etched to a thickness that will be fully depleted by the built in potential of the metallurgical junction J between the base layer and the buffer layer . That is the doping of the buffer layer may be chosen in conjunction with the thickness to make the etched portion of the buffer layer fully depleted by the built in potential of the junction J although in some embodiments portions of the buffer layer may be only partially depleted .

Because portions of the buffer layer are depleted by the built in potential of the junction J the buffer layer can act as an etching stopper for etching the mesa step . That is depth control of the etch may be performed by probing the etched surface and applying a voltage to the etched surface during etching. A level of current passing through the probes in response to the applied voltage changes as the carrier concentration of the layer being etched changes.

In some embodiments the thicker portion of the buffer layer may be only partially depleted by the built in potential of the base buffer junction J while still reducing current crowding at the emitter base corner.

In some embodiments an optional local emitter contact region may be formed on the emitter mesa . An emitter contact may be formed on the local emitter contact region . The local emitter contact region may have a width that is smaller than a width of the emitter mesa . Thus an edge of the local emitter contact region facing the mesa step is laterally spaced apart from the edge of the emitter mesa . In some embodiments the edge of the local emitter contact region may be located a distance d that is more than 2 m from the sidewall A of the emitter mesa to provide a current conduction path that is laterally spaced away from the sidewall A of the emitter mesa .

The local emitter contact region may be heavily doped e.g. greater than about 1 10cm for obtaining good ohmic contact thereto while the doping of the emitter mesa may be less than about 2 10cm.

Due to the lateral resistance of the emitter mesa the collector current in the on state may conduct away from the sidewall A of the emitter mesa thus potentially reducing generation of interface traps along the sidewall A of the emitter mesa .

Further embodiments of the invention are illustrated in . As shown therein an optional conduction layer of second conductivity type material may be formed on upper and side surfaces of the emitter mesa . The conduction layer may be heavily doped. At one end thereof the conduction layer forms an ohmic contact to the emitter contact . At the other end the conduction layer terminates on the buffer layer between the emitter mesa and the mesa step . The conduction layer may act as a sink to carriers injected from the base layer e.g. holes when the base is p type thus reducing the possibility of recombination of such carriers with opposite conductivity type carriers e.g. electrons provided by the emitter .

The conduction layer can be formed by epitaxial regrowth for example at same type as the base contact region is formed. The regrown epitaxial layer may be selectively etched leaving some of the regrown epitaxial material on the emitter mesa .

Referring to a mask is formed on the buffer layer and is selectively patterned to expose portions of the buffer layer . The buffer layer is then etched for example using reactive ion etching to form a mesa step that defines a first portion of the buffer layer having a first thickness and a second portion of the buffer layer having a second thickness that is less than the first thickness.

Referring to the mask is removed and an emitter mesa having the first conductivity type is formed on the first portion of the buffer layer. The emitter mesa can be formed for example by masking and epitaxial regrowth. In some embodiments the emitter mesa can be formed by masking and etching an epitaxial layer. The emitter mesa has a mesa sidewall A. The emitter mesa partially exposes the first portion of the buffer layer and is the mesa sidewall A is laterally spaced apart from the mesa step . A local emitter contact region having the first conductivity type is formed on the mesa . The local emitter contact region may be spaced apart from the mesa sidewall A.

Referring to a conduction layer may be formed on the sidewall A of the emitter mesa . The conduction layer may have the second conductivity type and may extend from the buffer layer to the local emitter contact region . A heavily doped base contact region may be provided in contact with the base layer . The conduction layer and the base contact region may be formed for example by masking and epitaxial regrowth. Ohmic contacts and may be formed on the local emitter contact region the collector layer and the base contact layer respectively.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical preferred embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

