---

title: Generation and retrieval of incident reports
abstract: Upon detection of an anomaly, a report is generated that includes a description the anomaly. A description of the anomaly contained in the report is examined to determine a proposed remedy for the anomaly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08495083&OS=08495083&RS=08495083
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08495083
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081222
---
This application is a divisional of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 039 253 filed on Jan. 19 2005 the disclosure of which is incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.

Users have access to wide variety of content over a network. For example a user may access web site over the Internet to obtain stock quotes read news articles obtain a weather forecast read email respond to instant messages and so on. Additionally the user may have a variety of different choices for accessing a particular variety of content such as a wide variety of different web sites which provide news articles.

Because of this wide variety of choices the user s ease of interaction with the differing web sites may be a determining factor of which web site the user will choose to frequent. For example during an attempt to interact with a banking web site the user may encounter an incident which affects the user s interaction with the banking web site. Therefore the user may contact a customer service representative of the web site to remedy the incident. The customer service representative however may need to rely on information provided by the user which describes how the incident occurred which requires additional time and effort by the user to provide information. Additionally the information provided is dependent on the user s ability to recall the steps which preceded and or followed the incident. Consequently the customer service representative may be unable to remedy the incident based on limitations of the information provided which may also result in additional user frustration and even a decision by the user to utilize another banking web site which results in lost revenue to a provider of the banking web site.

Therefore there is a continuing need for techniques for generation and retrieval of incident reports.

Generation and retrieval of a report which describes an incident encountered during attempted user interaction with content over a network is described. In an implementation a method includes monitoring user interaction with content over a network. When an incident is detected from the monitoring a report is generated which includes a description of the incident and a report identifier ID for communication to the user and for retrieval of the report.

In another implementation a method includes receiving a report identifier ID that is configured for communication over a network from a user. The report ID was obtained by the user in response to an incident which affected the user s interaction with content over a network. The received report ID is utilized to retrieve one or more of a plurality of reports that include a description of the user s interaction with the content that caused the incident and possible remedies.

The same reference numbers are utilized in instances in the discussion to reference like structures and components.

Generation and retrieval of reports which describe one or more incidents encountered during attempted user interaction with content are described. For example a system may be configured to monitor user interaction with a web site to detect whether an incident has occurred such as an event that is not part of the standard operation of the web site which may interfere with the user s interaction with the web site. In response to this detection a report may be automatically generated which describes the monitored interaction and includes a report identifier ID . The report ID is stored with the report and is communicated to the user. Therefore the user may contact a customer service representative and supply the report ID which may then be utilized by the customer service representative to retrieve the report. Thus in this example the customer support representative is provided with detailed information retrieved via the report ID which describes the user s attempted interaction with the web site. Further this detailed information in this example is provided without reliance on the user s ability to recollect and communicate the information and also saves the user the time and effort in providing this information.

In another example the report may be utilized to provide a proposed remedy to the incident. For instance the description of the incident contained in the report may be compared with a plurality of possible remedies that are searchable based on the description of the incident contained in the report. Therefore the description may be utilized to obtain a proposed remedy that may be communicated to the user either directly or indirectly through the customer service representative. In another instance the proposed remedy may be utilized to obtain additional information from the user. For example the proposed remedy may be a starting point for communication between the customer service representative and the user in an attempt to remedy the incident such as by leading the user and or the representative toward an eventual remedy to the incident. Further discussion of selection and communication of a proposed remedy may be found in relation to .

Although the network is illustrated as the Internet the network may assume a wide variety of configurations. For example the network may include a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network a public telephone network an intranet and so on. Further although a single network is shown the network may be configured to include multiple networks. For instance the network may be configured from a combination of a corporate intranet a public telephone network a satellite network and a wireless wide area network WAN . A wide variety of other instances are also contemplated.

The content provider is illustrated as including a database which stores a plurality of content where k can be any integer from one to K . The content may be configured in a variety of ways. For example the content may be configured as a web page an instant message an email audio content e.g. a downloadable song video content e.g. a video on demand a voice mail message a meeting request a software update a result of remote application processing and so on. To manage the provision of the content over the network the content provider may include a content module . For example the content module may be executable to provide digital rights management of the content process requests from the clients for accessing the content manage storage of the content in the database communicate e.g. stream the content over the network and so on.

The client is illustrated as including a communication module which is executable to provide access to the network . For example the communication module may be configured as a web browser to request one or more of the plurality of content configured as a web page. In response to the request the content module is executed by the content provider to provide the content e.g. the web page over the network . During this interaction between the client with the content however an incident may be encountered which affects the client s interaction with the content e.g. retrieval of the web page. For instance the incident may be caused by a hardware software and or network error which results in a reduction in or interruption of the client s ability to retrieve the web page.

Accordingly the content provider in the environment of includes a monitoring module in order to collect information which describes the incident. For example the monitoring module is executable to monitor the client s interaction with the content and store data which describes this interaction. Data monitored and stored by the monitoring module may include logging client requests a description of the content requested a result of the request e.g. successive not successful a value resulting from processing the request and so on which device or devices processed the request and so forth. Data obtained by the monitoring module may then be communicated to a report provider .

The report provider is illustrated in the environment of as communicatively coupled to the content provider over the network . The report provider includes a reporting module which is executable to generate one or more reports where j can be any integer from one to J . For example the reporting module may be executed to generate the report from data obtained from the monitoring module . The report is then stored in a database for later retrieval.

A report consumer for instance may retrieve the report via the network . The report consumer may be configured in a variety of ways. For example the report consumer may be configured as a part of a customer service system that executes an output module to retrieve the report from the report provider e.g. directly through communication with the database indirectly through communication with the reporting module and so on. Upon retrieval of the report the output module may output the report such that a consumer e.g. the client a customer service representative and so on may obtain a description of the incident which affected the client s interaction with the content . This description of the incident may be utilized in a variety of ways such as to find a remedy for the incident further discussion of which may be found in relation to .

It should be noted that although the communication module in the previous example was described as a web browser the communication module may be configured in a wide variety of ways to support communication over the network . For example the communication module may be configured to support email instant messages voice mail and so on. Additionally it should also be noted that the terms report provider and report consumer describe a relationship of the respective entities to the report which was generated by information obtained from the monitoring module . Therefore the functionality represented by the report provider and the report consumer may be configured and arranged in the environment in a variety of ways. For example in another implementation the content provider may include the functionality represented by the report provider e.g. to generate and distribute reports and the client may correspond to the report consumer e.g. the client and the report consumer are implemented by the same computing device such as to receive reports from the content provider . In another example the monitoring module and the reporting module are both executed by a stand alone system that is physically separate from the content provider but is communicatively coupled via a network. A wide variety of other examples are also contemplated.

Generally any of the functions described herein can be implemented using software firmware fixed logic circuitry manual processing or a combination of these implementations. The terms module and functionality and logic as used herein generally represent software firmware or a combination of software and firmware. In the case of a software implementation the module functionality or logic represents program code that performs specified tasks when executed on one or more processors e.g. CPU or CPUs . The program code can be stored in one or more computer readable memory devices further description of which may be found in relation to . The features of the reporting techniques described below are platform independent meaning that the techniques may be implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors.

Processors are not limited by the materials from which they are formed or the processing mechanisms employed therein. For example processors may be comprised of semiconductor s and or transistors e.g. electronic integrated circuits ICs . In such a context processor executable instructions may be electronically executable instructions. Alternatively the mechanisms of or for processors and thus of or for a computing device may include but are not limited to quantum computing optical computing mechanical computing e.g. using nanotechnology and so forth.

Additionally although a single memory is shown respectively for the web server client reporting server and customer service server a wide variety of types and combinations of memory may be employed such as random access memory RAM hard disk memory removable medium memory and so forth. For example the monitoring module and the content module may be stored in RAM and executed on the processor of the web server and the database may be implemented utilizing a hard disk drive RAID array and so on. Further it should be noted that although modules are illustrated in the system of as being executed on a respective processor the modules are also storable in a respective memory. For example the communication module is executable on the processor of the client and is storable in memory .

The system is also illustrated as including multiple networks which may be considered portions of the network of . For example the system may include an Internet which is configured to communicatively couple the content provider client report provider and the report consumer one to another. The system may also include a telephone network to communicatively couple the client with the customer service server . A wide variety of other configurations are also contemplated for the network of as previously described.

The communication module is executable on the processor to interact with the web content over the internet . For example the communication module may be configured as a web browser which is configured for navigation through the web content .

The content module is executable on the processor and is also storable in memory of the web server . The content module when executed supports interaction between the communication module and the web content such as to transmit a particular piece of web content e.g. a web page over the Internet to the client . Likewise the monitoring module is also executable on the processor and is storable in the memory of the web server . The monitoring module when executed is configured to monitor interaction by the client with the web content and store data which describes this interaction in memory .

The reporting module is executable on the processor and is storable in memory of the reporting server . The reporting module when executed collects the data from the plurality of content providers in response to an occurrence of an incident in the client s interaction with the web content . The reporting module is also executable to process the data to generate a corresponding report . The report may be generated in a variety of ways to reference the client s interaction with the web content . For example each of the plurality of reports may include a corresponding report ID . The report ID may be communicated to the client for location of the particular report which describes the client s interaction from a plurality of other reports in the database .

Each of the plurality of reports may also include an incident description taken from the data communicated from the content provider . For example the reporting module may process the data to locate which characteristics if any are described by the data . A variety of characteristics may be utilized to describe an incident such as time e.g. when the incident occurred location e.g. network address geographical location of the incident failure type e.g. whether the incident relates to a hardware software and or network error request e.g. what content was requested a corresponding result of the request e.g. what data was to be provided as a result to the request data describing content interaction performed by other clients that may have caused the incident e.g. processing performed in response to a request from another one of the plurality of clients which caused software and or hardware failure of the web server and so on.

The reporting module may also be executed to provide a reference to an incident remedy . For example the reporting server may include a plurality of remedies where x can be any integer from one to X . The reporting module may select one of remedies based on the data and or the incident description of the incident for which the report was generated. The reference to the incident remedy may include data describing the remedy itself a network address of where to find the remedy and so on.

Although the report was described as including a report ID incident description and incident remedy the report may be configured in a variety of ways. For example the report may be configured to include a report ID and incident description but not an incident remedy . In another example the report may include other data such as a location at which additional processing may be performed utilizing the incident description to arrive at another incident remedy where the report is to be communicated e.g. a network address of the report consumer for which the report was generated and so on.

The reporting module is also illustrated as including a reporting application programming interface API . The reporting API may be configured to provide a variety of functionality. For example the reporting API may be utilized to provide programmatic access to the reports and or the reporting module to other modules such that the other modules do not have to know the details of how the processing of the reporting module is performed. In another example the reporting API may be configured to provide access to computing devices which are not compatible one with another.

As previously described the report consumer in the system of is illustrated as including a customer service server . The output module is executable on the processor and is storable in memory of the customer service server . The output module when executed may obtain the report via the reporting API of the reporting module . The report may be obtained by the customer service server for a variety of purposes.

The customer service server for example may be part of a customer service system that is accessible by a customer service representative. The client may contact the customer service representative via the telephone network to find a remedy for an incident encountered by the client during interaction with the web content . The customer service representative may then enter a report ID received from the client over the telephone network into the output module via a report user interface UI . The output module may then retrieve one of the plurality of reports from the report provider via the reporting API . The retrieved report may then be output via the report UI for viewing by the customer service representative in order to aid the client in remedying the incident. In this way the customer service representative may be provided with detailed information regarding the incident from a source other than the client . Further discussion of report retrieval may be found in relation to .

The following discussion describes reporting techniques that may be implemented utilizing the previously described systems and devices as well as in other systems and devices. Aspects of each of the procedures may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or a combination thereof. The procedures are shown as a set of blocks that specify operations performed by one or more devices and are not necessarily limited to the orders shown for performing the operations by the respective blocks. In portions of the following discussion reference will be made to the environment of and the system of .

During the attempted content interaction an incident is encountered block which affects the user s interaction with the content. For instance a hardware software and or network error may occur which causes an interruption or reduction in the client s ability to interact with the content over the network. The error may be detectable through the monitoring of the attempted user interaction block .

In response to the incident a report ID is generated block . For example the monitoring module when executed by the content provider may transmit data which describes the incident e.g. by gathering information about the client an error which caused the incident surrounding circumstances which may have caused the error and so on to the report provider . The report provider may then generate and store a report having the report ID and a description of the incident block obtained at least in part from the data . The report ID is also output to the user block such as directly from the report provider and or indirectly through the content provider . Thus the report provider may then act as a ticketing system by generating a unique identifier for identification of the report i.e. the report ID from a plurality of reports which are storable by the report provider further discussion of which may be found in relation to .

The incident description and more particularly the characteristics may then be compared with a plurality of remedies block . For example the plurality of remedies may be indexed and cross referenced based on similar characteristics such as time failure type and so on. Therefore the characteristics of the incident may be compared to characteristics utilized to index the plurality of remedies. One or more remedies may then be selected based on the comparison block . For instance an incident description may describe a hardware error which occurred during interaction with a particular one of the plurality of web server of the content provider . Therefore the reporting module may be executed to find one or more of the plurality of remedies which in this instance may include a network address of another one of the plurality of web servers . A reference to the selected one or more remedies may then be added to the generated report block . For example a pointer to the remedy may be added to the report a description of the remedy itself may be added to the report and so on. Thus the report may be further configured to include not only a description of the incident but also a proposed remedy to the incident which may aid in curing the incident such as an error which caused the incident. Further discussion of use of the proposed remedy may be found in relation to the following figure.

In response to the incident the user may receive a report ID that references a report which describes the incident block . For example a provider of the web site may communicate the report ID to the user along with a message which contains instructions on how the user may communicate with a customer service representative to remedy the incident. The message for instance may include the following text 

The user may then contact Customer Service using the options provided by the message such as by calling the listed telephone and provides the report ID block . The report ID in this example is the Customer Service Code referenced in the above message i.e. WV3 4AK H2R . The customer service representative may then utilized the report ID to retrieve the corresponding one of a plurality of reports for that particular user block .

As previously described in relation to the report may reference a remedy. Accordingly the referenced remedy in the report may be communicated to the user block . This communication may be performed in a variety of ways. For example the customer service representative may read the remedy over the telephone to the user the remedy may be emailed to the user instant messaged to the user and so on.

The remedy when communicated to the user may be utilized as a starting point to arrive at a remedy which cures the incident. For example the proposed remedy may be attempted by the user while on the phone with the customer service representative. Even if the proposed remedy fails to cure the incident e.g. an underlying which caused the incident the attempt may result in additional information which may be utilized to further troubleshoot the incident. For instance another incident may be encountered during the attempt to perform the proposed remedy. In response to the other incident another report may be generated having another report ID for communication to the user. The user may then communicate this other report ID to the customer service representative to retrieve the other report which may include additional descriptive data that may shed light on an underlying cause of the incident. Therefore this additional data may be utilized either alone or in combination with the initial incident description in the initial report to arrive at another remedy to the incident block . The other remedy may then be attempted block and this process repeated until a functional remedy is found which cures the incident.

The referenced remedy block may also be utilized to gain additional information from the user. For example the referenced remedy may trigger the user s memory to cause a remembrance of additional information which may be indicative of an underlying cause of the incident such as information relating to local incidents which occurred around the user which are not included in the incident description. Thus the referenced remedy may be utilized in a variety of ways to cure the incident.

Although the invention has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claimed invention.

