---

title: Methods and apparatus for widget sharing between content aggregation points
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes receiving a request from a processing device to send a widget to a handheld mobile device. The request can be defined after at least a portion of an instance of the widget has been processed at the processing device. The request can be associated with a widget identifier. The method can also include defining a widget precursor at a widget-sharing server in response to the request from the processing device. The widget precursor can be associated with the widget identifier and a placement identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08209378&OS=08209378&RS=08209378
owner: Clearspring Technologies, Inc.
number: 08209378
owner_city: McLean
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081002
---
This application claims priority to the commonly owned U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 097 094 filed Sep. 15 2008 entitled Method and Apparatus for Management of Inter Widget Interactions and the commonly owned U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 977 544 filed Oct. 4 2007 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Widget Sharing Between Content Aggregation Points both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Embodiments described herein relate generally to control of distribution of content over a network and in particular to methods and apparatus for widget sharing between content aggregation points.

The world wide web is a platform that has been used to exchange various forms of content including videos text music etc. Often this content is distributed to users and or computers in an ad hoc fashion for example using e mail or as files embedded in a webpage. Recently primitive forms of viral distribution or replication of content have been developed that allow users to more easily spread content to other users than previously known ad hoc methods. Although these primitive methods are more convenient than distributing content in an ad hoc fashion they have many shortcomings. For example they do not provide for the ability to easily add and or invoke services related to the content and services if any exist cannot be dynamically modified and or invoked. The spreading of content using ad hoc methods and or primitive forms of viral spreading may not be tracked in a desirable way. Content also may not be readily shared with users of different platforms e.g. personal computer to mobile device . Accordingly methods and apparatus are needed to address the shortfalls of present technology and to provide other new and innovative features related to widget sharing.

In one embodiment a method includes receiving a request from a processing device to send a widget to a handheld mobile device. The request can be defined after at least a portion of an instance of the widget has been processed at the processing device. The request can be associated with a widget identifier. The method can also include defining a widget precursor at a widget sharing server in response to the request from the processing device. The widget precursor can be associated with the widget identifier and a placement identifier.

A widget sharing host can be configured to facilitate and or control sharing e.g. distribution spreading viral spreading viral sharing of a widget between one or more content aggregation points CAPs . For example placement of a widget at a destination content aggregation point can be triggered at a source content aggregation point executing for example at an entity within a network also can be referred to as a network entity . A widget is placed at content aggregation point when the widget is associated with the content aggregation point such that the widget can be executed at the content aggregation point. For example a widget is placed when a link to the widget is included in the content aggregation point. In some embodiments this type of sharing can be referred to as viral sharing and the widget can be referred to as a virally spread widget.

A content aggregation point can be for example managed by e.g. hosted at served from and or executed at the network entity and can be for example a desktop a start page a wireless application protocol WAP gallery a gallery a webpage a processor readable vehicle a portal and or a directory. A network entity configured to manage a content aggregation point can be referred to as a content aggregation point server. For example WAP galleries web galleries and so forth are types of content aggregation points that can be referred to as content distribution points. In some embodiments a content aggregation point can be referred to as a content aggregation location or as a content aggregation site.

The widget can be any type of object such as a static data object e.g. a text based object a media object e.g. a video an mp3 or an image and or a software object e.g. a javascript applet a rich media object that can be executed e.g. displayed manipulated at a content aggregation point associated with for example a network entity. The network entity can be a wired device and or a wireless device such as for example a computer e.g. a computing device a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA and or a server. The network entity can be configured with one or more platforms that can include on one or more types of hardware modules architecture software modules operating systems runtime libraries and so forth.

A widget sharing host can be configured to facilitate sharing of a widget that is received at a source content aggregation point with a destination content aggregation point by sending and or receiving various signals e.g. instructions data information . In some embodiments the destination content aggregation point can be referred to as a target content aggregation point. Specifically the widget sharing host can be configured to receive one or more sharing signal s e.g. sharing request request configured to trigger sharing e.g. placement of the widget with the destination content aggregation point. In some embodiments the destination content aggregation point or a destination network entity associated with the destination content aggregation point can be referred to as a target of the sharing signal. In response to the sharing signal s the widget sharing host can send one or more widget precursors WPs that can be used to trigger sending of an instance of the widget to a destination network entity associated with the destination content aggregation point. The sharing signal s can be defined at a sharing service module associated with a source network entity.

In some embodiments the destination network entity e.g. a mobile phone can be configured to request an instance of the widget for execution within the destination content aggregation point based on the widget precursor s . In some embodiments the destination network entity can place the widget and or a widget container associated with the widget at the destination content aggregation point in response to the widget precursor s so that the widget can later be executed at the destination content aggregation point. In some embodiments an instance of a widget can be referred to as a widget instance.

A sharing signal and or a widget precursor s can include instructions and or information such as a widget identifier WID a placement identifier PID and or a reference e.g. a pointer . The placement identifier can be for example a uniquely unique within a specified space defined identifier used to track placement of the widget. The widget identifier can be used for example to select a configuration of the widget that is compatible with a particular destination network entity and or a particular destination content aggregation point.

In some embodiments a widget can be associated with one or more services and or can be dynamically selected when shared with e.g. placed at a destination content aggregation point. The widget can be dynamically selected based on a widget identifier a capability indicator and or a user preference e.g. user preference defined at a source entity . The capability indicator and or user preference can be associated with a destination network entity and or destination content aggregation point. In some embodiments a widget can be associated with e.g. contained in integrated in referenced within a widget container also can be referred to as a container when for example shared with e.g. placed at a destination content aggregation point. The widget container can be framework that can include a reference to the widget and can include a service module e.g. tracking service module advertisement service module a service module served from a third party etc. . More details related to placement of a widget container and or a widget at a content aggregation point are set forth in co pending application Ser. No. 11 682 626 filed Mar. 6 2007 entitled Method and Apparatus for Widget and Widget Container Platform Adaptation and Distribution which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In some embodiments a widget can be configured to invoke various functions e.g. service module functions via an application programming interface API associated with for example a widget sharing host.

In some embodiments two or more widgets e.g. a set of widgets executing within one or more content aggregation points at one or more network entities can be configured to interact e.g. communicate with one another via a channel e.g. a communication channel . Communication between the widgets can be referred to as inter widget communication and can be performed via one or more signals transmitted between the widgets based on one or more protocols e.g. Internet Protocol a proprietary communications protocol . The signals transmitted by widgets during inter widget communication can be referred to as inter widget signals. In some embodiments the inter widget communication can be associated with an interactive session between the widgets such as a gaming session and or a communication session e.g. a chat session . A time period of inter widget communication can be referred to as an inter widget communication session.

In some embodiments at least a portion of the communication channel can be established and or managed within a network by a channel host. In some embodiments the channel host can be a widget a network entity an application at the network entity a content aggregation point and or a remote channel host within a network. In some embodiments the communication channel can be established using a function served to one or more channel hosts e.g. a widget for example in response to a request. In some embodiments the communication channel can be referred to as a communication link. In some embodiments the communication channel can operate as a bus e.g. an ordered bus or operate substantially similar to a bus.

One or more widgets can be served from a widget server to the content aggregation point for execution in response to a reference s to the widget s being accessed at the content aggregation point. The widget s can be virally spread to and or placed at the content aggregation point s . A widget s is virally spread when the widget is associated with e.g. a reference to the widget is placed at the widget is executed at and or configured to be associated with a content aggregation point in response to a sharing request associated with an instance of the widget at a different content aggregation point. More details related to viral sharing of widgets are set forth in co pending application Ser. No. 11 537 362 filed Sep. 29 2006 entitled Method and Apparatus for Widget Container Hosting and Generation which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

At least a portion of the widgets and or at least a portion of one or more functions e.g. service modules widget container functions applications associated with the widgets can be executed within one or more content aggregation points at one or more network entities before the inter widget communication commences. In other words the widgets can communicate via inter widget signaling while executing within one or more content aggregation points at one or more network entities. In some embodiments a widget can be configured to invoke various functions e.g. service modules widget container functions after being served to the widget and or can invoke various functions which can reside at a host e.g. a widget sharing host via an API. In some embodiments one or more portions of the function s can be referred to as a kernel.

The widgets can be configured to transmit e.g. exchange via inter widget communication information that can be used for example to cause an action related to a widget e.g. modification of execution of one or more of the widgets and or one or more service modules associated with the widgets . In some embodiments one or more of the widgets can be configured to use inter widget signaling to request and or transmit e.g. send broadcast an indicator related to the availability functionality to engage in inter widget communication.

In some embodiments one or more portions of inter widget communication between widgets and or resulting behavioral changes e.g. triggered actions of the widget s can be tracked e.g. collected stored processed and or transmitted . In other words information related to one or more portions of inter widget communication between widgets can be tracked. In some embodiments a user triggered interaction with a widget e.g. an interaction of a user via a user interface with a widget can also be tracked. The tracked inter widget communication parameter values e.g. inter widget communication parameter values related to user triggered interactions can be for example processed to identify one or more trends related to the inter widget communication and or to cause an action e.g. a behavioral change related to a widget. The data that is collected stored and or processed can be referred to as tracking data or as inter widget tracking data when specifically related to an inter widget interaction .

During an inter widget communication session between widgets a single widget from the widgets can be selected to operate as e.g. function as a master while executing at a client rather than an application at for example a server operating as a master. The widget selected as the master can be referred to as a client side master widget or as a master widget. The widget can be selected as the master based on one or more conditions. The master widget can be configured to manage one or more portions e.g. application level signaling between member widgets of an inter widget communication session while a channel host can be configured to manage other portions e.g. network level signaling related to the logistics of a communication channel associated with the inter widget communication session. The master widget can be configured to for example manage a global state of the inter widget communication session and or can order the exchange of content of inter widget signals from member widgets within the inter widget communication session. In some embodiments multiple widgets can share or individually execute at least a portion of one or more functions of a master widget. More details related to client side master widgets are set forth in a co pending application No. 61 097 098 filed on Sep. 15 2008 entitled Methods and Apparatus Related to Inter Widget Communication Managed by a Client Side Master which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In this written description and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example the term an identifier is intended to mean a single identifier or a combination of identifiers. In addition the term widget which is used throughout the written description and the appended claims can also mean an instance of a widget. For example a widget that is served to a content aggregation point can be an instance of the widget served to the content aggregation point.

The widget sharing host is configured to send and or receive signals e.g. instructions data to facilitate sharing of the widget . In this embodiment the widget sharing host is configured facilitate sharing of widget e.g. instance of widget from content aggregation point of network entity to content aggregation point of network entity and from content aggregation point of network entity to content aggregation point of network entity in that order.

Instances of the widget are served to each of the content aggregation points and from a widget server separate from the widget sharing host . Because sharing of the widget is triggered through the widget sharing host the widget e.g. instances of the widget can be shared without direct communication between the network entities and or and or content aggregation points and or . Signals related to sharing of the widget from content aggregation point to content aggregation point and from content aggregation point to content aggregation point are shown in order as lines through .

As shown in at least a portion of an instance of the widget is sent from the widget server to the network entity line for execution within the content aggregation point . After at least a portion of an instance of the widget is received and or executed at the content aggregation point of network entity sharing of the widget from the content aggregation point to the content aggregation point is triggered by a sharing signal defined at and sent from network entity to the widget sharing host line . The sharing signal can be defined at a sharing service module associated with network entity and or associated with widget .

In some embodiments a portion of the widget can be executed e.g. displayed at the content aggregation point of network entity before the sharing signal line is sent from the network entity . In some embodiments a sharing signal can be sent before the widget is received e.g. after widget precursor received . In some embodiments the sharing signal can originate at the network entity e.g. at content aggregation point of network entity and or can be triggered by the network entity any time before after or during execution of widget . More details related to sharing signals are described in connection with .

In response to the sharing signal line the widget sharing host is configured to send a widget precursor line to the content aggregation point of network entity . In some embodiments the content aggregation point of the network entity can be referred to as a target of the sharing signal. The widget precursor can include one or more references that can be accessed at network entity and or used by network entity to request an instance of the widget from widget server line . An instance of the widget can be sent e.g. served to the content aggregation point of network entity from the widget server line in response to the request line .

In some embodiments the widget precursor can include an instruction and or can be a message including one or more references e.g. a widget reference a widget container reference . In some embodiments a widget precursor can include a reference to another widget precursor. In some embodiments the widget precursor can be a widget container that includes a reference to the widget or a webpage or other type of vehicle that includes a reference to the widget . The widget can be contained in a widget container when a widget and or service module is either referenced in the widget container or integrated into the procedural software framework of the widget container. When being contained in the widget container the widget can be referred to as being wrapped or containerized in the widget container. As a procedural software framework the widget container can be a series of instructions that are executable or interpretable by for example a computer processor. In some embodiments the widget can be executed within the widget container after the widget container is received at and executed within for example content aggregation point . More details related to widget container hosting and generation are set forth in co pending application Ser. No. 11 537 362 which has been incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments a widget identifier a capability indicator and or a user preference that can be used by the widget sharing host to define the widget precursor line . In other words the widget precursor can be dynamically defined based on the widget identifier the capability indicator the user preference and or information related to a geographic location e.g. a geographic position of network entity . For example a widget identifier and or user preference associated with widget and included in the sharing signal line can be used by the widget sharing host to define the widget precursor line . The widget identifier and or user preference associated with widget can be used to define a reference and or instruction in the widget precursor line sent to the network entity so that network entity can request an instance of widget having a particular configuration. In some embodiments a capability indicator and or user preference received at the widget sharing host from network entity the destination network entity can be used to define the widget precursor line . In some embodiments a capability indicator and or geographic location information received at the widget sharing host from network entity the destination network entity can be used to define the widget precursor line . More details related to selection of a widget based on a widget identifier a capability indicator a user preference and or geographic location are described in connection with and .

In some embodiments a placement identifier can be defined at the widget sharing host and associated with an instance of the widget being placed at the content aggregation point of network entity . The widget is placed at the content aggregation point when a reference to the widget or a reference to a widget container that contains the widget is for example associated with the content aggregation point . In some embodiments the placement identifier can be defined in response to the sharing signal line . In some embodiments when the instance of the widget is for example executed within the content aggregation point and or otherwise associated with the content aggregation point a placement identifier can be defined and stored at the widget container host . In some embodiments the placement identifier can be stored at the network entity .

The placement identifier included in the sharing signal can be used to create parentage associated with the widget . For example part of the parentage of widget can be defined by associating the placement identifier associated with placement of the widget at the content aggregation point of network entity with a placement identifier of a placement of the widget at the content aggregation point of network entity . In other words the placement identifier can be used to determine parentage of the widget as it is shared between the network entities. More details related to placement identifiers and widget parentage are set forth in co pending application Ser. No. 11 537 375 filed Sep. 29 2006 entitled Method and Apparatus for Widget Container Widget Tracking and Metadata Manipulation which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

After at least a portion of an instance of the widget is received at the content aggregation point of network entity line sharing of an instance of the widget with the content aggregation point of network entity can be triggered at network entity and performed using the same method described above. In other words the widget can be subsequently shared after at least a portion of the widget has been received at the network entity . A sharing signal line targeted to network entity and or the content aggregation point can be defined at network entity and sent to the widget sharing host . In response to the sharing signal line the widget sharing host can send a widget precursor line to the content aggregation point of network entity . The information and or instructions included in the widget precursor line can be used to request line an instance of widget . In response to the request widget server can send the instance of widget for execution within the content aggregation point of network entity line .

In some embodiments for example the instance of the widget can be served line with content and or a service module associated with a geographic location e.g. a geographic position of the network entity . In some embodiments for example network entity can send an indicator of a geographic location e.g. a neighborhood a city a state a global positioning coordinate of network entity to widget sharing host which can then be communicated to widget server and or to widget server . In some embodiments the indicator of the geographic location can be included in the request line for the instance of the widget . In some embodiments the indicator of the geographic location can be defined based on for example an antenna location e.g. a cell phone tower location . In response the widget server can serve an instance of the widget that has content e.g. an image an application a functionality associated with the geographic location and or a service module e.g. a service module from a third party associated with the geographic location. Accordingly the instance of the widget served to network entity can be different than the instance of the widget served to network entity when network entity and network entity are associated with e.g. disposed within different geographic locations.

In some embodiments for example content associated with a geographic location can be an advertisement a map and so forth associated with the geographic location. In some embodiments the content can be referred to as location based content. In some embodiments a service module associated with a geographic location can be referred to as a location based service LBS modules. The location based service modules can be for example a location based game modules a service modules configured to identify a location of a person or object a service modules configured to collect information about a location of a network entity a service modules configured to discover a retail outlet a bank cash machine and so forth.

In some embodiments an instance of the widget that has content associated with the geographic location can be served line based on the widget precursor line the widget precursor can be defined based on geographic location information. Specifically the widget precursor line can be defined based on the geographic location information so that the instance of the widget that is served to the network entity line in response to the widget precursor will be related to the geographic location e.g. will have a location based content and or a location based service . Although not shown in some embodiments the geographic location information can be received at the widget sharing host from the widget server after receiving the geographic location information in the request line . Although not shown in some embodiments the geographic location information can be received at the widget sharing host in response to a direct query to the network entity . The query can be triggered in response to for example the sharing signal line . In some embodiments the network entity can be configured to send before receiving the widget geographic location information to the widget sharing host and or the widget server in response to a request from the widget sharing host and or the widget server .

In some embodiments geographic location information can be received at the widget sharing host and or the widget server after the instance of the widget has been served to the network entity and or at least a portion of the widget has started executing at the network entity . In such embodiments the instance of the widget can be dynamically modified based on the geographic location. For example the executing of the instance of the widget or an associated component e.g. a service module a portion of content can be modified and or sent based on information related to the geographic location. In some embodiments the network entity can be configured to send geographic location information to the widget sharing host and or the widget server in response to receiving at least a portion of the widget in response to execution of at least a portion of the widget and or in response to a request from the widget sharing host and or the widget server .

In some embodiments a widget container that is served as a widget precursor can contain one or more service modules. For example a widget container that is served to for example network entity as a widget precursor line that includes a reference to widget can contain one or more service modules. In some embodiments the service module included in the widget container can be a pre defined function. For example the service module can be a metadata searching retrieval module a polling categorizing module a widget container deployment module e.g. using a placement service module a location based service module a transaction service module e.g. service module for facilitating a web purchase service module used for signing a user up for a web service etc. a security module e.g. security firewall module and or a widget container tracking module. The service module can also be a referral service module e.g. a service used to refer a viewer to a widget container an advertisement service module e.g. a service module that includes an advertisement or a directory service module e.g. a service module used for searching in a directory .

After the widget has been placed at e.g. linked at a content aggregation point such as content aggregation point the widget can be executed at the content aggregation point when requested. For example in response to an instruction included in a widget precursor such as the widget precursor shown at line a reference to the widget can be included in the content aggregation point and configured so that the widget is requested when the reference is accessed. In some embodiments the widget container is a portable framework that can be referenced in e.g. embedded in referenced using an embed or object tag and or accessed from using a content aggregation point e.g. web page mobile content vehicle .

In some embodiments a reference to widget can be included in a widget container that has been placed at the content aggregation point e.g. a reference to the widget container included at the content aggregation point . The widget container can include one or more service modules including for example a sharing service module that can be used to share the widget . In some embodiments the widget container and widget can be served from separate entities. For example the widget container can be served from widget sharing host when requested at for example network entity and widget can be served from the widget server after a reference to the widget has been accessed at the widget container. In some embodiments the content aggregation point such as a webpage can be served from yet a different entity. In some embodiments the widget container can be dynamically served and modified based on metadata associated with the widget and or widget container.

In some embodiments a widget that is not contained in a widget container can be configured to invoke various functions associated with service modules such as those listed above via an API. More details related to a widget invoking a function based on an API are described in connection with .

In some embodiments the widget sharing host can be configured to control the sharing e.g. distribution of widgets based on a content rules. More details related to the control of widget sharing based on content rules are set forth in co pending application Ser. No. 11 682 639 filed Mar. 6 2007 entitled Method and Apparatus for Widget and Widget Container Distribution Control Based on Content Rules which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments the widget sharing host is not in communication with for example network entity during a time period between sending of the widget precursor line and receipt of the sharing signal line . In some embodiments during this time period only tracking data associated with the widget is transmitted from the network entity . In some embodiments during this time period only data related to a service module not shown associated with the widget is transmitted from the network entity . In some embodiments the functionality of the widget sharing host can be included in e.g. distributed within a set of widget sharing host .

As shown in at least a portion of an instance of a widget is received at a source content aggregation point of a source network entity at . When the portion of the widget instance is received the portion of the widget instance can be executed at the source content aggregation point. For example in some embodiments the portion of the widget instance can be displayed.

After at least a portion of the widget instance has been received at a share module associated with the widget is executed at . The share module can be a share module included in a widget container containing the widget. In some embodiments a function associated with the share module can be invoked via an API associated with the share module. In some embodiments the share module can be included in a content aggregation point e.g. a webpage or a mobile content vehicle e.g. a WAP page . A mobile content vehicle can be defined based on any protocol and or programming language compatible with e.g. can be processed by a mobile device.

A widget identifier associated with the widget is obtained and sent to a widget sharing host in a sharing signal at . The widget identifier can be obtained using the share module and sent to the widget sharing host in a sharing signal defined using the share module. In some embodiments the widget identifier can be associated with a set of widgets that includes more than one configuration e.g. formats protocols of a single widget. One or more configurations of the single widget from the set of widgets can be associated with a platform of a network entity. For example a first widget can have a configuration that is compatible with a particular platform of a mobile phone and a second widget can have a configuration that is compatible with a different platform. The first widget and the second widget can be associated with a single widget identifier because the first widget and the second widget have substantially the same content despite having different configurations.

In some embodiments the sharing signal can be generated by a sharing module associated with the widget. In some embodiments the sharing module can be referred to as a placement module. For example the sharing module can be included in e.g. integrated within a widget container containing the widget. In some embodiments the sharing signal can be defined based on a sharing module included in the content aggregation point or trigger via a link included in a content aggregation point.

In some embodiments the sharing signal can include an indicator of a sharing target such as a particular content aggregation point or destination network entity. In some embodiments the sharing target can be an address associated with a content aggregation point or an address associated with an entity such as a destination network entity. In some embodiments the sharing target can be for example a telephone number associated with a mobile device a handle associated with a user of a service or a username. More details related to sharing mechanisms in handheld mobile devices are described in connection with and .

A placement identifier for association with a placement of the widget at a destination content aggregation point of a destination network entity is defined at . The placement identifier can be defined at the widget container host and can be for example a globally unique identifier. In some embodiments the placement identifier associated with placement of the widget at the destination content aggregation point can be associated with a placement identifier of placement of the widget at the source content aggregation point to define parentage of the widget. In some embodiments the placement identifier can be defined at for example a share module rather than at the widget sharing host.

In some embodiments the sharing signal can include other information in addition to that described above. For example the sharing signal can include metadata associated with a widget e.g. user preferences . The metadata can be defined at a source network entity.

A first widget precursor can be defined and sent to the destination network entity at . In some embodiments the first widget precursor can be defined at and sent from the widget sharing host. In some embodiments a link associated with the first widget precursor can be aliased at for example a domain name service DNS server. For example if the first widget precursor is an SMS message a link associated with the SMS message can be aliased at for example a domain name service DNS server. In some embodiments the widget sharing host can be configured to trigger a separate network entity to define and send the first widget precursor to the destination network entity. In some embodiments the proxy device can be configured to modify any portion of the SMS message e.g. text portion link within the SMS message .

In some embodiments the first widget precursor can include the placement identifier and the widget identifier. If the destination network entity is a handheld mobile device the first widget precursor can be defined based on any protocol e.g. a protocol that has a specified format compatible with the handheld mobile device such as a text based message e.g. a short message service SMS message . In some embodiments the first widget precursor can include the placement identifier and the widget identifier. In some embodiments the widget sharing host can trigger an SMS proxy device to define and send the SMS message to the destination network entity. In some embodiments a widget precursor sent to a handheld mobile device can be referred to as a mobile widget precursor.

A user preference and or a capability indicator is received from the destination content aggregation point in response to the first widget precursor at . The capability indicator can be an indicator of a capability associated with the destination content aggregation point and or the destination network entity. In some embodiments the capability indicator can be an indicator of the platform of and or resources available at the destination network entity. In some embodiments the capability indicator can be for example an indicator of a capability of an application configured to process a widget and or a widget container associated with the widget. The application can be for example a web browser or a mobile content processing application e.g. WAP browser . In some embodiments the response can include and or can be defined based on information related to geographic location for example of the destination network entity. In some embodiments a user preference can be received from the source network entity in for example a sharing signal.

A second widget precursor that is associated with a widget reference is determined e.g. defined and sent based on the capability indicator the user preference and or the widget identifier at . For example a widget reference to a widget that is compatible with a particular destination content aggregation point and or destination network entity can be determined based on the capability indicator user preference and or the widget identifier. In some embodiments a link associated with the second widget precursor can be aliased at for example a domain name service DNS server. In some embodiments a service module associated with the widget can be selected based on the capability indicator user preference and or the widget identifier. More details regarding selection of a widget precursor and or a widget based on a widget identifier and a capability indicator are discussed in connection with .

In some embodiments a second widget precursor can be determined and or sent based on geographic location information received from the destination network entity in for example the response to the first widget precursor. For example if an indicator e.g. a first widget precursor indicates that the destination network entity is disposed in a specified geographic location e.g. a neighborhood a city a state a global positioning coordinate the second widget precursor can be defined to trigger serving of content e.g. content integrated within a widget content associated with a widget container content associated with a service module and or a service module e.g. a location based service related to the geographic location.

In some embodiments the second widget precursor can be for example a widget container a webpage and or a WAP page that includes the widget reference. In some embodiments the second widget precursor can be a reference to a different widget precursor e.g. a reference to a widget container that includes a link to the widget .

If the second widget precursor is for example a WAP page or a webpage the widget reference can be included in the WAP page or the webpage as a link. In some embodiments the widget reference can be configured such that the widget reference e.g. link can be accessed in response to a user triggered interaction with the widget reference at the destination network entity.

If the second widget precursor is a widget container or a reference to a widget container the widget reference can be contained e.g. integrated into in the widget container or included in the widget container as a link that can be accessed in response to a use triggered interaction at the destination network entity. In some embodiments the link can be dynamically included in the widget container when the widget container is generated in response to a reference to the widget being accessed from a content aggregation point. In some embodiments the widget sharing host can trigger a determination of and or sending of the second widget precursor. More details related to widget precursors in handheld mobile devices are described in connection with and .

In some embodiments the second widget precursor can be defined based on metadata and or an analysis of the metadata . For example the response to the first widget precursor and or the first widget precursor can include metadata and or can be used to retrieve metadata associated with the destination network entity e.g. the destination content aggregation point associated with the destination network entity . The response to the first widget precursor and or the first widget precursor can include metadata in addition to or in lieu of the user preference and or the capability indicator. The metadata can be historical usage behavioral data past performance data and so forth that can be used to define a second widget precursor. Specifically for example the metadata can be used to define the second widget precursor so that content e.g. content associated with a widget consistent with prior usage behavior or predicted future usage behavior defined based on a predictive analysis e.g. an extrapolation of the metadata can be retrieved based on the second widget precursor. The metadata can be retrieved from for example a metadata database based on an identifier associated with the destination network entity.

The widget reference associated with the second widget precursor is accessed at the destination content aggregation point at . When the widget reference is accessed a request for an instance of the widget can be sent to a widget server. In some embodiments the widget reference can be configured so that the widget reference is automatically accessed at the destination content aggregation point. For example the widget reference can be included within a portion of software associated with the second widget precursor. When the software of the second widget precursor is executed the widget reference can be accessed. In some embodiments if the second widget precursor is a reference to for example a widget container that includes the widget reference the widget container can be requested received first and the widget reference can subsequently be accessed from the widget container.

An instance of the widget is received at the destination network entity at in response to the widget reference being accessed at . The instance of the widget can be sent from a widget server in response to a request received from the destination network entity. The instance of the widget can be receive at the destination content aggregation point.

At least a portion of the widget is executed at the destination content aggregation point of the destination network entity at . For example in some embodiments the widget e.g. widget instance can be displayed at the destination content aggregation point. The portion of the widget can be executed in response to a user triggered interaction. In some embodiments the widget can have content e.g. a map an advertisement and or a service module e.g. a language preference service a service configured to produce a current time of day based on location related to a particular geographic location e.g. a proximity to a landmark associated with the destination network entity.

In some embodiments an instance of the widget can be shared with a different content aggregation point. For example as shown in the destination content aggregation point can function as a source content aggregation point at and can share the widget with another content aggregation point.

In some embodiments only one widget precursor can be sent rather than two widget precursors for example if it is determined based on a sharing signal that the destination network entity is a particular type of device e.g. determine that destination network entity is a mobile phone because sharing signal indicates destination based on a phone number is at a particular geographic location has a particular usage history and so forth. In this scenario a single widget precursor that is a mobile content vehicle that includes a reference to a widget can be sent to the destination network entity. In some embodiments if the widget precursor is a widget e.g. WAP page the widget precursor can be sent without additional linking to a second widget precursor or an additional widget.

In some embodiments the steps described in can be performed in a different order and or at different locations than specified in the figure. For example the user preference can be received before a placement identifier is defined. For example the widget sharing host can trigger a separate entity to perform functions associated with the widget sharing host.

The user preferences can be for example a preference related to an attribute of a widget and or widget precursor e.g. x y location of the widget size of the widget color themes styles etc. The user preferences can be received at substantially the same time as a capability indicator is received. For example in some embodiments a user preference and a capability indicator can be received from a destination network entity in response to a widget precursor. In some embodiments the user preference can be from a source network entity. For example the user preference can be communicated from a source network entity to a widget sharing host in a sharing signal.

As shown in table each of the widget identifiers is associated with a set of widgets . For example widget identifier P column is associated with widgets X Y and Z column . Each of the widgets can have a specified format e.g. a specified protocol a specified dimension a specified set of components a specified functionality that is defined based on each of the capability indicators . In other words the widgets represented in column can be configured for example to operate in a particular fashion on and or can be configured to be compatible with a particular mobile device. Said differently the widgets X Y and Z can be transformations of e.g. configurations of the same widget that are configured for operation based on specified criteria e.g. processing capabilities .

In some embodiments the selection of a combination of a widget widget precursor and or service module can be performed at a widget sharing host in response to a sharing signal from a source network entity. For example if capability indicator Q column and widget identifier P column are received at a widget sharing host the widget sharing host can use table to determine that widget L column widget container F column and service module A column should be sent for execution and or placement at a destination content aggregation point this set was selected by default because a user preference value was not received at the widget sharing host . The widget identifier P column can be received at the widget sharing host from a source network entity in for example a sharing signal. The capability indicator Q column can be associated with the content aggregation point and can be received from an entity such as a destination network entity where the content aggregation point is being executed or a content aggregation point server e.g. web server hosting the content aggregation point.

In some embodiments a default widget can be sent to a device based on capability indicator. In some embodiments a default widget can be sent to a device based on capability indicator representing that a network entity is a particular type of device or based on geographic indicator representing that a network entity is at a particular location. For example if a capability indicator S shown in column represents that a particular network entity requesting widget P shown in column is a mobile device e.g. a PDA widget Y can by default be sent to the network entity for execution. In some embodiments widget Y can be sent to the network entity even if the particular network entity has greater capability to process for example a more complex widget than widget Y.

In some embodiments a specified widget can be sent to a network entity based on processing of multiple capability indicators. For example a network entity such as a mobile device can send a request for widget P shown in column P . Capability indicators S and T shown in column can both be associated with the request or sent at a different time in response to for example a request from a widget server or widget host . As shown in table because both widget Y and widget Z shown in column can be served for execution at the network entity a condition and or an algorithm can be used to determine which of widget Y and widget Z should be served to the network entity. In some embodiments for example if widget Y is a higher quality widget based on specified criteria than widget Z widget Y can be served for execution. In some embodiments by default the lower quality widget can be served for execution.

In the example above widget L widget container F and service module A were selected by default because a user preference was not received at the widget sharing host. If a user preference U column had been received at the widget sharing host the widget sharing host could have used the additional parameter value to determine that widget L column widget container G column and service module B column should be sent for execution and or placement at a destination content aggregation point.

In some embodiments a widget precursor can be configured with a certain type of service module . For example a particular widget precursor may be configured to handle only a specified set of service modules .

In some embodiments after a widget a widget precursor and or a service module have been selected based on a capability indicator a widget identifier a user preference and or a geographic location a reference to the widget the widget precursor and or the service module can be determined. In some embodiments table or a variation thereof can include references to the widgets references to the widget precursor and or references to the service modules . For example the table can include a widget reference column instead of the widget column. In some embodiments the reference s to the widget the widget precursor and or the service module can be sent to a destination network entity for placement at a content aggregation point.

An instance of widget is configured to be served for execution within the widget container from widget server . The widget container is configured to be served from widget container server to content aggregation point in response to a reference to the widget container being accessed at the content aggregation point . In some embodiments if the content aggregate point is for example a webpage the content aggregation point can be served from a content aggregation point server not shown .

The widget parcel can in some embodiments include information related to the widget container and or widget such that the widget container and or widget can be executed at the content aggregation point if the network entity is not in communication with the widget container server and or widget server . For example the widget parcel can include instructions that can be used to generate at least a portion of the widget container the widget container server is unavailable.

In some embodiments the widget parcel can include or can be information related to preferences of a user so that the widget container can be executed based on the preferences if the preferences cannot be retrieved from for example the widget sharing host where the user preferences are typically stored. For example preferences related to the widget can be stored at memory as widget parcel and accessed such that the widget can be executed based on those preferences. In some embodiments the widget parcel can be accessed when a cached version of the widget container and or a cached version of the widget is executed at the network entity .

In some embodiments the widget parcel can be configured to collect data related to a service module not shown e.g. a tracking service module an LBS service module . For example if a widget sharing host that is configured to receive tracking data from a tracking service module not shown associated with the widget container is unavailable the tracking data can be stored as a widget parcel and sent to the widget sharing host when the widget sharing host is available. In some embodiments the widget parcel can function as an agent that collects data from a service module when for example the widget sharing host is unavailable such that the functionality of the widget container and or widget is substantially uninterrupted.

In some embodiments the widget parcel can be a remote agent that is configured to communicate with several widgets and or widget containers that have been placed at the network entity . In some embodiments the widget parcel can be a module that is sent to the network entity from the widget sharing host . In some embodiments the widget parcel can be a module that is associated with the widget container and or widget and can be installed at the network entity when the widget container and or widget are placed at the network entity . In other words in some embodiments the widget parcel can be served to the network entity in response to the widget being requested. In some embodiments the widget parcel can be a widget precursor send to the network entity in response to a sharing signal.

In some embodiments the widget parcel can be configured to communicate information related to for example a geographic location of the network entity . In such embodiments the location information can be used to determine a particular type of e.g. a particular configuration of widget service module not shown widget container and so forth to serve to the network entity . For example if the widget parcel indicates that the network entity is disposed in a specified geographic location e.g. a neighborhood a city a state a global positioning coordinate the widget server can be configured to dynamically serve an instance of the widget that has a particular type of content and or service module related to the geographic location. In some embodiments the geographic location can be communicated to for example the widget server and or the widget container server so that the widget server and or the widget container server can use that information to serve content based on the geographic location.

The application and or widget can be configured to trigger execution e.g. display of a sharing web page that can be used to produce a sharing signal. In some embodiments the sharing web page can be automatically loaded at the handheld mobile device after the widget has completed execution. In some embodiments the sharing web page can be displayed in a foreground of a display not shown of the handheld mobile device while the application and or widget can be in a background of the display. In some embodiments the application and or widget can be closed when the sharing web page is launched and or received at the handheld mobile device . In some embodiments the sharing web page can be a type of mobile content vehicle that can be referred to as a sharing mobile content vehicle. In some embodiments the sharing web page can be customized. In some embodiments a link within the widget to the sharing web page can be aliased at a DNS server.

The sharing module can be used to produce or trigger another entity separate from and in communication with the handheld mobile device to produce a sharing signal. In some embodiments the sharing module can be automatically loaded at the handheld mobile device when the mobile content vehicle is executed. In some embodiments the sharing module can be activated in response to a link being accessed at the mobile content vehicle .

The sharing mobile content vehicle can be used to produce a sharing signal associated with the widget . In some embodiments the sharing mobile content vehicle can be automatically loaded at the handheld mobile device after the widget has completed execution. In some embodiments the sharing mobile content vehicle can be displayed in a foreground of a display not shown of the handheld mobile device while the mobile content vehicle and or widget can be in a background of the display. In some embodiments mobile content vehicle and or widget can be closed when the sharing mobile content vehicle is launched and or received at the handheld mobile device .

Widget A and widget B are different configurations of widget and thus have substantially the same content. Widgets A and B are served from widget server to the network entities and respectively as the widget is shared. In some embodiments widget can be referred to as a master widget. Although widget A and B have different configurations widgets A and B are from a set of widgets that is associated with a single widget identifier associated with e.g. assigned to widget .

As shown in widget A is served to network entity for execution within content aggregation point from widget container server for example in response to a reference to widget A being accessed from content aggregation point . Widget B which is shared with network entity from network entity is served to network entity for execution within WAP page B. WAP page B is served for execution within WAP browser from WAP server . In some embodiments the widget A can be served for execution within a widget container not shown from for example a widget container server not shown .

In this embodiment sharing of the widget is triggered by an API call from widget A to the widget sharing host based on the API . The API call can be defined at widget A and can be a type of sharing signal. In some embodiments the API call can be triggered in response to an interaction of the user with widget A. Because the widget A can directly trigger sharing using an API call the widget A does not need to be associated with a widget container that has for example a sharing module configured to trigger sharing of the widget . In response to the API call the widget sharing host can facilitate sharing of widget by for example sending a widget precursor to network entity to trigger loading of WAP page at network entity .

Widget A and or widget B can be configured to invoke directly a function that can be included in a service module based on API so long as widget sharing host is configured to perform that function and is an implementation of API . For example widget A and or widget B can be configured to invoke a deployment function and or a transaction service function functions that can be performed by a service module through an API call e.g. API request to the widget sharing host based on API associated with the widget sharing host . Widget A and or widget B can also be configured for example to invoke a tracking kernel function through an API call to the widget sharing host based on API . In other words widget A can be configured to directly invoke a function that can be associated with a widget container. More details related to inter widget communication are described below in connection with .

In some embodiments widget C can be configured to access information e.g. data metadata tracking data associated with the widget D based on the API and vice versa. The information can be generated at widget D e.g. polling data a game score . In some embodiments widget C can be configured to share information e.g. data metadata tracking data data generated at the widget with widget D based on the API and vice versa. In some embodiments widget C can be configured to trigger widget D to perform a function based on API and vice versa. For example the widget C can be configured to trigger widget D to collect and or send information.

As shown in widget D can be configured to invoke a function associated with a widget container A based on an API . In some embodiments widget C and widget D can be implementations of different APIs. Although API is represented in as a single API API can be a combination of multiple APIs not shown or a portion of a different API not shown . In some embodiments widget C and widget D can be in separate content aggregation points not shown . Although not shown in some embodiments a widget container A can be configured to communicate with and or invoke a function associated with a separate widget container based on for example API or a different API. The widget container A and the separate widget container can be included in e.g. executing within content aggregation point or different content aggregation points not shown . More details related to inter widget communication are described below in connection with .

A request for a placement of a widget at a content aggregation point is sent from the handheld mobile device to a widget sharing host . The placement request can be for example a sharing signal defined at a sharing module. The sharing module can be associated with a mobile content vehicle executed at the handheld mobile device for example after the widget has executed at the handheld mobile device .

A request to associated an instance of a widget container that includes a reference to the widget is sent to a content aggregation point server from the widget sharing host . The request can be based on a table stored in a memory at the widget sharing host . The request can be based on one or more parameter values associated with the content aggregation point such as rules associated with the content aggregation point. When the request is granted a response to the request can be sent from the content aggregation point server to the widget sharing host . In some embodiments the request can be denied. A placement identifier is defined at the widget sharing server when the request is granted.

A request for the content aggregation point can be defined at a network entity and sent to the content aggregation point server . In response the content aggregation point server can send the content aggregation point for execution at the network entity . If the widget container reference is accessed at the content aggregation point a request for the widget container reference can be sent to the widget sharing host or a separate widget container server not shown .

An instance of the widget container with a widget reference is from the widget sharing host to the network entity . When the widget reference is accessed the widget can be requested from the widget server and an instance of the widget can be sent to the network entity .

In some embodiments a widget without a widget container can be placed at the content aggregation point and the widget without the widget container can be requested from the widget server . In such an instance the widget can be configured to directly invoke services e.g. sharing server based on an API.

Widget and widget are served to content aggregation point and content aggregation point respectively from widget server . Widget is served to content aggregation point from widget server . Each widget from the widgets can be served in response to a request defined in response to a reference not shown to for example the widget being accessed at the content aggregation point. In some embodiments the reference can also be referred to as a link. For example widget can be served to network entity for execution within content aggregation point in response to a reference to widget being accessed at content aggregation point . In some embodiments reference can be automatically accessed when a portion of content aggregation point is accessed. In some embodiments the reference can be accessed in response to for example a user triggered interaction via a user interface not shown associated with the network entity .

The communication channel can be established within network which can include one or more wired and or wireless segments using channel host . After the communication channel has been established one or more of the widgets can be configured to transmit one or more signals related to inter widget communication to another of the widgets via the communication channel . In some embodiments the communication channel can be established based on an available channel and or a channel that has been reserved e.g. a pre determined channel for use by each widget from the widgets . Although not shown in some embodiments the channel host can be one of the widget one of the network entities one of the content aggregation points and or a different remote channel host within the network .

In some embodiments the communication channel can be established using a channel selected by the channel host . The channel host can communicate the selected channel to one or more of the widgets using for example a notification message. In some embodiments the communication channel can be established in an ad hoc fashion. For example in response to a query e.g. a channel request for an available channel the channel host can send an identifier for an available channel for communication to one or more of the widgets . The query can be initiated by any of the widgets e.g. a widget .

In some embodiments one or more users associated with a network entity e.g. network entity can select a channel that can be used for inter widget communication and can communicate the selection via for example an out of band communication message e.g. an e mail message a message sent via a different communication channel . The user can define one or more parameter values e.g. a port value a time value for establishing the communication channel .

In some embodiments once the communication channel has been established established in response to a request from any widget from the widgets one or more of the widgets can be invited to join the communication channel . In other words the widget s from the widgets can be configured to receive a request to join the communication channel . In response to the invitation one or more of the widgets can be configured to join the communication channel . In some embodiments widgets can receive and respond to invitations to join the communication channel using an out of band messaging mechanism e.g. a different communication channel and or via the messages exchanged with the channel host .

In some embodiments the communication channel can be left open or terminated e.g. immediately terminated terminated after a specified period of time after an inter widget communication session is over. In some embodiments an inter widget communication session can commence when the communication channel is established and can end when the communication channel is terminated. In some embodiments an inter widget communication session can include a period of time when one or more of the widgets are exchanging information via the communication channel .

One or more inter widget signals can be transmitted between one or more of the widgets to communicate e.g. send declare request acknowledge information related to the presence of and or related to a function e.g. a capability associated with a function a set of parameters that can be handled by a portion of a function associated at least one of the widgets . In some embodiments inter widget signals can be referred to as inter widget messages. Information related to presence can include for example existence of a widget a status and or a state of a widget and so forth. In some embodiments the status can be a status with respect to inter widget communication and can be for example an available status a suspended status e.g. a paused status a predicted available status and or an unavailable status. The functionality can be related to for example input parameter values that can be handled by e.g. processed by a function associated with the widget output parameter values that can be handled by e.g. produced by a function associated with the widget a specified behavior of the widget e.g. an execution of the widget a sequence of actions performed by the widget and so forth. In some embodiments one or more of the widgets can be configured to transmit e.g. automatically transmit and or respond e.g. automatically respond to inter widget signals related to presence and or functionality in a widget auto discovery process.

For example an inter widget signal can be sent e.g. transmitted broadcast from widget to widget and or to widget to make widget and or widget aware of the presence of widget and or a functionality associated with widget . In other words the widget can be configured to declare e.g. send information related to functionality and or presence. In some embodiments an inter widget signal can be sent from widget to widget to request information related to the presence e.g. status of widget and or a functionality associated with widget . Inter widget signals related to declaration of and or request for information about presence and or functionality can be referred to as discovery signals.

In response to a discovery signal from widget for example widget and or widget can send an inter widget signal to acknowledge the information transmitted from widget . In some embodiments an inter widget signal can be sent from one or more of the widgets for example to acknowledge e.g. confirm a particular status or to block prevent inter widget communication. Responses to discovery signals can be referred to as a response signals. More details related to discovery of functionality related to widgets are discussed in connection with .

In some embodiments an inter widget signal can be used to for example communicate data such as user triggered parameter values input parameter values and or an output parameter values between the widgets . These types of inter widget signals can be referred to as data signals. In some embodiments one or more of the widgets can be configured to send an inter widget signal to for example trigger an action by another of the widgets . These types of inter widget signals can be referred to as command signals. The inter widget signaling can be defined based on for example a known protocol such as Internet Protocol IP and or a proprietary signaling protocol. Inter widget signal types in addition to those described herein can be exchanged between the widgets .

In some embodiments at least a portion of an inter widget communication session e.g. inter widget signaling application level signaling via the communication channel can be managed by a client side master widget. Details related to inter widget communication related to client side master widgets are set forth in co pending application Ser. No. 61 097 098 which has been incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments the widgets can be configured to exchange inter widget signals despite being configured to operate e.g. execute communicate based on different protocols platforms and so forth. For example the widgets can be programmed based on different platforms that are not compatible with one another. However the widgets can be configured to define and exchange at least inter widget signals based on a common inter widget signaling protocol.

In some embodiments one of the widgets operating based on a platform can be configured to access e.g. invoke via an API request and receive a translation function not shown that the can be used by the widget when engaging in an inter widget communication session with another widget that is configured to operate based on a different platform. For example widget can be configured to process e.g. produce inter widget signals based on a first protocol that is incompatible with a second protocol used by widget . Widget can be configured to access a translation function to translate inter widget signals produced by widget based on the first protocol into inter widget signals based on the second protocol so that the inter widget signals will be compatible with widget . Widget can also be configured to invoke the translation function to translate inter widget signals produced by widget and based on the second protocol into inter widget signals that can be compatibly processed by widget .

In some embodiments one or more widgets operating based on different platforms can be configured to negotiate a particular platform that can be used for an inter widget interaction e.g. during an inter widget communication session . In some embodiments the platform e.g. communication protocol can be selected by the channel host . Although not shown in some embodiments the translation function can be configured to access for example a database e.g. a local database a remote database with information e.g. algorithms look up tables that can be used to translate inter widget interactions between various widget platforms.

Inter widget signals can be transmitted before and or after the communication channel has been established. In some embodiments for example after widgets have already engaged in inter widget communication via communication channel inter widget signals can be transmitted between the widgets so that one or more widgets from the widgets can discover and or declare a function or a portion of a function associated with one or more different widgets from the widgets . In some embodiments an inter widget signal can be sent to a specific widget or subset of widgets and or can be broadcast within network . Inter widget signaling after the communication channel has been established can be transmitted using the communication channel and or can be transmitted via an out of band communication link.

In some embodiments one or more portions of an inter widget signal can be queued for a period of time. For example if widget is unable to respond to an inter widget signal e.g. an inter widget signal defining a request related to the availability functionality of widget to engage in inter widget communication the inter widget signal can be queued and transmitted to widget when widget becomes available to respond in response to an indicator . In some embodiments if widget had sent the inter widget signal to widget widget can be triggered to resend the inter widget signal when widget is available to respond e.g. triggered by a master of the inter widget communication session such as a client side master widget or the channel host . In some embodiments the inter widget signal can be queued for a specified period of time. The inter widget signal can be purged if widget does not become available before a specified period of time has expired. In some embodiments the queuing of the inter widget signal can be handled by a queuing entity. The queuing entity can be for example any widget e.g. widget the channel host and or a master of an inter widget communication session associated with the communication channel e.g. a master widget the channel host .

In some embodiments one or more of the widgets can subscribe to receive information e.g. a notification data related to an event related to another widget . In some embodiments the event can be an action an update a current event a future event a subset of events. In some embodiments for example widget can request that widget be notified when widget has acquired a particular or type of functionality has calculated a particular or type of output parameter value is ready to receive a particular or type of input parameter value and or is available to engage in inter widget communication. In some embodiments the subscription can be managed by a subscription function associated with an entity e.g. widget widget a different widget e.g. widget the channel host and or a master of an inter widget communication session associated with the communication channel e.g. a master widget the channel host .

One or more of the widgets can be configured to discover via inter widget signaling another of the widgets or a function associated with a widget even though one or more of the widgets may be executing independent of one another. One or more of the widgets may operate independently when for example they are served to one or more content aggregation points at different times are controlled by different entities operate based on different platforms are not aware of one another before being served and or are not specifically configured to operate together e.g. operate in concert as applications that are dependent on one another except for via inter widget communication and or an API related to inter widget communication . For example even though widget and widget are both configured to execute within content aggregation point widget and widget can be independently functioning widgets that are served from different widget servers widget server and widget server respectively.

In some embodiments the channel host can be configured to process e.g. store use information related to inter widget communication. For example the channel host can store a status of and or information related to one or more functions associated with one or more widgets within network . In other words the channel host can track e.g. actively passively collect and store which of the widgets have been served to the content aggregation points and can store status and or functionality information related to the widgets for inter widget communication. In other words the channel host can be configured to register presence and or functionality information related to the widgets to facilitate inter widget communication. In some embodiments the registered information can be made available through access controls to one or more of the widgets . The channel host can be configured to use that information to initiate receive and or respond to one or more inter widget signals.

For example an inter widget signal that includes a query related to the presence of another widget can be broadcast from widget over network . An individual widget such as widget can respond to the query with an indicator that widget is available for inter widget communication or channel host which can be aware of the status of one or more widgets within network can respond to the inter widget signal with an indicator that widget is available for inter widget communication. In some embodiments the inter widget signal can be sent to the channel host and or to the widgets e.g. a subset of the widgets . More details related to discovery of widgets and with respect to storage of information related to inter widget communication are discussed in connection with .

As shown in the channel host has a processor and a memory . The processor and or the memory can be used to perform functions related to the communication channel . For example the memory can be used to store information related to establishing the communication channel and or information related to inter widget signaling between the widgets .

In some embodiments one or more functions related to inter widget communication e.g. a function related to establishing terminating a communication channel a function related to inter widget signaling can be programmed into and or associated with one or more of the widgets . For example the function s can be included as part of a widget application and or included in a container and or a service module associated with the widget. In some embodiments the function s can be invoked via an API. More details related to containers service modules and APIs of widgets are described in connection with co pending patent application Ser. No. 11 537 362 and co pending application No. 60 997 544 both of which have been incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

In some embodiments one or more functions related to inter widget communication can be served to one or more widgets one or more network entities e.g. network entity and or one or more of the content aggregations points . In some embodiments the function s can be delivered to a location e.g. network entity content aggregation point and or widget where the function s can be invoked e.g. accessed for example via an API associated with the function s . In addition the function can be invoked by the one or more of the widgets one or more of the network entities and or one or more of the content aggregation points . For example content aggregation point such as a web browser can be configured to receive and execute a function e.g. a network level signaling function related to sending and or receiving messages via the communication channel . In some embodiments the function s can be served to for example content aggregation point network entity and or widget where the function can be invoked by the content aggregation point network entity and or widget .

In some embodiments the function s can be fetched e.g. requested by one or more widgets one or more content aggregation points and or one or more network entities before the function s is needed. For example a function related to communicating via communication channel can be fetched by widget substantially immediately before or a specified time period before the widget attempts to transmit at least a portion of for example an inter widget signal via the communication channel . In some embodiments a function s can be served in response to at least a portion of a widget from the widgets being executed at one or more of the content aggregation points . More details related to functions being served to widgets are described in connection with .

In some embodiments the functions related to inter widget communication can reside at e.g. be stored at programmed into one or more widgets one or more content aggregation points and or one or more network entities . For example a function associated with inter widget signaling can be included as part of an application of a widget from the widgets . In some embodiments the function can be associated with one or more of the widgets invoked via an API associated with the function.

Inter widget communication via communication channel can be used to modify the behavior of one or more of the widgets . For example information requested from widget by widget can be sent to widget and can be used by widget to change the execution of widget . The change can be determined based on one or more conditions associated with widget . Specifically widget can be configured to display a particular advertisement or execute a particular algorithm based on information related to a user triggered interaction with widget . More details related to modification of behavior of a widget based on information exchanged during an inter widget communication session are described in connection with .

In some embodiments the channel host can be configured to track one or more portions of an inter widget communication session e.g. an interactive inter widget communication session associated with the communication channel . As the host of the communication channel the channel host can be configured to manage network level signaling e.g. manage distribution logistics of signals associated with the communication channel . Accordingly the channel host can receive signals e.g. inter widget signals transmitted via the communication channel . The channel host can be configured to collect and or store specified information related to the communication channel . The information related to the communication channel can be stored as tracking data. For example the channel host can be configured to track e.g. collect and store the number content and or type of inter widget signals e.g. save signals get signals query signals command signals transmitted by one or more of the widgets user interactions with one or more of the widgets attributes e.g. type content timing and or number of actions of one of the widgets triggered e.g. caused by another of the widgets characteristics related to the communication channel e.g. a duration of the inter widget communication session a date time stamp associated with the inter widget communication channel and or the types of widgets involved in the inter widget communication session.

In some embodiments one or more of the widgets for example can be configured to trigger the channel host to collect and or store specified information related to an inter widget communication session associated with the communication channel e.g. information related to widget . For example widget can be configured to trigger channel host to track a number of inter widget signals e.g. save signals messages transmitted between widget and widget . In some embodiments the channel host can be triggered e.g. triggered by one of the widgets to collect and or store information related to behavioral changes of one or more of the widgets .

Although not shown in some embodiments a different entity such as one or more of the network entities the content aggregation points and or the widgets can be configured to collect and or store information related to an inter widget communication session associated with the communication channel . For example widget can be configured to collect and or store information related to content sent from widget and or received from widget . In some embodiments content aggregation point can be configured to collect and or store information related to execution of widget and or widget . In some embodiments network entity can be configured to collect and or store information related to inter widget signaling associated with widget .

In some embodiments information related to an inter widget communication session that is collected and or stored by the network entities the content aggregation points and or the widgets can be sent to a different entity for storage and or further processing. In some embodiments the information can be transmitted using for example one or more packets e.g. packet bursts regularly scheduled packets . The information can be sent to for example the channel host a widget server e.g. widget server and or a different computing entity not shown for storage and or further processing. In some embodiments the information can be transmitted via the communication channel . In some embodiments the information related to an inter widget communication session e.g. tracked data can be processed using the apparatus and methods set forth in co pending application Ser. No. 61 089 357 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Processing Data to Produce a Data Tree which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some embodiments information that is tracked during or after an inter widget communication session can be used to modify the behavior of one or more of the widgets . For example information related to messages transmitted between widget and widget can be used to modify the behavior of widget . For example widget can execute in a different fashion based on an inter widget signaling trend between widget and widget . Specifically widget can be configured to display a particular advertisement content or execute a particular algorithm based on the content of inter widget signals transmitted between widget and widget during a current or terminated inter widget communication session.

Although is related to inter widget communication via communication channel which is a communication channel established using channel host the embodiments described in connection with can be applied in connection with a different communication channel configuration. For example the embodiments described in connection with can be applied within a communication channel established exclusively at a network entity e.g. a communication channel established using a function associated with a content aggregation point .

In this embodiment the set of functions includes multiple functions related to inter widget communication. Specifically the set of functions includes one or more functions used by the content aggregation point as well as the widgets to establish the communication channel . These functions can be referred to as communication channel functions. The set of functions can also include one or more functions that can be used by the widgets to communicate via the communication channel . For example the set of functions can include one or more functions related to inter widget signaling. These functions can be referred to as inter widget signaling functions.

In some embodiments the set of functions can include various functions such as service module functions that can be invoked by the network entity the content aggregation point widget and or widget . For example the set of functions can include a metadata searching retrieval function a polling categorizing function a deployment function e.g. using a placement service module a transaction service function e.g. a service module for facilitating a web purchase a service module used for signing a user up for a web service etc. a security function e.g. security firewall function a tracking function a referral service function e.g. a function used to refer a viewer to a widget an advertisement function and or a directory function e.g. a function used for searching in a directory .

In this embodiment the set of functions is served to content aggregation point in response to widget and or widget being served to the content aggregation point . For example widget can be configured to trigger loading of the set of functions when execution of at least a portion of widget has commenced. In some embodiments for example one or more portions of the set of functions can be requested by the content aggregation point in response to at least a portion of widget being executed at the content aggregation point . In some embodiments a portion of the set of functions can be served to content aggregation point in response to a user triggered interaction with one of the widgets the network entity and or the content aggregation point .

In some embodiments access to one or more functions from the set of functions can be restricted. For example the set of functions can be configured so that only widget can access a portion of the set of functions and widgets can access a different portion of the set of functions . In some embodiments a different set of functions not shown can be served to the network entity for use specifically by widget and or widget . In some embodiments one or more portions of the set of functions can be invoked e.g. accessed for example via an API associated with the portion s .

As indicated in widget A has been shared e.g. virally shared from content aggregation point . Specifically a reference to widget A has been placed at content aggregation point in response to a sharing request associated with e.g. initiated at an instance of widget A executing at content aggregation point . Likewise widget B and widget C have been shared with content aggregation point from content aggregation point .

The communication channel through which the widgets engage in inter widget communication is established at content aggregation point associated with network entity . In this embodiment the content aggregation point is functioning as a host of the communication channel . The communication channel can be established in response to a request from one or more of the widgets . The communication channel can be established based on a communication channel function served to the content aggregation point and or based on a communication channel function integrated into e.g. programmed within the content aggregation point .

Each of the widgets is configured to receive and or process specified input parameters shown as IN parameters and produce e.g. define specified output parameters shown as OUT parameters based on one or more functions associated with the widgets e.g. a function programmed into the widget a function served to the widget in response to a request from the widget a function accessed by the widget via an API . In some embodiments the parameters can also be referred to as information types. In this embodiment widget A is configured to receive one or more values for input parameters R K and L and is configured to produce e.g. define one or more values for output parameters J K and N. Widget B is configured to receive one or more values for input parameter N and is configured to produce one or more values for output parameter M. Widget C is configured to receive one or more values for input parameters J K P and Q and is configured to produce one or more values for output parameters R and N. In some embodiments a value of an output parameter can be referred to as a result and a value of an input parameter can be referred to as an operand.

As shown in the widgets are each configured to produce different sets of output parameter values and are configured to receive different sets of input parameter values. In some embodiments one or more of the widgets can be configured to receive different or the same or similar input parameter values and or can be configured to produce different or the same or similar output parameter values. In some embodiments one or more input output parameter values can be translated by one or more widgets using a translation function before the input output parameters value s are communicated to another of the widgets .

Each of the widgets can be configured to produce e.g. define one or more values for the output parameters based on one or more values of the input parameters. The input parameter values and or the output parameter values can be referred to as input output parameter values can be related to any function associated with any of the widgets . The input and or output parameter values can be transmitted via the communication channel from one widget to another widget from the widgets using inter widget signals e.g. inter widget data signals . For example widget C can be configured to receive a value for input parameter J which is an output parameter for widget A from widget A using an inter widget signal over the communication channel . Specifically widget A can be configured to produce a map coordinate which can be an output parameter value based on a street address which can be received as one or more of the input parameter values . In some embodiments for example widget A can be configured to calculate a cost estimate for purchasing a product which can be output as an output parameter value .

In some embodiments an input parameter value s and or an output parameter value s can be displayed or used to produce an image on a display not shown associated with the network entity . For example map coordinates produced as an output parameter value by widget B can be used to produce an image of a map on a display associated with the network entity . In some embodiments an input parameter value s and or an output parameter value s can be stored in a memory associated with the network entity and or transmitted via a network not shown to for example a different network entity not shown .

In some embodiments the input parameter values and or the output parameter values can be produced in response to a user triggered interaction e.g. a user input . For example a user may transmit e.g. trigger transmission of values for input parameters J K and P to widget C for example via a user interface not shown . Widget C can use one or more of these input parameter values to produce a value for output parameter N based on a function e.g. a kernel programmed into or accessed by e.g. accessed via an API by widget C. Widget C can transmit via the communication channel the value for output parameter N to widget B using one or more inter widget signals. Widget B can subsequently produce a value for output parameter M based on the value for the input parameter N received from widget C.

In some embodiments one or more input parameter value s and or one or more output parameter value s or tracking data derived from the parameter value s can be used to cause an action. For example an input parameter value s and or an output parameter value s can be used to modify a behavior of a widget from the widgets . For example a value for output parameter K produced at widget A based values for input parameters R and K can be used to change an advertisement displayed at widget A or execute a particular function e.g. an algorithm at widget A. Specifically widget A can trigger display of an advertisement for a red truck of a particular brand and dealer based on an output parameter value produced by widget A. The output parameter value can be produced by widget A based on a location value received at widget A as an input parameter value. The location value received by widget A can be sent using inter widget signaling from widget C as an output parameter value. The output parameter value from widget C can be produced based on information collected from a user based on an interaction of the user with widget C.

In some embodiments an input parameter value s and or an output parameter value s can be collected and or stored as tracking data e.g. widget tracking data . The tracking data can be stored locally in the memory and or at a remote location e.g. at the channel host . The tracking data can be associated with one or more of the widgets one or more of the content aggregation points the network entity a widget server e.g. widget server the channel host and or a user profile. In some embodiments the tracking data can be further processed at the network entity and or at a remote location e.g. at the channel host .

Each of the widgets can be configured to discover a function associated with another widget using inter widget signaling. Specifically a widget from the widgets can be configured to request e.g. request using an inter widget signal information related to one or more input parameters that can be received processed by and or one or more output parameters produced by another widget from the widgets . Based on this information the widget can send an output parameter value as an input parameter value to the other widget or receive an input parameter value transmitted as an output parameter value from the other widget .

In some embodiments in response to a widget such as widget A being served to content aggregation point the widget can be configured to register information e.g. indicators related to input output parameter values that can be handled by the widget. The information can be stored in for example a portion of memory where the information can be accessed by another widget. The registered information can then be accessed and used by another widget such as widget B to determine whether or not certain input output parameter values can be exchanged with the widget. In some embodiments the registered information can be stored at a globally accessible location outside of the network entity . For example the input output parameter values that can be handled by one or more of the widgets can be stored at the channel host . In some embodiments registration by a widget can be based on functionality available to the widget via an API. For example a widget can indicate that it has the capability to receive specified input parameters and or produce specified output parameters that are associated with a function that can be invoked based on an API.

In some embodiments information related to input output parameter values can be registered by the content aggregation point and or the network entity . In some embodiments registration for one or more of the widgets can be triggered in response to at least a portion of the communication channel being established at content aggregation point . In some embodiments registration for one or more of the widgets can be triggered in response to the widget s joining the communication channel . In some embodiments registration of input output parameter values can be a prerequisite for permission to communicate via the communication channel . In some embodiments one or more portions of the registration information can be restricted from one or more of the widgets based on widget placement e.g. a widget placement identifier PID widget type widget content and or an identifier associated with the widget s e.g. a widget identifier WID .

In some embodiments one or more of the widgets can be configured to declare e.g. send via a broadcast signal input output parameter values that can be handled by the widget s . For example widget A can declare using inter widget signaling to widget B and widget C that widget A can handle values related to input parameters R K and L and or can declare to widget B and widget C that widget A can produce values related to output parameters J K and N. In some embodiments widget A can send information related to a portion of input parameters and or a portion of output parameters to less than all of the widgets e.g. only widget C .

In some embodiments after a presence of a first widget from the widgets has been determined by a second widget from the widgets based on inter widget signaling the second widget can specifically query the first widget with respect to one or more input output parameter values e.g. a specific input parameter value . For example widget A can determine that widget B exists and is available for inter widget communication via inter widget signaling. After determining the presence of widget B widget A can query whether widget B can receive one or more specified input parameter values as output parameter values from widget A and or can produce one or more specified output parameter values as input parameter values for widget A . This type of exchange can be conducted based on a inter widget signaling protocol. In other words one of the widgets can request information related to handling of input output parameter values by another widget from the widgets .

In some embodiments a widget e.g. widget B from the widgets can be configured to in response to an event request register and or transmit e.g. declare an indicator of e.g. broadcast an indicator of input output parameter value s that can be handled. For example one or more widgets can be configured to broadcast an indicator of and or re register input output values that can be handled by the widget s in response to receipt of a new function served from for example the channel host and or a widget server e.g. widget server . For example one or more functions not shown served to a widget in response to a request can trigger re registration based on new functionality acquired by the widget through the function s . In some embodiments the event can be a user triggered event such as a user request or a user input.

In some embodiments one or more of the widgets can be configured to regularly e.g. periodically and or randomly request register and or transmit e.g. declare indicators related to functionality. For example one or more widgets can be configured to broadcast whether or not they can receive one or more values related to an input parameter value and or produce one or more values related to an output parameter value according to a periodic cycle e.g. every second . In some embodiments one or more widgets can be configured to request information related to one or more values that can be received and or produced by a widget from the widgets according to a schedule.

In some embodiments the widgets can be configured to exchange input output parameter values despite being configured to operate based on different protocols platforms and so forth. For example widget A can be a java based widget and widget B can be programmed based on a proprietary platform that is not compatible with java. However widget A can be configured to compatibly exchange input output parameter values with widget B by formatting the input output parameter values based on a common protocol. The common protocol can be for example a inter widget signaling protocol. In some embodiments the widgets can be configured to access a translation function so that they can compatibly interact as described in connection with .

Although is related to inter widget communication via communication channel which is a communication channel established within content aggregation point the embodiments described in connection with can be applied within inter widget communication via a different communication channel configuration. For example the embodiments described in connection with can be applied in connection with a communication channel established between multiple content aggregation points which could be executing at one or more network entities using one or more channel hosts e.g. network entities . The network entities may be configured to operate based on different platforms e.g. a personal computer platform vs. a PDA platform . Also the concepts described in connection with the embodiments of can be applied to many different types of parameters e.g. formatting parameters parameters related to physical placement within a content aggregation point parameters related to the attributes of the communication channel etc. .

A discovery signal is transmitted from a first virally spread widget to a second virally spread widget at . The second virally spread widget can be associated with a different content aggregation point than the content aggregation point associated with the first virally spread widget. The first virally spread widget and the second virally spread widget can be executing at the same or different network entities. The discovery signal can be transmitted over a communication channel after at least a portion of the second virally spread widget has been executed. In some embodiments the discovery signal can also be sent to a third virally spread widget. In some embodiments the discovery signal can broadcast to several virally spread widgets listening to inter widget signals transmitted over a communication channel.

A response signal from the second virally spread widget is received at the first virally spread widget at . The response signal can be transmitted via a communication channel established in response to a request from the first virally spread widget and or the second virally spread widget. In some embodiments the response signal can be broadcast to several virally spread widgets listening to inter widget signals transmitted over a communication channel.

An operand is sent to the second virally spread widget based on an information type provided by the second virally spread widget at . In some embodiments the operand can also be sent from the first virally spread widget to a third virally spread widget. In some embodiments the operand can be broadcast to several virally spread widgets listening to inter widget signals transmitted over a communication channel.

A result is defined at the second virally spread widget based on the operand at . In some embodiments the result can be used to produce an image on a display associated with a network entity. In some embodiments the result can be broadcast back to and used by the first virally spread for example to produce an image or calculate another result e.g. a different result .

In one embodiment a processor readable medium storing code representing instructions to cause a processor to perform a process includes code to transmit using a communication channel a discovery signal from a first virally spread widget that has at least a portion executed at a content aggregation point to a second virally spread widget. The code also includes code to receive at the first virally spread widget a response signal sent from the second virally spread widget in response to the discovery signal.

In some embodiments at least a portion of the second virally spread widget can be executing at the content aggregation point. In some embodiments the content aggregation point can be a first content aggregation point associated with a first network entity and at least a portion of the second virally spread widget is executing at a second content aggregation point associated with second network entity. In some embodiments the response signal can include an indicator of an information type provided by the second virally spread widget.

In some embodiments the code includes code configured to transmit an operand from the first virally spread widget to the second virally spread widget. The operand can be defined based on an indicator of an information type provided by the second virally spread widget. The information type can be communicated using the response signal. The code can also include code to receive at the first virally spread widget a result from the second virally spread widget. The result can be defined at the second virally spread widget based on the operand.

In some embodiments the transmitting can be performed in response to a reference to the first virally spread widget being accessed at the content aggregation point. The reference to the first virally spread widget can be associated with the content aggregation point in response to a placement request. In some embodiments at least a portion of the code can be sent to the processor readable medium from a widget host in response to the portion of the first widget being executed at the content aggregation point.

In some embodiments the discovery signal can be a broadcast signal. In some embodiments the discovery signal and the response signal can be defined based on a protocol associated with an application programming interface. In some embodiments the transmitting can be performed after at least a portion of the second widget is executed at the content aggregation point.

In another embodiment a method can include receiving an indicator that at least a portion of a first virally spread widget has been requested by a network entity for execution within a content aggregation point at the network entity. A set of functions can be sent to the network entity in response to the indicator. The set of functions can include a function configured to facilitate an interactive session between the first virally spread widget and a second virally spread widget requested for execution.

In some embodiments the method can also include establishing a communication channel between the first virally spread widget and the second virally spread widget. At least one of the first virally spread widget or the second virally spread widget can be configured to send a discovery signal via the communication channel.

In some embodiments the second virally spread widget can be requested by the network entity for execution within the content aggregation point. In some embodiments the method can also include sending a signal to designate the first virally spread widget as a client side master widget at the content aggregation point.

In some embodiments the content aggregation point can be a first content aggregation point. The set of functions can include a sharing function configured to enable placement of the first virally spread widget at a second content aggregation point.

Some embodiments described herein relate to a computer storage product with a computer readable medium also can be referred to as a processor readable medium having instructions or computer code thereon for performing various computer implemented operations. The media and computer code also can be referred to as code may be those designed and constructed for the specific purpose or purposes. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to magnetic storage media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical storage media such as Compact Disc Digital Video Discs CD DVDs Compact Disc Read Only Memories CD ROMs and holographic devices magneto optical storage media such as optical disks carrier wave signal processing modules and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute program code such as Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Programmable Logic Devices PLDs and Read Only Memory ROM and Random Access Memory RAM devices.

Examples of computer code include but are not limited to micro code or micro instructions machine instructions such as produced by a compiler code used to produce a web service and files containing higher level instructions that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example embodiments may be implemented using Java C or other programming languages e.g. object oriented programming languages and development tools. Additional examples of computer code include but are not limited to control signals encrypted code and compressed code.

The embodiments described herein are related to an apparatus and methods for controlling processing of and or distribution of static media and or software objects. Those skilled in the art can readily recognize that numerous variations and substitutions may be made to achieve substantially the same results as achieved by the embodiments described herein. Many variations modifications and alternative constructions fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed invention as expressed in the claims. In other words while various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only not limitation and various changes in form and details may be made. Any portion of the apparatus and or methods described herein may be combined in any combination except mutually exclusive combinations. The embodiments described herein can include various combinations and or sub combinations of the functions components and or features of the different embodiments described.

