---

title: Medical procedure
abstract: The use of an intravascular cooling element to induce hypothermia in connection with a medical procedure. According to a first aspect of the present, invention, a coronary bypass procedure is conducted in which a patient's blood is oxygenated with the patient's lungs and in which blood is circulated using the patient's heart or using an intracorporeal pump. The procedure preferably comprises: (a) positioning a heat transfer element in a blood vessel of a patient; (b) cooling the body of the patient to less than 35° C., more preferably 32±2° C., using the heat transfer element; and (c) forming a fluid communicating graft between an arterial blood supply and the coronary artery. The body of the patient is preferably heated to about 37° C. using the heat transfer element subsequent to the step of forming the fluid communicating graft. According to a further aspect of the invention, a hypothermic medical procedure is provided while a patient is in a conscious or semiconscious state, comprising (a) administering a beta-blocking drug to the patient; (b) delivering a heat transfer element to a blood vessel of the patient; and (c) cooling a region of the patient or the body of the patient to less than 35° C. using the heat transfer element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07951183&OS=07951183&RS=07951183
owner: Innercool Therapies, Inc.
number: 07951183
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080513
---
This application is divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 934 096 filed Sep. 3 2004 entitled Medical Procedure now U.S. Pat. No. 7 371 254 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 714 070 filed Nov. 14 2003 now abandoned and a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 008 999 filed Dec. 7 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 786 218.

Said Ser. No. 10 714 070 is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 095 753 filed Mar. 11 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 695 873 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 757 124 filed Jan. 8 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 540 771 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 215 038 filed Dec. 16 1998 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 261 312 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 103 342 filed Jun. 23 1998 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 096 068 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 047 012 filed Mar. 24 1998 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 957 963 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 012 287 filed Jan. 23 1998 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 051 019.

Said Ser. No. 10 008 999 is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 539 932 filed Mar. 31 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 491 039 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 306 866 filed May 7 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 235 048 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 012 287 filed Jan. 23 1998 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 051 019.

Said Ser. No. 09 539 932 is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 373 112 filed Aug. 11 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 843 800 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 292 532 filed Apr. 15 1999 now abandoned which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 103 342 filed Jun. 23 1998 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 096 068 and a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 052 545 filed Mar. 31 1998 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 231 595 and a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 047 012 filed Mar. 24 1998 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 957 963 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 012 287 filed Jan. 23 1998 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 051 019.

The present invention relates to the use of an intravascular cooling element to induce hypothermia in connection with medical procedures.

A number of approaches have been developed for treating coronary artery disease. In less severe cases it is often sufficient to merely treat the symptoms with pharmaceuticals or to treat the underlying causes of the disease with lifestyle modification. In more severe cases the coronary blockage can be treated endovascularly or percutaneously using techniques such as balloon angioplasty atherectomy laser ablation stents and the like.

In cases where these approaches have failed or are likely to fail it is often necessary to perform a coronary artery bypass graft procedure coronary bypass procedure . In this procedure direct access to the heart is first achieved. This is usually done by opening the chest by median sternotomy and spreading the left and right rib cage apart. The pericardial sac is then opened to achieve direct access to the heart. Next a blood vessel or vessels for use in the graft procedure are mobilized from the patient. This usually entails mobilizing either a mammary artery or a saphenous vein although other graft vessels may also be used.

A heart lung or cardiopulmonary bypass is then performed. This procedure usually entails arterial and venous cannulation connecting the bloodstream to a cardiopulmonary bypass system cooling the body to about 32 degrees Celsius cross clamping the aorta and cardioplegic perfusion of the coronary arteries to arrest and cool the heart to about 4 degrees Celsius.

The arrest or stoppage of the heart is generally carried out because the constant pumping motion of the beating heart makes surgery upon the heart difficult. Cooling the body protects the organs from ischemia a condition in which a tissue or organ does not receive a sufficient supply of blood reduces the cardiac output requirement and increases the systemic vascular resistance which helps maintain perfusion and reduces the cardiopulmonary circuit primary volume.

Once cardiac arrest is achieved a graft or grafts is attached to the relevant portions of a coronary artery or arteries followed by weaning from the cardiopulmonary bypass restarting the heart and decannulation. Finally the chest is closed.

After arresting the heart the heart muscle or myocardium is protected and supported so that it does not suffer cellular or nerve damage that would prevent the heart from working properly when it is started again. There are two important aspects to the process of myocardial protection 1 reducing the oxygen demand of the heart muscle and 2 adequately oxygenating the heart muscle and maintaining the proper chemical balance so that cellular damage does not occur. One common technique for doing so is known as cold cardioplegia.

During this procedure the coronary arteries must be isolated to prevent reperfusion of the myocardium with warm oxygenated blood from the cardiopulmonary bypass system that would wash out the cardioplegic agent and prematurely start the heart beating again. The most common way to isolate the coronary arteries is by aortic cross clamping which is normally implemented in the following fashion. Before stopping the heart the patient is prepared by placement of an arterial cannula and a venous cannula which are connected to the cardiopulmonary bypass system. The cardiopulmonary bypass system takes over the functions of the heart and the lungs of the patient by pumping and oxygenating the blood while the heart is stopped. Once the cardiopulmonary bypass system is connected and started the ascending aorta can be cross clamped to isolate the coronary arteries from the rest of the systemic arterial circulation. Then cardioplegic arrest is induced by injecting 500 1000 cc of cardioplegic solution into the aortic root using a needle or cannula which pierces the wall of the ascending aorta upstream of the cross clamp.

Unfortunately significant complications may result from such procedures. For example application of an external cross clamp to a calcified or atheromatous aorta may cause the release of emboli into the brachiocephalic carotid or subclavian arteries with serious consequences such as strokes.

Systems have been proposed in which the aorta is occluded without cross clamping. For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 957 879 describes systems that include an aortic occlusion device having a balloon to occlude the ascending aorta and a lumen to deliver cardioplegic fluid for arresting the patient s heart. The aortic occlusion device replaces the conventional external cross clamp and is said to reduce the amount of displacement and distortion of the aorta. Nonetheless distortion is not eliminated and the risk of emboli release remains present.

Other complications can arise from the cardiopulmonary bypass system which includes mechanical blood pumps an oxygenator a heat exchanger blood reservoirs and filters and several feet of tubing to transport the blood from the patient on the operating table to the heart lung machine located nearby and back to the patient. Such systems can cause complications due to the exposure of blood to foreign surfaces which result in the activation of virtually all the humoral and cellular components of the inflammatory response as well as some of the slower reacting specific immune responses. Other complications from cardiopulmonary bypass include loss of red blood cells and platelets due to shear stress damage. In addition cardiopulmonary bypass requires the use of an anticoagulant such as heparin. This may in turn increase the risk of hemorrhage. Finally cardiopulmonary bypass sometimes necessitates giving additional blood to the patient. The additional blood if from a source other than the patient may expose the patient to blood borne diseases.

Due to the risks noted above others have attempted to perform a coronary artery bypass graft procedure without occluding the aorta and without cardiopulmonary bypass. For example attempts have been made wherein surgery is performed on a beating heart. The technique of operating on the beating heart however is difficult due to the rapid movement of the heart and can at present only be applied to single vessel bypassing procedures. Moreover partial aortic cross clamping is generally implemented which can dislodge emboli.

In other reported procedures surgeons have been experimenting with a technique that involves stopping or nearly stopping the heart and supporting circulation with a small pump positioned in the patient s vasculature i.e. an intracorporeal pump . See for example M. S. Sweeney The Hemopump in 1997 A Clinical Political and Marketing Evolution 1999 Vol. 68 pp. 761 3 in which a coronary bypass procedure is described that uses a Medtronic Hemopump for circulatory support and the patient s own lungs from oxygenation. Esmolol a short acting beta blocker was administered to make the heart more tranquil during surgery. The interior surface area of the Hemopump is greatly reduced relative to traditional cardiopulmonary bypass systems reducing the complications of such surfaces.

Unfortunately it can be difficult to provide adequate circulation with a pump of this type increasing the risk of ischemia. Moreover while many of the dangers associated with cardiopulmonary bypass systems are avoided certain benefits of such a system are also lost. For example hypothermia is no longer induced in the patient which serves to lower oxygen demand and which induces vasoconstriction supporting perfusion. Each of these effects serves to protect the organs from ischemic damage.

Still other techniques have been proposed in which the heart is stopped or nearly stopped e.g. placed in a reversible temporary heart block by locally delivering drugs such as beta blockers. At the same time the heart is continuously paced by external pacemaker stimulation. In this way alternating periods of heartbeat and heart arrest e.g. up to 15 seconds can be established providing the surgeon with short intervals in which he or she can work on a stilled heart without resorting to a pump for supporting circulation. One such system is the TRANSARREST system of Corvascular Inc. Palo Alto Calif. Still other methods are known in which surgery is facilitated by stopping or slowing the heart though electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 913 876 and 6 006 134.

Unfortunately as in the above case wherein the Hemopump supports circulation these techniques result in less than ideal circulation and do not provide a hypothermic effect increasing the risk of ischemia.

Medical procedures are also known in which hypothermia is induced in a conscious or semiconscious person for example where hypothermia is induced in a stroke victim to reduce ischemic damage. However in such patients hypothermia activates the sympathetic nervous system resulting in a significant norepinephrine response. Norepinephrine in turn binds to beta receptor sites including those in the heart causing the heart to beat harder and more rapidly frequently resulting in cardiac arrythmia and increasing the risk of myocardial ischemia. Norepinephrine also causes peripheral vasoconstriction frustrating relief of patient discomfort for example by using heating blankets.

The above and other difficulties associated with the prior art are addressed by the present invention.

According to a first aspect of the present invention a coronary bypass procedure is conducted in which the patient s blood is oxygenated with the patient s lungs and in which blood is circulated using the patient s heart or using an intracorporeal pump. The procedure preferably comprises a positioning a heat transfer element in a blood vessel of a patient b cooling the body of the patient to less than 35 C. more preferably 32 2 C. using the heat transfer element and c forming a fluid communicating graft between an arterial blood supply and the coronary artery.

The body of the patient is desirably heated to about 37 C. using the heat transfer element subsequent to the step of forming the fluid communicating graft.

Numerous variations are possible. For example the step of forming a fluid communicating graft between the arterial blood supply and the coronary artery can be performed on a beating heart during bradycardia of the heart that occurs upon cooling the patient s body.

In another embodiment the heart can be arrested or nearly arrested during at least a portion of the step of forming the fluid communicating graft. For example the heart can be chemically arrested e.g. using one or more beta blockers or the heart can be electrically arrested. While heart is arrested the patient s circulation is preferably supported with a pump positioned in the patient s vasculature. In a preferred embodiment the pump is at least partially positioned in the left ventricle and is introduced into the patient through the femoral artery.

In yet another embodiment the heartbeat is intermittently arrested and stimulated and at least a portion of the step of forming the fluid communicating graft is carried out during periods of heartbeat arrest. For example the heart can be chemically arrested e.g. with one or more beta blockers and electrically stimulated. Alternatively the heart can be both electrically arrested and electrically stimulated. In this way the use of a pump can be avoided.

The heat transfer element can be positioned for example in the venous vasculature where it is preferably introduced via the femoral vein. More preferably the heat transfer element is positioned in the inferior vena cava via the femoral vein. In this instance the heat transfer element is preferably about 4 to 5 mm in diameter.

In one preferred embodiment the heat transfer element is attached to the distal end of a flexible catheter and the catheter is used in the step of positioning the heat transfer element in the blood vessel. The catheter is also used to convey chilled or heated fluid to the interior of the heat transfer element.

The catheter is desirably configured for efficient heat transfer. As an example it is preferred that the heat transfer element absorbs at least 150 Watts of heat during cooling. To promote efficient heat transfer the heat transfer element can comprise a plurality of exterior and interior surface irregularities wherein the exterior and interior surface irregularities are preferably shaped and arranged to create mixing in the blood and in the fluid within the heat transfer element respectively. In a preferred embodiment the interior and exterior surface irregularities comprise one or more helical ridges and one or more helical grooves.

In one embodiment the heat transfer device has a high degree of lateral flexibility and is collapsible thereby affording an easy insertion procedure. The device allows high surface area to increase heat transfer.

In one aspect the invention is directed to a catheter system to change the temperature of blood by heat transfer to or from a working fluid. The system includes an inflatable inlet lumen and outlet lumen. The outlet lumen is coupled to the inlet lumen so as to transfer working fluid between the two. The outlet lumen has a structure when inflated to induce turbulence in the blood and or in the working fluid.

Variations of the system may include one or more of the following. The inlet lumen and the outlet lumen may be made of a flexible material such as latex rubber. The outlet lumen may have a structure to induce turbulence in the working fluid when inflated such as a helical shape which may be tapered in a segmented or non segmented manner. The radii of the inlet and outlet lumens may decrease in a distal direction such that the inlet and outlet lumens are tapered when inflated. A wire may be disposed in the inlet or outlet lumens to provide shape and strength when deflated.

The thickness of the outlet lumen when inflated may be less than about mil. The length of the inlet lumen may be between about 5 and 30 centimeters. If the outlet lumen has a helical shape the diameter of the helix may be less than about 8 millimeters when inflated. The outer diameter of the helix of the outlet lumen when inflated may be between about 2 millimeters and 8 millimeters and may taper to between about 1 millimeter and 2 millimeters. In segmented embodiments a length of a segment may be between about 1 centimeter and 10 centimeters. The radii of the inlet and outlet lumens when inflated may be between about 0.5 millimeters and 2 millimeters.

The outlet lumen may further include at least one surface feature and or interior feature the surface feature inducing turbulence in the fluid adjacent the outlet lumen and the interior feature inducing turbulence in the working fluid. The surface feature may include one or more helical turns or spirals formed in the outlet lumen. Adjacent turns may employ opposite helicity. Alternatively or in combination the surface feature may be a series of staggered protrusions formed in the outlet lumen.

The turbulence inducing outlet lumen may be adapted to induce turbulence when inflated within a free stream of blood when placed within an artery. The turbulence intensity may be greater than about 0.05. The turbulence inducing outlet lumen may be adapted to induce turbulence when inflated throughout the period of the cardiac cycle when placed within an artery or during at least 20 of the period.

The system may further include a coaxial supply catheter having an inner catheter lumen coupled to the inlet lumen and a working fluid supply configured to dispense the working fluid and having an output coupled to the inner catheter lumen. The working fluid supply may be configured to produce a pressurized working fluid at a temperature of between about 3 C. and 36 C. and at a pressure below about 5 atmospheres of pressure. Higher temperatures may be employed if blood heating is desired.

The turbulence inducing outlet lumen may include a surface coating or treatment such as heparin to inhibit clot formation. A stent may be coupled to the distal end of the inlet lumen. The system may be employed to cool or heat volumes of tissue rather than blood.

In embodiments employing a tapered helical outlet lumen the taper of the outlet lumen allows the outlet lumen to be placed in an artery having a radius less than the first radius. The outlet lumen may be tapered in segments. The segments may be separated by joints the joints having a radius less than that of either adjacent segment.

In another aspect the invention is directed to a method of changing the temperature of blood by heat transfer. The method includes inserting an inflatable heat transfer element into an artery or vein and inflating the same by delivering a working fluid to its interior. The temperature of the working fluid is generally different from that of the blood. The method further includes inducing turbulence in the working fluid by passing the working fluid through a turbulence inducing path such that turbulence is induced in a substantial portion of a free stream of blood. The inflatable heat transfer element may have a turbulence inducing structure when inflated.

In another aspect the invention is directed towards a method of treating the brain which includes inserting a flexible heat transfer element into an artery from a distal location and circulating a working fluid through the flexible heat transfer element to inflate the same and to selectively modify the temperature of an organ without significantly modifying the temperature of the entire body. The flexible conductive heat transfer element preferably absorbs more than about 25 50 or 75 watts of heat. The artery may be the common carotid or a combination of the common carotid and the internal carotid.

In another aspect the invention is directed towards a method for selectively cooling an organ in the body of a patient which includes introducing a catheter into a blood vessel supplying the organ the catheter having a diameter of 5 mm or less inducing free stream turbulence in blood flowing over the catheter and cooling the catheter to remove heat from the blood to cool the organ without substantially cooling the entire body. In one embodiment the cooling removes at least about 75 watts of heat from the blood. In another embodiment the cooling removes at least about 100 watts of heat from the blood. The organ being cooled may be the human brain.

The circulating may further include passing the working fluid in through an inlet lumen and out through an outlet coaxial lumen. The working fluid may be a liquid at or well below its boiling point and furthermore may be aqueous.

Advantages of the invention include one or more of the following. The design criteria described above for the heat transfer element small diameter when deflated large diameter when inflated high flexibility and enhanced heat transfer rate through increases in the surface of the heat transfer element and the creation of turbulent flow facilitate creation of a heat transfer element which successfully achieves selective organ cooling or heating. Because only a selected organ is cooled complications associated with total body hypothermia are avoided. Because the blood is cooled intravascularly or in situ problems associated with external circulation of the blood are eliminated. Also only a single puncture and arterial vessel cannulation are required which may be performed at an easily accessible artery such as the femoral subclavian or brachial arteries. By eliminating the use of a cold perfusate problems associated with excessive fluid accumulation are avoided. In addition rapid cooling to a precise temperature may be achieved. Further treatment of a patient is not cumbersome and the patient may easily receive continued care during the heat transfer process. The device and method may be easily combined with other devices and techniques to provide aggressive multiple therapies. Other advantages will become clear from the description below.

According to a second aspect of the invention a hypothermic medical procedure is provided comprising a administering a beta blocking drug to a patient b delivering a heat transfer element to a blood vessel of a patient and c cooling a region of the patient or the body of the patient to less than 35 C. using the heat transfer element while the patient is in a conscious or semiconscious state. Preferably the beta blocking drug is administered after delivering the heat transfer element to the blood vessel. Preferred beta blocking drugs for this aspect of the invention include 1 blockers 1 2 blockers and 1 2 blockers. Preferred 1 blockers include acebutolol atenolol betaxolol bisoprolol esmolol and metoprolol. Preferred 1 2 blockers include carteolol nadolol penbutolol pindolol propranolol sotalol and timolol. Preferred 1 2 blockers include carvedilol and labetalol.

Advantages of the present invention include the elimination of aortic occlusion and cardiopulmonary bypass systems during coronary bypass surgery. Where beating heart procedures are incorporated another advantage of the present invention is the promotion of a bradycardia of the heart simplifying surgery.

Another advantage of the present invention include a reduction in the risk of ischemia associated with techniques that provide circulatory flow rates that are significantly lower than ordinary cardiac output and with techniques incorporating vasodilatory substances.

Yet another advantage of the present invention is that the risk of cardiac arrythmia and myocardial ischemia is reduced in connection with medical procedures that induce hypothermia in conscious or semiconscious patents.

The above and other embodiments and advantages of the invention will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the description and claims to follow.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter. This invention may however be embodied in different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein.

According to one aspect of the present invention a procedure is provided by which a surgeon is able to perform a coronary bypass procedure with hypothermic protection while at the same time avoiding many of the disadvantages associated with the use of traditional external cardiopulmonary bypass systems and aortic clamping procedures.

In one embodiment of the present invention a heat transfer element is provided within a blood vessel of the body such that blood is cooled in vivo upon contact with the heat transfer element.

The heat transfer element can be provided in either arterial or venous blood vessels. One preferred location for the heat transfer element is the inferior vena cava which typically ranges from 15 mm to 25 mm in diameter. A preferred method by which the heat transfer element is provided at this position is via entry at the femoral vein.

In the embodiment of the narrowest blood vessel encountered by the heat transfer element as it travels to the inferior vena cava is the femoral artery which generally ranges from 5 to 8 mm in diameter. Accordingly in this embodiment of the invention the diameter of the heat transfer element is about 4 to 5 mm in diameter.

In order to obtain the benefits associated with hypothermia during a coronary bypass procedure it is desirable to reduce the temperature of the blood flowing within the body to less than 35 C. more preferably between 30 and 35 C. and most preferably 32 2 C. Given a typical blood flow rate of approximately 2.5 to 4 l min more typically about 3.5 l min in the inferior vena cava the heat transfer element preferably absorbs 200 to 300 Watts of heat when placed in this vein in order to induce the desired cooling effect. Approximate cooling time is 15 to 30 minutes.

Cooling the body to less than 35 C. provides a number of desirable effects. First cooling will induce a bradycardia of the heart. Reduced heart rates corresponding to about of the normal heart rate are common at the preferred temperature of 32 2 C. By slowing the beating of the heart the present invention facilitates surgery during beating heart procedures. Such procedures are well known in the art. For example the performance of coronary surgery on the beating heart is described by Benetti et al in Coronary Revascularization With Arterial Conduits Via a Small Thoracotomy and Assisted by Thoracoscopy Although Without Cardiopulmonary Bypass Cor. Europatum 4 1 22 24 1995 and by Westaby Coronary Surgery Without Cardiopulmonary Bypass in the March 1995 issue of the British Heart Journal. Additional discussion of this subject matter can be found in Benetti et al Direct myocardial revascularization without extracorporeal circulation. Experience in 700 patients Chest 100 2 312 16 1991 Pfister et al Coronary artery bypass without cardiopulmonary bypass Ann. Thorac. Surg. 54 1085 92 1992 and Fanning et al Reoperative coronary artery bypass grafting without cardiopulmonary bypass Ann. Thorac. Surg. 55 486 89 1993 . Each of the above articles is hereby incorporated by reference.

Moreover the general anesthesia associated with coronary bypass techniques is often accompanied by vasodilation in the patient which decreases organ perfusion and hence increases the risk of ischemia. This effect however is combated by the hypothermia induced in accordance with the present invention which promotes vasoconstriction.

Cooling the body also protects the organs from ischemic damage due to low circulatory flow rates or due to emboli formation. For example as previously noted procedures are known in the art in which 1 the heart is intermittently stopped and restarted or 2 the heart is stopped and a small intracorporeal pump is used to provide circulatory support. These techniques and others like them allow the surgeon to operate on a still or nearly still heart. However each of these techniques also places the patient at risk from ischemia. By lowering the body temperature of the patient to a preferred temperature of 32 2 C. in accordance with the present invention however the oxygen demand of the bodily tissue and hence the danger of ischemia associated with these procedures is reduced.

More specifically with some techniques in which alternating periods of heartbeat and heart arrest are provided the heart is stopped or nearly stopped using drugs such as beta blockers and a pacing device is used to cause the heart to beat on demand. An example of one such system is the TRANSARREST system Corvascular Inc. Palo Alto Calif. In other techniques the heart is momentarily stopped or slowed by electrically stimulating the vagus nerve. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 913 876 and 6 006 134 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference. As noted in U.S. Pat. No. 5 913 876 one or more heart pacing devices such as a Pace port Swann pulmonary artery catheter may be inserted in conventional fashion to the patient s heart and used to restore the beating of the heart during the surgery in the event the heart is slow to revive after a nerve stimulating signal is turned off. Each of these techniques is associated with a circulatory flow rate that can be significantly lower than normal cardiac output.

The risks of ischemia due to low circulatory flow rates however are reduced in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In particular before manipulating the heartbeat of the patient a heat transfer element is inserted into the vasculature of the patient and the body temperature of the patient is reduced preferably to 32 2 C. As noted above by lowering the body temperature the body s oxygen demand is reduced decreasing the risk of ischemia. Moreover a reduction in body temperature in accordance with the present invention is accompanied by vasoconstriction which decreases the circulatory flow rate that is required for adequate organ perfusion and consequently further decreases the risk of ischemia.

The present invention is also useful in connection with techniques in which the heart is stopped or nearly stopped and an intracorporeal pump is used to support circulation. For example techniques are known in which circulatory support is provided during coronary bypass by a pump positioned in the patient s aortic valve. See for example M. S. Sweeney The Hemopump in 1997 A Clinical Political and Marketing Evolution 1999 Vol. 68 pp. 761 3 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. In this reference a coronary bypass operation is described in which esmolol a short acting beta blocker is administered to calm the heart during surgery. A Medtronic Hemopump is used for circulatory support and the patient s own lungs are used for oxygenation. At the core of the Hemopump is a small rapidly turning Archimedes screw. The pump assembly is made of stainless steel and is attached to a silicone rubber inlet cannula. The cannula is positioned across the aortic valve and into the left ventricle. The pump assembly is catheter mounted to facilitate placement of the pump in its operating position. For example the pump assembly is ordinarily inserted into the femoral artery of the thigh whereupon it is guided to the left ventricle. Once in place the cannula acts to entrain blood and feeds it to the pump portion which then pumps the blood into circulation via the aorta. The pump is operated by the creation of pulsing electromagnetic fields which cause rotation of a permanent magnet resulting in operation of the Archimedes screw. Electrical power is provided from a console outside the patient. The pumping action is axial and continuous i.e. non pulsatile . Due to the design of the Hemopump rotational speeds on the order of 10 000 to 20 000 rpm can be used to produce blood flow of about four liters per minute or less depending on the model without significant hemolysis. Additional details are found in M. C. Sweeney and O. H. Frazier Device supported myocardial revascularization safe help for sick hearts 1992 54 1065 70 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 625 712 the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This technique and others like it however are frequently associated with circulatory flow rates i.e. about 4 l min or less that are lower than normal cardiac output i.e. about 5 l min for many people placing the patient at ischemic risk. By lowering the body temperature of the patient to a preferred range of 32 2 C. in accordance with the present invention however the blood vessels are constricted and oxygen demand of the bodily tissue is reduced increasing organ perfusion and reducing the danger of ischemia for a given circulatory output.

As noted above in a preferred embodiment of this first aspect of the invention the heat transfer element is provided in the inferior vena cava which is accessed via the femoral vein. In contrast the Hemopump is preferably provided in the left ventricle which is accessed via the femoral artery. In this way both the heating element and the Hemopump can be concurrently placed in the body in a minimally invasive fashion.

According to another aspect of the invention a hypothermic medical procedure is performed on a patient in a conscious or semiconscious state. An example of a situation where such a hypothermic medical procedure may be performed is one in which a patient has suffered a stroke and hypothermia is induced in the brain to reduce ischemic damage.

Such procedures can be performed either to cool the entire body of the patient or a region within the patient s body typically an organ.

The entire body can be cooled using the procedures discussed above. For example the heat transfer element is preferably provided in a venous blood vessel more preferably the inferior vena cava to effect cooling of the entire body.

In order to intravascularly regulate the temperature of a selected region the heat transfer element may be placed in a feeding artery of the region to absorb or deliver the heat from or to the blood flowing into the region. The heat transfer element should be small enough to fit within the feeding artery while still allowing a sufficient blood flow to reach the region in order to avoid ischemic damage. By placing the heat transfer element within the feeding artery of a region the temperature of the region can be controlled while having less effect on the remaining parts of the body. Using the brain as an example the common carotid artery supplies blood to the head and brain. The internal carotid artery branches off of the common carotid to directly supply blood to the brain. To selectively cool the brain the heat transfer element is placed into the common carotid artery or both the common carotid artery and the internal carotid artery. The internal diameter of the common carotid artery ranges from 6 to 8 mm and the length ranges from 80 to 120 mm. Thus the heat transfer element residing in one of these arteries cannot be much larger than 4 mm in diameter in order to avoid occluding the vessel which would result for example in ischemic damage.

When hypothermia is induced in a patient less than desirable side effects can occur in the patient. For example hypothermia is known to activate the sympathetic nervous system in a conscious or semiconscious patient resulting in a significant norepinephrine response. Norepinephrine in turn binds to beta sites including those in the heart causing the heart to beat harder and more rapidly frequently resulting in cardiac arrythmia and increased risk of myocardial ischemia. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention however a beta blocker is administered to the patient. Without wishing to be bound by theory it is believed that the beta blocker offsets the norepinephrine binding noted above. In general the beta blocker may be administered before the patient cooling commences and preferably immediately before patient cooling commences.

Preferred beta blockers for this aspect of the invention include 1 blockers 1 2 blockers and 1 2 blockers. Preferred 1 blockers include acebutolol atenolol betaxolol bisoprolol esmolol and metoprolol. Preferred 1 2 blockers include carteolol nadolol penbutolol pindolol propranolol sotalol and timolol. Preferred 1 2 blockers include carvedilol and labetalol.

The heightened demand that hypothermia places on the heart of conscious or semiconscious patents may also be relieved for example with heating blankets. However vasoconstriction limits the heating ability of the heating blankets. Without wishing to be bound by theory it is believed that the above noted production of norepinephrine activates alpha receptors for example in the peripheral blood vessels causing this vasoconstriction. The vasoconstriction can be offset in accordance with the present invention by treating the patient with alpha blockers when indicated preferably before cooling is initiated. Preferred alpha blockers include labetalol and carvedilol.

In the various embodiments of the invention once the medical procedure is completed the heat transfer element is preferably used to warm the body back to its normal temperature i.e. 37 C.

Regarding the construction of the heat transfer element this component is ideally a flexible element allowing it to be placed at the desired vascular position. For example the element often has to be passed though a series of one or more venous or arterial branches making flexibility an important characteristic of the heat transfer element.

Further the heat transfer element is ideally constructed from a highly thermally conductive material such as metal or very thin plastics or polymers in order to facilitate heat transfer. The use of a highly thermally conductive material increases the heat transfer rate for a given temperature differential between the fluid within the heat transfer element and the blood. Highly thermally conductive materials such as metals tend to be rigid. Therefore the design of the heat transfer element should facilitate flexibility in an inherently inflexible material.

In general the magnitude of the heat transfer rate is proportional to the surface area of the heat transfer element the temperature differential and the heat transfer coefficient of the heat transfer element.

Diameter and hence surface area of the heat transfer element is limited to avoid significant obstruction of the vein or artery and to allow the heat transfer element to easily pass through the vascular system. As noted above for placement within the inferior vena cava the cross sectional diameter of the heat transfer element is about 4 5 mm. For placement in the internal carotid artery the cross sectional diameter is about 2 to 3.5 mm. Typically the length of the heat transfer element for this purpose is about 10 to 30 cm.

When used in cooling mode decreasing the surface temperature of the heat transfer element can increase the temperature differential. However the minimum allowable surface temperature is limited by the characteristics of blood. Blood freezes at approximately 0 C. When the blood approaches freezing ice emboli may form in the blood that may lodge downstream causing serious ischemic injury. Furthermore reducing the temperature of the blood also increases its viscosity which results in a small decrease in the value of the convection heat transfer coefficient. In addition increased viscosity of the blood may result in an increase in the pressure drop within the artery or vein thus compromising the flow of blood to the organs. Given the above constraints it is advantageous to limit the minimum allowable surface temperature of the heat transfer element to approximately 5 C. This results in a maximum temperature differential between the blood stream and the heat transfer element of approximately 32 C. when the heat transfer device is used in cooling mode.

Similarly when in heating mode increasing the surface temperature of the heat transfer element can increase the temperature differential. Analogous to cooling however the maximum allowable surface temperature is limited by the characteristics of blood. In particular damage to blood components can occur at temperatures of about 45 48 C. and above. Accordingly it is advantageous to limit the maximum allowable surface temperature of the heat transfer element to approximately 44 C. This results in a maximum temperature differential between the blood stream and the heat transfer element of approximately 7 C. when the heat transfer device is used in heating mode.

The mechanisms by which the value of the convection heat transfer coefficient may be increased are complex. However it is well known that the convection heat transfer coefficient increases with the level of turbulent kinetic energy in the fluid flow. Thus it is advantageous to have turbulent or mixing blood flow in contact with the heat transfer element.

Specifically creating a turbulent boundary layer on the heat transfer element surface can increase the heat transfer rate. In the event that a smooth heat transfer element is used turbulence normally occurs in a very thin boundary layer producing only a small amount of turbulent kinetic energy and resulting in less than optimal heat transfer. Therefore to induce increase turbulent kinetic energy and thus to increase the heat transfer rate a stirring mechanism that abruptly changes the direction of velocity vectors is preferably utilized. This can create high levels of turbulence intensity in the free stream and not just the boundary layer thereby sufficiently increasing the heat transfer rate. If the flow of blood is continuous non pulsatile flow such as encountered in venous flow this turbulence or mixing intensity should be maintained at all times. In the event that blood flow is pulsatile flow such as is encountered in arterial flow the mixing intensity should be maintained over a majority of the pulsatile period e.g. the cardiac cycle .

To create the desired level of mixing intensity in the blood free stream in one preferred embodiment the heat transfer element is provided with a modular design. This design creates helical blood flow and produces a high level of mixing in the free stream by periodically forcing abrupt changes in the direction of the helical blood flow. is a perspective view of such a mixing inducing heat transfer element within a blood vessel. Mixed flow is indicated at point in the free stream area. The abrupt changes in flow direction are achieved through the use of a series of two or more heat transfer segments each comprised of one or more helical ridges.

The use of periodic abrupt changes in the helical direction of the blood flow in order to induce strong free stream turbulence or mixing may be illustrated with reference to a common clothes washing machine. The rotor of a washing machine spins initially in one direction causing laminar flow. When the rotor abruptly reverses direction significant turbulent kinetic energy is created within the entire washbasin as the changing currents cause random turbulent motion within the clothes water slurry.

The first heat transfer segment is coupled to a second elongated heat transfer segment by a first bellows section which provides flexibility and compressibility. The second heat transfer segment comprises one or more helical ridges with one or more helical grooves therebetween. The ridges and grooves have a right hand or clockwise twist as they proceed toward the distal end of the heat transfer segment . The second heat transfer segment is coupled to a third elongated heat transfer segment by a second bellows section . The third heat transfer segment comprises one or more helical ridges with one or more helical grooves therebetween. The helical ridge and the helical groove have a left hand or counter clockwise twist as they proceed toward the distal end of the heat transfer segment . Thus successive heat transfer segments of the heat transfer element alternate between having clockwise and counterclockwise helical twists. The actual left or right hand twist of any particular segment is immaterial as long as adjacent segments have opposite helical twist.

In addition the rounded contours of the ridges also allow the heat transfer element to maintain a relatively atraumatic profile thereby minimizing the possibility of damage to the blood vessel wall.

The bellows sections are formed from seamless and nonporous materials typically metals such as nickel copper etc. The structure of the bellows sections allows them to bend extend and compress which increases the flexibility of the heat transfer element so that it is more readily able to navigate through blood vessels. The bellows sections also provide for axial compression of the heat transfer element which can limit the trauma when the distal end of the heat transfer element abuts a blood vessel wall. The bellows sections are also able to tolerate cryogenic temperatures without a loss of performance.

It may be desirable to treat the surfaces of the heat transfer element to avoid clot formation. In particular one may wish to treat the bellows sections because stagnation of the blood flow may occur in the convolutions thus allowing clots to form and cling to the surface to form a thrombus. One means by which to prevent thrombus formation is to bind an antithrombogenic agent to the surface of the heat transfer element . For example heparin is known to inhibit clot formation and is also known to be useful as a biocoating. Alternatively the surfaces of the heat transfer element may be bombarded with ions such as nitrogen. Bombardment with nitrogen can harden and smooth the surface and thus prevent adherence of clotting factors to the surface.

The same mechanisms that govern the heat transfer rate between the exterior surface of the heat transfer element and the blood also govern the heat transfer rate between the working fluid and the interior surface of the heat transfer element . The heat transfer characteristics of the interior surface are particularly important when using water saline or other fluid that remains a liquid as the coolant. Other coolants such as Freon undergo nucleate boiling and create turbulence through a different mechanism. Saline is a safe coolant because it is non toxic and leakage of saline does not result in a gas embolism which could occur with the use of boiling refrigerants. Since turbulence or mixing in the coolant is enhanced by the shape of the interior surface of the heat transfer element the coolant can be delivered to the heat transfer element at a warmer temperature and still achieve the necessary heat transfer rate.

Further details and embodiments concerning the heat transfer element design and operation can be found in commonly assigned WO 99 48449 the complete disclosure of which is incorporated by reference.

In a further embodiment of the invention the heat transfer element is made of a flexible material such as latex rubber. The latex rubber provides a high degree of flexibility which was previously achieved by articulation. The latex rubber further allows the heat transfer element to be made collapsible so that when deflated the same may be easily inserted into an artery. Insertion and location may be conveniently made by way of a guide catheter or guide wire. Following insertion and location in the desired artery the heat transfer element may be inflated for use by a working fluid such as saline water perfluorocarbons or other suitable fluids.

A heat transfer element made of a flexible material generally has significantly less thermal conductivity than a heat transfer element made of metal. The device compensates for this by enhancing the surface area available for heat transfer. This may be accomplished in two ways by increasing the cross sectional size and by increasing the length. Regarding the former the device may be structured to be large when inflated because when deflated the same may still be inserted into an artery. In fact the device may be as large as the arterial wall so long as a path for blood flow is allowed because the flexibility of the device tends to prevent damage to the arterial wall even upon contact. Such paths are described below. Regarding the latter the device may be configured to be long. One way to configure a long device is to taper the same so that the device may fit into distal arteries having reduced radii in a manner described below. The device further compensates for the reduced thermal conductivity by reducing the thickness of the heat transfer element wall.

Embodiments of the device use a heat transfer element design that produces a high level of turbulence in the free stream of the blood and in the working fluid. One embodiment of the invention forces a helical motion on the working fluid and imposes a helical barrier in the blood causing turbulence. In an alternative embodiment the helical barrier is tapered. In a second alternative embodiment a tapered inflatable heat transfer element has surface features to cause turbulence. As one example the surface features may have a spiral shape. In another example the surface features may be staggered protrusions. In all of these embodiments the design forces a high level of turbulence in the free stream of the blood by causing the blood to navigate a tortuous path while passing through the artery. This tortuous path causes the blood to undergo violent accelerations resulting in turbulence.

In a third alternative embodiment of the invention a taper of an inflatable heat transfer element provides enough additional surface area per se to cause sufficient heat transfer. In all of the embodiments the inflation is performed by the working fluid such as water or saline.

Referring to a side view is shown of a first embodiment of a heat transfer element according to an embodiment of the invention. The heat transfer element is formed by an inlet lumen and an outlet lumen . In this embodiment the outlet lumen is formed in a helix shape surrounding the inlet lumen that is formed in a pipe shape. The names of the lumens are of course not limiting. It will be clear to one skilled in the art that the inlet lumen may serve as an outlet and the outlet lumen may serve as an inlet. It will also be clear that the heat transfer element is capable of both heating by delivering heat to and cooling by removing heat from a desired area.

The heat transfer element is rigid but flexible so as to be insertable in an appropriate vessel by use of a guide catheter. Alternatively the heat transfer element may employ a device for threading a guide wire therethrough to assist placement within an artery. The heat transfer element has an inflated length of L a helical diameter of D a tubal diameter of d and a helical angle of . For example Dmay be about 3.3 mm and d may be about 0.9 mm to 1 mm. Of course the tubal diameter d need not be constant. For example the diameter of the inlet lumen may differ from that of the outlet lumen .

The shape of the outlet lumen in is helical. This helical shape presents a cylindrical obstacle in cross section to the flow of blood. Such obstacles tend to create turbulence in the free stream of blood. In particular the form of turbulence is the creation of von Karman vortices in the wake of the flow of blood downstream of the cylindrical obstacles.

Typical inflatable materials are not highly thermally conductive. They are much less conductive than the metallic heat transfer element disclosed in the patent application incorporated by reference above. The difference in conductivity is compensated for in at least two ways in the present device. The material is made thinner and the heat transfer element is afforded a larger surface area. Regarding the former the thickness may be less than about mil for adequate cooling.

Thin inflatable materials particularly those with large surface areas may require a structure such as a wire within their interiors to maintain their approximate uninflated positions so that upon inflation the proper form is achieved. Thus a wire structure is shown in which may be advantageously disposed within the inflatable material to perform such a function.

Another consideration is the angle . of the helix. Angle should be determined to optimize the helical motion of the blood around the lumens and enhancing heat transfer. Of course angle should also be determined to optimize the helical motion of the working fluid within the lumens and . The helical motion of the working fluid within the lumens and increases the turbulence in the working fluid by creating secondary motions. In particular helical motion of a fluid in a pipe induces two counter rotating secondary flows.

An enhancement of hwould be obtained in this system and this enhancement may be described by a Nusselt number Nu of up to about 10 or even more.

The above discussion describes one embodiment of a heat transfer element. An alternative embodiment of the device shown in a side view in illustrates a heat transfer element with a surface area enhancement. Increasing the surface area of the inflatable material enhances heat transfer. The heat transfer element includes a series of coils or helices of different coil diameters and tubal diameters. It is not strictly necessary that the tubal diameters differ but it is likely that commercially realizable systems will have differing tubal diameters. The heat transfer element may taper either continuously or segmentally.

This alternative embodiment enhances surface area in two ways. First the use of smaller diameter lumens enhances the overall surface to volume ratio. Second the use of progressively smaller i.e. tapered lumens allows a distal end to be inserted further into an artery than would be possible with the embodiment of .

In the embodiment of a first coil segment is shown having length Land diameter D. The first coil segment is formed of an inlet lumen having diameter dand an outlet lumen having diameter d. In the first coil segment as well as the others the outlet lumen need not immediately drain the inlet lumen. In the inlet lumen for each segment feeds the inlet lumen of the succeeding segment except for an inlet lumen adjacent a distal end of the heat transfer element which directly feeds its corresponding outlet lumen.

A separate embodiment may also be constructed in which the inlet lumens each provide working fluid to their corresponding outlet lumens. In this embodiment either a separate lumen needs to be provided to drain each outlet lumen or each outlet lumen rains into the adjacent outlet lumen. This embodiment has the advantage that an opposite helicity may be accorded each successive segment. The opposite helicities in turn enhance the turbulence of the working fluid flowing past them. A second coil segment is shown having length Land diameter D. The second coil segment is formed of an inlet lumen having diameter dand an outlet lumen having diameter d. A third coil segment is shown having length Land diameter D. The third coil segment is formed of an inlet lumen having diameter dand an outlet lumen having diameter d. Likewise a fourth coil segment is shown having length Land diameter D. The fourth coil segment is formed of an inlet lumen having diameter dand an outlet lumen having diameter d. The diameters of the lumens especially that of the lumen located at or near distal end should be large enough to not restrict the flow of the working fluid within them. Of course any number of lumens may be provided depending on the requirements of the user.

An advantage to this alternative embodiment arises from the smaller diameters of the distal segments. The heat transfer element of may be placed in smaller workspaces than the heat transfer element of . For example a treatment for brain trauma may include placement of a cooling device in the internal carotid artery of a patient. As noted above the common carotid artery feeds the internal carotid artery. In some patients the heat transfer element of may not fit in the internal carotid artery. Similarly the first coil segment of the heat transfer element in may not easily fit in the internal carotid artery although the second third and fourth segments may fit. Thus in the embodiment of the first coil segment may remain in the common carotid artery while the segments of smaller diameter the second third and fourth may be placed in the internal carotid artery. In fact in this embodiment D may be large such as 5 6 mm. The overall length of the heat transfer element may be e.g. about 20 to 25 cm.

An additional advantage was mentioned above. The surface area of the alternative embodiment of may be substantially larger than that of the embodiment of resulting in significantly enhanced heat transfer. For example the enhancement in surface area may be substantial such as up to or even more than three times compared to the surface area of the device of the application incorporated by reference above. An additional advantage of both embodiments is that the helical rounded shape allows a traumatic insertion into cylindrical cavities such as e.g. arteries.

Heat transfer element has a number of surface features disposed thereon. The surface features may be constructed with e.g. various hardening treatments applied to the heat transfer element or alternatively by injection molding. The hardening treatments may result in a wavy or corrugated surface to the exterior of heat transfer element . The hardening treatments may further result in a wavy or corrugated surface to the interior of heat transfer element . shows a variation of this embodiment in which a fabrication process is used which results in a spiral or helical shape to the surface features.

In another variation of this embodiment shown in a heat transfer element employs a plurality of protrusions on outlet lumen which surrounds an inlet lumen . In particular is a cut away perspective view of an alternative embodiment of a heat transfer element . A working fluid is circulated through an inlet lumen to a distal tip of the heat transfer element thereby inflating the heat transfer element . The working fluid then traverses an outlet coaxial lumen in order to transfer heat from the exterior surface of the heat transfer element . The inside structure of the heat transfer element is similar to the exterior structure in order to induce turbulent flow of the working fluid.

An external surface of the inflatable heat transfer element is covered with a series of staggered protrusions . The staggered nature of the protrusions is readily seen with reference to which is a transverse cross sectional view of an inflated heat transfer element taken along the line in . In order to induce free stream turbulence the height d of the staggered protrusions is greater than the thickness of the boundary layer which would develop if a smooth heat transfer element had been introduced into the blood stream. As the blood flows along the external surface it collides with one of the staggered protrusions and a turbulent flow is created. As the blood divides and swirls along side of the first staggered protrusion it collides with another staggered protrusion within its path preventing the re lamination of the flow and creating yet more turbulence. In this way the velocity vectors are randomized and free stream turbulence is created. As is the case with the other embodiments this geometry also induces a turbulent effect on the internal coolant flow.

Of course other surface features may also be used which result in turbulence in fluids flowing past them. These include spirals helices protrusions various polygonal bodies pyramids tetrahedrons wedges etc.

In some situations an enhanced surface area alone without the creation of additional turbulence may result in sufficient heat transfer to cool the blood. Referring to a heat transfer element is shown having an inlet lumen and an outlet lumen . The inlet lumen provides a working fluid to the heat transfer element and outlet lumen drains the working fluid from the same. The functions may of course be reversed. The heat transfer element is further divided into five segments although more or less may be provided as dictated by requirements of the user. The five segments in are denoted segments and . In the segment has a first and largest radius R followed by corresponding radii for segments and . Segment has a second and smallest radius. The length of the segment is L followed by corresponding lengths for segments and .

A purely tapered nonsegmented form may replace the tapered segmental form but the former may be more difficult to manufacture. In either case the tapered form allows the heat transfer element to be disposed in small arteries i.e. arteries with radii smaller than R. A sufficient surface area is thus afforded even in very small arteries to provide the required heat transfer.

The surface area and thus the size of the device should be substantial to provide the necessary heat transfer. Example dimensions for a three segmented tapered form may be as follows L 10 cm R 2.5 mm L 10 cm R 1.65 mm L 5 cm R 1 mm. Such a heat transfer element would have an overall length of 25 cm and a surface area of 3 10m.

The embodiment of results in an enhancement of the heat transfer rate of up to about 300 due to the increased surface area S alone.

A variation of the embodiment of includes placing at least one turbulence inducing surface feature within the interior of the outlet lumen . This surface feature may induce turbulence in the working fluid thereby increasing the convective heat transfer rate in the manner described above.

Another variation of the embodiment of involves reducing the joint diameter between segments not shown .

For example the inflatable material may be formed such that joints and have a diameter only slightly greater than that of the inlet lumen . In other words the heat transfer element has a tapered sausage shape.

In all of the embodiments the inflatable material may be formed from seamless and nonporous materials which are therefore impermeable to gas. Impermeability can be particularly important depending on the type of working fluid which is cycled through the heat transfer element. For example the inflatable material may be latex or other such rubber materials or alternatively of any other material with similar properties under inflation. The flexible material allows the heat transfer element to bend extend and compress so that it is more readily able to navigate through tiny blood vessels. The material also provides for axial compression of the heat transfer element which can limit the trauma when the distal end of the heat transfer element abuts a blood vessel wall. The material should be chosen to tolerate temperatures in the range of 1 C. to 37 C. or even higher in the case of blood heating without a loss of performance.

It may be desirable to treat the surface of the heat transfer element to avoid clot formation because the heat transfer element may dwell within the blood vessel for extended periods of time such as 24 48 hours or even longer. One means by which to prevent thrombus formation is to bind an antithrombogenic agent to the surface of the heat transfer element. For example heparin is known to inhibit clot formation and is also known to be useful as a biocoating.

Referring back to an embodiment of the method of the invention will be described. A description with reference to the embodiment of is analogous. A guide catheter or wire may be disposed up to or near the area to be cooled or heated. The case of a guide catheter will be discussed here. The heat transfer element may be fed through the guide catheter to the area. Alternatively the heat transfer element may form a portion of the guide catheter. A portion of the interior of the guide catheter may form e.g. the return lumen for the working fluid. In any case the movement of the heat transfer element is made significantly more convenient by the flexibility of the heat transfer element as has been described above.

Once the heat transfer element is in place a working fluid such as saline or other aqueous solution may be circulated through the heat transfer element to inflate the same. Fluid flows from a supply catheter into the inlet lumen . At the distal end of the heat transfer element the working fluid exits the inlet lumen and enters the outlet lumen .

In the case of the embodiment of for which the description of is analogous the working fluid exits the inlet lumen and enters an outlet inflatable lumen having segments and . As the working fluid flows through the outlet lumen heat is transferred from the exterior surface of the heat transfer element to the working fluid. The temperature of the external surface may reach very close to the temperature of the working fluid because the heat transfer element is constructed from very thin material.

The working fluids that may be employed in the device include water saline or other fluids which remain liquid at the temperatures used. Other coolants such as freon undergo nucleated boiling and may create turbulence through a different mechanism. Saline is a safe coolant because it is non toxic and leakage of saline does not result in a gas embolism which may occur with the use of boiling refrigerants.

By enhancing turbulence in the coolant the coolant can be delivered to the heat transfer element at a warmer temperature and still achieve the necessary heat transfer rate. In particular the enhanced heat transfer characteristics of the internal structure allow the working fluid to be delivered to the heat transfer element at lower flow rates and lower pressures. This is advantageous because high pressures may stiffen the heat transfer element and cause the same to push against the wall of the vessel thereby shielding part of the heat transfer unit from the blood. Such pressures are unlikely to damage the walls of the vessel because of the increased flexibility of the inflated device. The increased heat transfer characteristics allow the pressure of the working fluid to be delivered at pressures as low as 5 atmospheres 3 atmospheres 2 atmospheres or even less than 1 atmosphere.

In a preferred embodiment the heat transfer element creates a turbulence intensity greater than 0.05 in order to create the desired level of turbulence in the entire blood stream during the whole cardiac cycle. The turbulence intensity may be greater than 0.055 0.06 0.07 or up to 0.10 or 0.20 or even greater.

The heat transfer element can absorb or provide over 75 watts of heat to the blood stream and may absorb or provide as much as 100 watts 150 watts 170 watts or more. For example a heat transfer element with a diameter of 4 mm and a length of approximately 10 cm using ordinary saline solution chilled so that the surface temperature of the heat transfer element is approximately 5 C. and pressurized at 2 atmospheres can absorb about 150 watts of energy from the bloodstream. Smaller geometry heat transfer elements may be developed for use with smaller organs which provide 60 watts 50 watts 25 watts or less of heat transfer.

Although the present invention has been described with respect to several exemplary embodiments there are many other variations of the above described embodiments that will be apparent to those skilled in the art. It is understood that these variations are within the teaching of the present invention which is to be limited only by the claims appended hereto.

