---

title: System and method for fulfillment services coordination
abstract: Various embodiments of the system and method for managing sales and fulfillment services described herein may include a fulfillment coordination service. The fulfillment coordination service may be configured to receive a selection of one or more items of a merchant. The one or more items may be registered for fulfillment service with a fulfillment service provider. The fulfillment coordination service may also be configured to generate a sales listing for each selected item for listing with a sales listing provider. The fulfillment coordination service may in various embodiments receive an order indication for one or more of the selected items listed on the sales listing. The fulfillment coordination service may be configured to send a fulfillment request to the fulfillment service provider for the one or more items indicated by the order indication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08688540&OS=08688540&RS=08688540
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08688540
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080226
---
In order to offer customers a variety of items readily available for delivery many merchants whether engaging in electronic or conventional brick and mortar commerce hold various quantities of such items within inventory facilities. Keeping items in inventory may serve to buffer variations in customer demand or a manufacturer or distributor s ability to supply various items. For example different items offered for sale by a merchant may have different manufacturer lead times. Holding quantities of such items as inventory may enable a merchant to offer consistent availability of these items to customers despite the different lead times.

However in some circumstances holding inventory may present various costs or disadvantages to a merchant. For example inventory storage facilities may be expensive to provision and maintain particularly for smaller merchants who may not be able to efficiently and profitably distribute the fixed costs of such facilities across a limited quantity of inventory. Moreover should the need arise scaling an inventory system to accommodate increased demand or volume may be an expensive proposition requiring substantial investment in technology facilities and or staffing. As electronic commerce grows in popularity many merchants increasingly list their offerings along with other merchants via electronic marketplaces that provide a common interface through which customers may search for items and place orders. In many cases such electronic marketplaces include information about the products sold via the listings of the marketplace.

While the system and method for managing sales and fulfillment services is described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that the system and method for managing sales and fulfillment services is not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit embodiments to the particular form disclosed. The intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the system and method for managing sales and fulfillment services as defined by the appended claims. Any headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used herein the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to.

Various embodiments of a system and method for managing sales and fulfillment services are described. The system and method for managing sales and fulfillment services may include a fulfillment coordination service configured to coordinate the interaction of multiple services providers associated with the sale and or fulfillment of one or more items. For instance in various embodiments the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to among other things communicate with merchants to generate sales listings from item description information receive purchase notifications that indicate the sale of one or more items via such sales listings and communicate with fulfillment services provider s to complete the fulfillment of such items. In some embodiments the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to communicate with one or more payment service providers. For instance the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to receive from a payment service provider a payment confirmation notification that indicates a customer has provided payment for one or more items sold via the generated sales listings.

In various embodiments each merchant controlling respective ones of merchant systems may have one or more merchant accounts with various ones of the service providers controlling systems . In some embodiments fulfillment coordination service may be configured to receive merchant authentication information from one or more merchants controlling various ones of merchant systems . For instance merchants may use various ones of merchant systems to provide usernames passwords pass codes security codes Personal Identification Numbers PINs authentication tokens and or other authentication information to fulfillment coordination service . Such authentication information may enable the fulfillment coordination service to access the various service provider systems on behalf of the user. In some cases such authentication information may be the same authentication information used by a merchant to access each service provider system independent of the fulfillment coordination service.

In various embodiments each of the merchants controlling ones of merchant systems may have one or more items for sale e.g. inventory . Each merchant s inventory may be stored in various locations. In some embodiments the merchant may be responsible for storing and managing such inventory. In other embodiments as described in more detail below with respect to fulfillment services providers the merchants inventory may be stored and or managed by other commercial entities e.g. a fulfillment service provider . In various embodiments fulfillment coordination service may be configured to track and record e.g. in a database or other data store the status and or inventory level of such inventory irrespective of the inventory s location. In this manner the fulfillment coordination service may provide a single location from which a merchant may manage their inventory even if such inventory is located in disparate locations and or managed by disparate commercial entities . For instance in one embodiment some of a merchant s inventory is managed by the merchant while other portions of the merchant s inventory are managed by various ones of the fulfillment service providers that control fulfillment service provider systems . In this example fulfillment coordination service may enable the merchant to view and or manage all of such inventory via a user interface provided by interface A.

In various embodiments the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to provide a real time or near real time view of a merchant s inventory e.g. a listing of such inventory and corresponding inventory levels . For instance changes in inventory levels of various items may be determined or detected by fulfillment coordination service irrespective of where such items reside and or which commercial entity manages such items. For example one of sales listing provider system s may provide e.g. via interface B to fulfillment coordination service information that indicates a particular item of the merchant s inventory has been sold. Accordingly fulfillment coordination service may update its record of the merchant s inventory to reflect a reduction in the inventory level for the particular item sold. Similarly a merchant may provide e.g. via interface A to fulfillment coordination service information that indicates an item has been added to the merchant s inventory. Accordingly fulfillment coordination service may update its record of the merchant s inventory to reflect an increase in the inventory level for the respective item.

As described above fulfillment coordination service may be configured to track and manage a merchant s inventory irrespective of which commercial entity manages such items. In some cases such inventory may be existing inventory such as inventory previously registered with and provided to each commercial entity e.g. a fulfillment services provider. However in various embodiments the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to register new inventory items with one or more commercial entities. For instance the fulfillment coordination service may enable a merchant to specify one or more items for fulfillment with various fulfillment service providers. For each specified item the fulfillment coordination service may notify the respective fulfillment service provider of the new inventory. In various embodiments the fulfillment coordination service may also generate shipping information e.g. shipping labels for the items to facilitate the shipment of such items from the merchant to the respective fulfillment services provider. In other cases such as when the merchant utilizes a third party product supplier the fulfillment coordination service may provide a notification to such supplier. Such notification may specify one or more inventory items to be shipped to a particular fulfillment services provider in order to facilitate the shipment of such items from the supplier to the fulfillment services provider or other specified commercial entity .

In various embodiments fulfillment coordination service may generate one or more sales listings for one or more items of the merchant s inventory. For instance in various embodiments a merchant may provide e.g. via interface A to fulfillment coordination service information that indicates one or more items for which sales listings should be generated. In some cases such information may also indicate a particular sales listing provider that should host such generated sales listings e.g. one or more of the sales listing providers that control sales listing provider systems . For example for a particular item of the merchant s inventory fulfillment coordination service may generate a sales listing and provide such sales listing e.g. the data that defines such sales listing to one or more of sales listing provider systems to be hosted. In other cases one or more of sales listing provider systems s may be responsive to one or more commands for generating sales listings. In such cases fulfillment coordination service may send such commands to one or more of sales listing provider systems in order to generate sales listings to hosted by systems . In some cases the fulfillment coordination service may also provide to sales listing provider systems item description information described in more detail below with such commands. One or more of sales listing provider systems may use such commands and or item description information to generate sales listings accessible to one or more customers. For instance the sales listing provider systems may be configured to host such sales listings such that the sales listings are accessible via a network e.g. the Internet . In such a case customers may browse and or purchase items via such sales listings.

In various embodiments the sales listings generated by fulfillment coordination service may be generated based on item description information. In various embodiments item description information may be stored and or managed by the fulfillment coordination service. In some cases some or all of the item description information may be stored and or managed by one or more of service provider systems such as one of fulfillment service provider systems . In such cases the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to access item description information from any of such systems. In various embodiments item description information may include keywords associated with various inventory items text based descriptions of various inventory items e.g. a description of an item s features or a description of an item s physical appearance prices for various inventory items dimensions of various inventory items weights for various inventory items and or images and or video or other multimedia of various inventory items. In various embodiments the item description information may have been obtained by the fulfillment coordination service from other commercial entities such as item manufactures. In other cases such item description information may be generated by the fulfillment coordination service or any of the illustrated service provider systems.

In various embodiments the generated sales listings may be online auctions that enables customers to bid on and win one or more items listed for auction with one of sales listing provider systems . In other cases instead of online auctions the sales listings provided may be product web pages or other item listings accessible by one or more customers via a network. In various embodiments it may be beneficial for a merchant to have a particular item s listed for sale in multiple locations e.g. listed by multiple sales listing providers . For instance in some cases listing a particular item s for sale with multiple sales listing service providers may increase the particular item s exposure to customers and in some cases increase the chance that such item will be purchased.

In various embodiments when an item is sold via the sales listings provided by various ones of sales listing provider systems the respective sales listing provider system may provide fulfillment coordination service with a notification that indicates such items have been sold. However in other cases the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to poll various ones of sales listing provider systems to determine whether one or more items have sold. For instance in one embodiment one of sales listing provider systems may be configured to offer an item for via an online auction. In such an embodiment the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to poll the sales listing provider system at or near e.g. slightly after the time at which the particular auction is scheduled to end in order to determine if the item up for auction was purchased.

As described above each of sales listing provider systems may host sales listings e.g. sales listing generated by fulfillment coordination service such that the sales listings are accessible to one or more customers e.g. via the Internet or another network . In some embodiments one or more of sales listing provider systems may be configured to process payments from customers for one or more of a merchant s items. In such embodiments the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to receive a payment confirmation notification from the sales listing provider such notification indicating that a particular item or items of the merchant s inventory has been sold. In this case the fulfillment coordination service may update its inventory records and provide a fulfillment request to one or more of fulfillment service provider systems . Fulfillment services provider systems may process such fulfillment request described in more detail below .

In other embodiments one or more of sales listing provider systems may be configured to for one or more items sold via the generated sales listings rely on a payment service provider to process the payment for such items. For instance when an item is purchased via the generated sales listings hosted by one or more of sales listing provider systems such sales listing provider system s may provide a purchase notification to the fulfillment coordination service. Such notification may indicate that one or more particular items have been purchased as well as other information including but not limited to contact information for the purchaser e.g. name address phone number etc. and payment information e.g. order total type of credit card credit account number bank account number routing number or other payment account information . The fulfillment coordination service may forward this notification to be processed by one or more of payment service provider systems . In some embodiments one or more of sales listing provider systems may directly provide e.g. outside of fulfillment coordination service such notification to a payment service provider system of payment service provider systems . Payment service provider s may each be configured to process payments for one or more items sold via the generated sales listings described above. For instance in response to the notifications described above a payment service provider system may be configured to communicate with the respective customer to e.g. obtain payment or payment authorization information. The payment service provider system may be configured to process the respective payment and provide the fulfillment coordination service a notification that indicates the items for which payment has been successfully processed.

In various embodiments the fulfillment coordination service may generate an order fulfillment request for fulfillment of one or more items sold via the sales listings hosted by sales listing provider systems . Such fulfillment request may be generated based on a payment confirmation notification described above received from a sales listing provider system or a payment service provider system. One or more of such order fulfillment requests may be provided e.g. via interface D to ones of fulfillment service provider systems . Such order fulfillment requests may indicate one or more items e.g. items sold via the sales listings hosted by the sales listing provider systems to be packaged and or shipped to customers that have purchased such items. The fulfillment service provider controlling the fulfillment service provider system that receives such an order fulfillment request may locate package and or ship such items to the respective customer.

In various embodiments for a particular order fulfillment request the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to determine or select a particular fulfillment service provider to which to send the order fulfillment request for fulfillment. For instance the fulfillment coordination service may determine the particular fulfillment provider system to which to provide the order fulfillment request based on the proximity of the fulfillment service provider to the destination address to which the items are shipped. In another example the fulfillment coordination service may determine the particular fulfillment provider system to which to provide the order fulfillment request based on the inventory levels of the various fulfillment service providers. For instance if a fulfillment service provider is out of stock of a particular item that fulfillment service provider may not be considered for fulfillment of such item.

In various embodiments fulfillment coordination service may communicate with one or more other service provider systems . In some embodiments other service provider systems may include a customer service management system. For instance in addition to an order fulfillment request for one or more particular items the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to generate a customer service request and provide such request to the customer service provider system. Accordingly the customer service provider may for each item specified by the customer service request perform a variety of services including but not limited to providing tracking services e.g. tracking the shipped items in transit to ensure proper delivery fielding customer calls regarding such items and or managing returns exchanges for such items. In some embodiments ones of other service provider systems may be storage service systems controlled by a storage service provider. Fulfillment coordination service may in various embodiments use such storage service systems for storage and or retrieval of data such as data related to item sales or order fulfillment. In some embodiments ones of other service provider systems may be a queuing service provider configured to queue one or more jobs related to item sales or order fulfillment.

Note that in various embodiments various ones of the entities that control each of the systems of e.g. items may be different commercial entities or in some cases the same commercial entities or some combination thereof. In general the fulfillment coordination service may be controlled by a fulfillment coordination service provider and at least one of the other illustrated systems e.g. at least one of items is controlled by a separate or different commercial entity. In one embodiment described in more detail below a commercial entity controlling the fulfillment coordination service and a commercial entity controlling various ones of fulfillment service provider systems are the same commercial entity.

In some embodiments the fulfillment coordination service may be implemented by a fulfillment services provider that provides fulfillment services to one or more merchants e.g. the fulfillment service providers that control fulfillment service provider systems such as described below with respect to . For example merchants may provide inventory e.g. one or more items to the fulfillment services provider. When such items are sold to a customer the fulfillment services provider may provide fulfillment services e.g. locating packing shipping and or other actions for the items. In various embodiments the fulfillment service provider may provide a database of item characteristics and other information related to the items for which the provider provides fulfillment services. The fulfillment services provider may leverage such information to generate sales listings on computer systems of entities other than the fulfillment services provider. In this way different sales listings for a merchant s items may be located in multiple venues. For instance a particular item may have a corresponding sales listing hosted by the fulfillment services provider. Additionally the fulfillment coordination service described herein may generate another sales listing e.g. a different type of sales listing such as an auction on a computer system of a commercial entity other than the fulfillment services provider. In some cases such multiple sales listings for a single item may increase the exposure of the item to potential customers. Additional description of fulfillment services providers is provided by U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 351 881 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 756 160 which applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety including any appendices and references thereto.

The fulfillment services provider may be configured to provide fulfillment services to one or more merchants. In general fulfillment services may include any actions relating to the storage and processing of items e.g. item s within fulfillment center as well as the fulfillment of specific customer orders for various ones of items . For example fulfillment services may include those tasks involved in receiving items into inventory such as taking physical receipt of units or quantities of items examining and or evaluating the condition of received items unpacking or repackaging items if necessary and storing items within item handling facility . Fulfillment services may also include selecting or picking items from item handling facility in response to a customer order as well as packaging and shipping tasks for providing items to the customer. In some embodiments fulfillment services may include other tasks undertaken on behalf of a merchant such as inspecting or monitoring the quantity and or condition of items while stored in item handling facility e.g. stored as inventory receiving and processing items returned from customers processing and disposing of items that are unmarketable for various reasons e.g. items that are surplus damaged expired spoiled etc. engaging in customer service activities e.g. responding to complaints inquiries etc. with customers or other types of tasks.

In various embodiments merchant system which may be a computer system or other system owned or operated by the illustrated merchant may be configured to enable a user to register or list items for fulfillment services. For instance the merchant may desire to sell one or more items e.g. item s but may not have the ability or desire to provide fulfillment services for sale of such items. For example in some cases the merchant may not have the requisite infrastructure for fulfilling orders for item s in other cases it may be profitable and or convenient for the merchant to have a another party e.g. the illustrated fulfillment services provider provide fulfillment services for item s . In one embodiment the merchant may utilize merchant system to access an interface e.g. a network based interface such as a website or web based account of inventory management system configured to enable merchants to register or list items for sale. For example through such interface the merchant may select or search for items e.g. item s within database . For instance database may store searchable item description characteristics for multiple items. Such characteristics may include keywords associated with various items text based descriptions of various items e.g. a description of an item s features or a description of an item s physical appearance prices for various items dimensions of various items weights for various items and or images and or video or other multimedia of various items. The merchant may also use merchant system to specify quantities of each item for which fulfillment services should be provided by the fulfillment services provider.

As described in more detail below inventory management system may create sales listings for the items registered by the merchant. In some cases such sales listings may be based on or include information from the item description information of database . While database is illustrated as a component of inventory management system database may in various other embodiments be implemented by another system controlled by the illustrated fulfillment services provider. In some embodiments database may be provided and or controlled by an entity other than the illustrated fulfillment services provider. For instance in some embodiments database may be provided and or controlled e.g. by another fulfillment services provider or e.g. by a product manufacturer. In some embodiments another entity may provide database and provide its functionality to the fulfillment services provider via a network based interface e.g. a web services interface .

In the illustrated embodiment the merchant may also provide item s e.g. items registered or listed with the fulfillment services provider via the interface provided by inventory management system to the fulfillment services provider. For instance the merchant may ship item s via one or more shipments to the fulfillment services provider. For instance the merchant may ship the items via a shipping carrier to an address of item handling facility . In various embodiments to ship the items to the fulfillment services provider the merchant may affix shipping labels provided by the fulfillment services provider to packages or shipping containers containing items . In some embodiments the fulfillment services provider may provide shipping containers which may be pre labeled with e.g. prepaid shipping labels in which the merchant may pack items . Subsequent to packing items in such shipping containers the merchant may ship the shipping containers including items to the fulfillment services provider. The fulfillment services provider may store items as inventory of item handling facility . Note that the fulfillment services provider may provide fulfillment services to multiple and in some cases many different merchants. Accordingly item handling facility may handle multiple different items from multiple different merchants. Likewise inventory may include multiple different items from multiple different merchants.

In various embodiments the fulfillment services provider may also communicate and or interact with one or more customers such as the illustrated customer of . For example inventory management system may include a sales listing interface e.g. sales listing interface configured to provide sales listings generated by the inventory management system . For instance for items registered with the fulfillment services provider the inventory management system may locate corresponding item description information from database . Inventory management system may generate a sales listing such as a product webpage to offer the item for sale to one or more customers such as the customer of the illustrated embodiment. Note that while the fulfillment services provider may offer the items e.g. items for sale via one or more sales listing the merchant that registered the items may remain the seller of record e.g. the seller of record with respect to tax or other regulatory purposes for such items.

As illustrated by the communication between customer system and sales listing interface the customer may browse and or purchase items via sales listing interface . For instance customer system may be equipped with a web browser configured to view web pages. Accordingly sales listing interface may provide sales listings to customer system in the form of e.g. one or more product web pages. The sales listings provided to the customer system may offer one or more items e.g. one or more of items for sale. For instance the sales listings may enable a customer to place an order for one or more items and engage in a checkout process. Such checkout process may enable the user to purchase selected quantities of items from the fulfillment service provider s inventory.

After determining that a customer has paid for an order including one or more items e.g. items from inventory the inventory management system may provide the illustrated shipment information to the item handling facility. The shipment information may indicate that a shipment of one or more particular items e.g. items of inventory should be shipped to the purchasing customer e.g. the customer that placed an order for such items . The shipment information may also include information with respect to the contents of the shipment e.g. the specific items that should be included the quantities of each item that should be included etc. as well as information with respect to shipping the shipment to the customer e.g. destination and return addresses a selection of a shipping carrier and shipping preferences such as preferences indicating normal or expedited shipping . In the illustrated embodiment the fulfillment services provider may ship purchased items e.g. items to the customer within shipment which may include one or more shipping containers. Such shipment may be shipped according to the shipment information provided to the item handling facility.

As described above the illustrated fulfillment services provider may provide a database e.g. database of item description information. Such information may include keywords associated with various items text based descriptions of various items e.g. a description of an item s features or a description of an item s physical appearance prices for various items dimensions of various items weights for various items and or images and or video or other multimedia of various items. In various embodiments database may include item description information for each item of inventory . Since inventory may include multiple items registered and provided by multiple merchants database may include a wealth of item description information for various items. Fulfillment coordination service may leverage or use such item description information from database to generate sales listings on computer systems of entities other than the illustrated fulfillment services provider. In this way the sales management interface may enable merchants to quickly and efficiently create sales listings in venues or marketplaces beyond the illustrated fulfillment services provider. As described above the existence of multiple sales listings for a particular merchant s items may increase the exposure of such items and in some cases increase the chance that such items will be purchased.

In various embodiments fulfillment coordination service may enable merchants to view a record of their inventory e.g. items stored within inventory and select one or more items for which additional sales listings e.g. sales listings other than those provided by sales listing interface as described above are to be generated. Such additional sales listings may in various embodiments be hosted by entities other than the illustrated fulfillment services provider such as the illustrated sales listing provider. To enable a merchant to select items from their inventory for which such additional sales listings should be generated fulfillment coordination service may be configured to provide an interface such as merchant interface A illustrated as I F A . Merchant interface A may be configured to provide merchant system with a user interface for selecting items from the merchant s inventory for which such additional sales listings are to be generated. In some embodiments the user interface may be accessible over a network for example the user interface may be a web based interface and the merchant system may access the user interface via the Internet. In some cases merchant interface A may require the merchant system to provide user authentication data such as a username and password before accessing the user interface.

As illustrated by the communication between merchant system and merchant interface A the user interface may enable the merchant to select one or more of the items via merchant system . The merchant may use merchant system to select one or more of the merchant s registered items e.g. items for which the fulfillment services provider provides fulfillment services on behalf of the merchant and indicate such selection to the fulfillment coordination service. For each selected item the fulfillment coordination service may be configured generate a sales listing on another computer system such as sales listing provider system . Furthermore the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to generate a sales listing for a particular item based on corresponding item description information from database . To do so the fulfillment coordination service may as illustrated in access item description information and other item related data from database . As described above this information may include keywords associated with various items text based descriptions of various items e.g. a description of an item s features or a description of an item s physical appearance prices for various items dimensions of various items weights for various items and or images and or video or other multimedia of various items.

In various embodiments fulfillment coordination service may include management interface B illustrated as I F B for communicating with a sales listing interface e.g. sales listing interface of sales listing provider system . In various embodiments management interface B and or sales listing interface may include one or more web services interfaces configured to send and receive calls over a network such as the Internet.

In various embodiments the fulfillment coordination service may generate a sales listing and subsequently provide the sales listing to the sales listing provider system. In other cases the sales listing component may send via management interface B one or more commands e.g. sales listing generation commands to the sales listing provider system via sales listing interface . Sales listing provider system may be configured to generate a sales listing in response to such commands received from fulfillment coordination service. In some embodiments commands sent to sales listing provider system from fulfillment coordination service may indicate that data from database e.g. item description information is to be included in a sales listing generated by the sales listing provider system. In these cases the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to provide such data to the sales listing provider system. In this way whether the fulfillment coordination service generates the sales listing locally or alternatively generates the sales listing by sending sales listing generation commands and or item description data the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to generate one or more sales listings on other computer systems including computer systems of entities other than the fulfillment services provider e.g. sales listing provider system .

In various embodiments the sales listings generated by the fulfillment coordination service on sales listing provider system may include auction based sales listings. For instance unlike some sales listings that provide a fixed price at which a customer may purchase the item s of the sales listing an auction based sales listing may enable a customer to bid on an item. In some cases such sales listing may enable multiple customers to bid on the same item. Additional description of auction based sales listings is provided below with respect to .

In the illustrated embodiment sales listing provider system may be configured to receive payment from customer system e.g. receive a valid credit account number a bank account and routing number pair as well as authorization authentication information such as a password or personal identification number etc. for a particular monetary amount e.g. the cost of one or more items of the order . Once the customer has paid for the item s of the order the sales listing provider system may send a notification of such payment to fulfillment coordination service . In some cases such notification may include an indication of the purchased item s an indication of the total cost for the order an indication of shipping preferences e.g. preferences indicating normal or expedited shipping and or selection of a shipping carrier etc. a ship to address e.g. the address to which the item s are to be shipped and or additional information e.g. coupon or discount codes shipping discounts gift wrapping options etc. . In one embodiment the fulfillment coordination service may query the order management interface e.g. via a web service call for such information. In this way information can be pushed from sales listing provider system to fulfillment coordination service or alternatively pulled by the sale management component from the sales listing provider system. In some cases during the same communication session some portions of information may be pushed by the sales listing provider system to the fulfillment coordination service while other portions may be pulled from the sales listing provider system by the fulfillment coordination service. Note that the fulfillment coordination service and or the sales listing component may perform such pushing and or pulling via one or more web service calls. For instance the order management interface may send a notification that indicates a customer has purchased a particular item. In response the fulfillment coordination service may query e.g. via a web service call the sales listing provider system for additional information such as the shipping address to which the particular item is to be shipped or any of the other information described above .

After being notified that a customer has submitted payment for an order of one or more items the fulfillment coordination service may generate an order fulfillment request for the order. The order fulfillment request may specify the item s e.g. items of inventory to be fulfilled e.g. located handled packaged and or shipped to the purchasing customer as well as shipping information e.g. preferences indicating normal or expedited shipping and or selection of a shipping carrier etc. a ship to address e.g. the address to which the item s are to be shipped and or additional information e.g. coupon or discount codes shipping discounts gift wrapping options etc. . Note that while such element is referred to as a request the order fulfillment request may in some embodiments actually comprise one or more commands with respect to the fulfillment of an order of one or more items e.g. a command to fulfill the order . The inventory management system may be configured to generate shipment information based on the order fulfillment request such as the illustrated shipment information transmitted from inventory management system to item handling facility . Similar to the operation of the item handling facility described with respect to item handling facility may use the shipment information to e.g. locate the appropriate items of inventory e.g. items A which may be the particular items purchased by the customer via sales listing interface package such items as shipment A and ship such shipment to the customer.

In the illustrated embodiment of the processing of payment for a purchased order of one or more items e.g. receiving and verifying payment provided by the customer may be performed by the sales listing provider system. However in various embodiments as illustrated with respect to the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to communicate with a payment system e.g. payment service provider system separate from the sales listing provider system. In various embodiments the payment service provider may be a commercial entity other than the illustrated fulfillment services provider. Similarly the payment service provider may also be a commercial entity other than the illustrated sales listing provider. However in some embodiments the sales listing provider and the payment service provider may be of the same commercial entity. For instance payment service provider system and sales listing provider system may in some embodiments be provided by a single commercial entity separate from or different than the fulfillment services provider .

In the illustrated embodiment of the customer may via customer system browse or purchase items in a similar manner as described above with respect to . For instance the customer may place an order for one or more items e.g. items of inventory via sales listing interface . However in this embodiment the processing and verification of payment for such order e.g. obtaining payment method from customer verifying credit accounts verifying bank account and routing numbers transferring funds from the customer account to an account of the payment service provider and or sales listing provider etc. may be performed by payment service provider system . For instance in response to the customer placing an order for one or more items sales listing provider system may provide payment service provider system with a purchase notification that indicates the illustrated customer has placed an order for one or more particular items. Such notification may include a total amount of funds owed by the customer for payment of the order. To complete payment for the order the customer may initiate a communication session between customer system and payment management interface . Alternatively payment service provider system may e.g. send an invoice or other notification to the customer e.g. an electronic mail invoice indicating an amount due in order to initiate a communication session between the customer and the payment service provider. In either case payment management interface may be configured to receive payment information e.g. account numbers for credit bank or other financial accounts with which payment for the ordered items may be made as well as user authentication authorization information e.g. usernames passwords personal identification numbers etc. from customer system .

In some embodiments the customer may have a payment account established with the payment services provider. Such account may enable the customer to provide via customer system a username and password e.g. an email address and alphanumeric code respectively or other authentication authorization information associated with the customer. Payment service provider system may be configured to verify the correctness of the username and password or other authentication authorization information with respect to records of payment service provider system . If such information is correct the payment system may be configured to retrieve previously stored financial information e.g. identifiers and authorization information for credit accounts bank accounts etc. with which the customer may pay for the order.

In various embodiments payment management interface may be accessible to customer system via a network such as the Internet. For example customer system may be equipped with a web browser and payment management interface may be configured to provide e.g. via a web server one or more web pages to such web browser. For instance the illustrated customer may utilize customer system to access an online payment account provided by payment management interface . For example such account may enable a customer to view outstanding orders such as orders for one or more items purchased via sales listing provider system . In such an embodiment the customer may authorize payment for one or more of the outstanding orders via the online payment account.

After successfully processing the payment for the order e.g. successfully debiting a customer account an amount due for the particular order the payment service provider may provide a payment confirmation notification which indicates that the customer has paid for the item s purchased via the sales listing provider system to the fulfillment services provider via management interface B. Such notification may include various information including but not limited to an order identifier that uniquely identifies an order placed by a customer via the sales listing provider system a purchase price for the order a customer identifier that uniquely identifies the customer and or a sales listing identifier that uniquely identifies a sales listing.

Subsequent to receiving the payment confirmation notification from payment management interface fulfillment coordination service may be configured to query the sales listing provider system for additional information with respect to the order. For example the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to query order management interface via management interface B. For instance if the payment confirmation notification includes an order identifier that identifies the order the fulfillment coordination service may query the sales listing provider system for additional information including but not limited to information indicating the specific items of the order quantities of such items a ship to or destination address for the items e.g. the location to which the items are to be shipped and or shipping preferences as described above. In various embodiments management interface B may be configured pull such additional information via order management interface . Alternatively order management interface may be configured to push information to management interface B. As demonstrated by the illustrated embodiment fulfillment coordination service may be configured to generate an order fulfillment request based on the payment confirmation notification and or such additional information retrieved from the sales listing provider system. Such order fulfillment request may be generated in a manner similar to the manner described above with respect to . Similarly inventory management system may e.g. in response to the order fulfillment request provide shipment information to item handling facility in a manner similar to the manner described above with respect to . Subsequent to receiving the shipment information the item handling facility may prepare shipment B including the purchased items e.g. items B and shipment B to the customer in a manner similar to the manner described above with respect to .

In one particular embodiment the merchant not illustrated in for clarity may create one or more sales listings via fulfillment coordination service as described above in regard to . Such sales listings may include auctions configured to enable one or more customers to bid on item s of the auction. In some cases such auctions may be time dependent. That is at a particular time the auction may end and the highest bidder e.g. a customer that places a bid at that time may win the items of the auction. In some embodiments a bid which typically includes a price may be a contractual obligation to pay for the items of the auction at such price e.g. if the customer wins the auction . When a merchant accesses the fulfillment coordination service via merchant interface A the merchant may select one or more items from inventory e.g. ones of items of inventory of the fulfillment services provider. As described above such items may be items for which a. the merchant is the seller of record and b. the fulfillment services provider provides fulfillment services. As described above the fulfillment services provider may offer such items for sale via sales interface .

For each of the selected items the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to create an auction which may be one type of sales listing based on item description information such as item description information of database . Note that the descriptions of auctions provided herein may also in various embodiments apply to sales listings in general. Such item description information may include keywords associated with various items text based descriptions of various items e.g. a description of an item s features or a description of an item s physical appearance prices for various items dimensions of various items weights for various items and or images and or video or other multimedia of various items. In various embodiments the item description information may have been obtained by the inventory management system from e.g. item manufactures. In other cases such item description information may be generated by the fulfillment services provider. For example images of items may be captured by the fulfillment services provider and added to database . The fulfillment coordination service may be configured to create the auctions from and or based on such item description information. For example the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to generate auctions that include item descriptions that are automatically generated e.g. by the fulfillment coordination service from the item description information of database . Note that in various embodiments this same information may be used by the inventory management system to create sales listings for the same items for which auctions are generated offered to customers via sales listing interface . In this way fulfillment coordination service may leverage e.g. utilize the data of database which may also be used to generate sales listings of sales listings interface in order to create sales listings that will be hosted by another commercial entity e.g. the illustrated sales listing provider .

In some embodiments the generation of auctions may be automatic. For instance the fulfillment coordination service may generate an auction without input from the merchant. However in various embodiments auctions generated may be based on and or may include information provided by the merchant. For instance the merchant may provide to the fulfillment coordination service information including but not limited to an auction start time auction end time initial start price of the auction e.g. the minimum monetary amount that the first bidder must bid the size of bid increments e.g. the monetary amount by which a particular bid must exceed a previous bid and or the auction type e.g. traditional Dutch Chinese fixed price .

In various embodiments the fulfillment coordination service may store a mapping of generated auctions to items within inventory . For instance auctions may be identified by an auction identifier auction ID and items in inventory may be identified by an item identifier item ID . In this example the fulfillment coordination service may generate and or store a mapping of auction IDs to corresponding item IDs. Such mapping may be stored in the sale management component or another system of the fulfillment services provider e.g. database and utilized in a manner described in more detail below with respect to order fulfillment requests.

The auctions generated by the fulfillment coordination service may be generated in a manner similar to the manner described above with respect to . That is in some embodiments the auctions may be generated e.g. one or more generated web pages representing an auction and provided to the sales listing provider system e.g. via management interface B and sales listing interface . Alternatively the fulfillment coordination service may send one or more auction generation commands to the sales listing interface of the sales listing provider system in order to generate an auction. In either case the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to generate auctions on sales listing provider system . Such auctions may be accessible to the illustrated customer via sales listing interface . For instance the customer could search e.g. via keyword for one or more auctions pertaining to a particular item or type of item.

After a customer wins an auction e.g. by being the highest bidder for the auction the customer may participate in a payment process similar to the payment process described above. In one embodiment the customer may begin the payment process by accessing a network address within the auction e.g. a hyperlink that directs the customer to payment management interface . The customer may enter payment details and pay for the items of the auction as described above. Once the customer has paid for the auction payment service provider system may send a payment confirmation notification to the fulfillment coordination service. Such payment confirmation notification may include but is not limited to a payment status e.g. payment complete a merchant identifier e.g. the merchant s email address a transaction identifier transaction ID and the auction ID.

The fulfillment coordination service may be configured to utilize the payment confirmation notification to determine the items of the auction. In one embodiment the payment confirmation notification may specify the items won by the customer. Alternatively the payment confirmation notification may instead of specifying the items won by the customer specify the auction ID. Accordingly in some embodiments the fulfillment coordination service may query sales listing provider system with the auction ID in order to determine the items won by the customer. In this cases the sales listing provider system may receive the query lookup the respective auction or a record of the auction by the auction ID and provide the fulfillment coordination service with a message specifying the items of the auction. In some cases the fulfillment coordination service may access the mapping of auction IDs to corresponding item IDs described above in order to determine the items won by the customer. Once fulfillment coordination service determines the items won by the customer the fulfillment coordination service may generate an order fulfillment request the inventory management system may generate corresponding shipping information and the item handling facility may ship the shipment including the items won via auction to the customer as described above.

In various embodiments the fulfillment coordination service described herein may be configured to verify the accuracy of a generated auction over the course of the auction s life. For instance for a particular item s auction the fulfillment coordination service may track and analyze the state of the auction at various intervals to ensure that the auction reflects true and accurate details for the particular item. For instance the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to compare item description information from the auction listing to corresponding item description information of database . For instance if a merchant were to modify an auction after the auction is generated by the fulfillment coordination service the fulfillment coordination service may verify the accuracy of such modifications e.g. whether the modification describes the actual item up for auction with respect to item description information of database . In this way the fulfillment coordination service may in various embodiments prevent merchants from misrepresenting items to be fulfilled by the fulfillment services provider.

In some embodiments the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to communicate with additional service providers configured to provide services for items fulfilled by the fulfillment services provider. For instance in one embodiment a separate customer service provider may be employed to provide customer service for one or more items that are fulfilled by the fulfillment services provider. For instance in addition to an order fulfillment request for one or more particular items the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to generate a customer service request and provide such request to a computer system of a customer service provider. Accordingly the customer service provider may for each item specified by the customer service request perform a variety of services including but not limited to providing tracking services e.g. tracking the shipped items in transit to ensure proper delivery fielding customer calls regarding such items and or managing returns exchanges for such items.

As illustrated by in various embodiments the fulfillment coordination service may be configured to communicate with multiple fulfillment service providers and determine which of such fulfillment service providers is most suitable for fulfilling a particular order. In the illustrated embodiment in addition to having items registered and managed by a single fulfillment services provider the merchant may also have additional items registered and managed by an additional fulfillment services provider. The operation of the fulfillment coordination service of may be substantially similar to the operation described above with respect to . However in the illustrated embodiment when the fulfillment coordination service generates a fulfillment request it may select or determine to which fulfillment services provider the fulfillment request is to be provided. In various embodiments the fulfillment coordination service may determine that performance of one of the fulfillment services providers is greater than the performance of the other fulfillment service providers with respect to one or more criteria. Such criteria may include but is not limited to e.g. inventory levels of the particular item e.g. if the provider has the items of the fulfillment request in stock and if so how many of such items handling time for the particular item e.g. how long it will take to prepare the items for shipping as well as average shipping times and location of the particular item e.g. the proximity of the provider s inventory to the destination address of the order . In the illustrated embodiment the fulfillment coordination service has determined that performance of the illustrated additional fulfillment services provider is greater than the performance of other fulfillment services providers. Accordingly in the illustrated embodiment the fulfillment coordination service may provide the order fulfillment request to inventory management system for fulfillment by the additional fulfillment services provider which may be a commercial entity that is different than and or separate from the illustrated fulfillment services provider . Note that inventory management system item handling facility and inventory may be configured and or operate in a manner similar to the like labeled items of e.g. inventory management system item handling facility and inventory respectively .

Various methods may be employed by the fulfillment services provider and or the fulfillment coordination service described herein. Examples of such methods are illustrated by . illustrates the generation of sales listings and order fulfillment requests according to some embodiments. As illustrated by step the method may include providing one or more interfaces including one or more of a merchant interface e.g. interface A a sales listing provider interface e.g. interface B a fulfillment services provider interface e.g. interface D a payment services provider interface e.g. interface C . In some embodiments the method may also include providing other interfaces e.g. interfaces E . As described above the interfaces provided may be accessible via various computer networks including LANs WANs or combinations thereof. Additionally such interface may in various embodiments be implemented via web service interfaces or APIs.

The method may also include receiving data from the merchant or a computer system controlled by the merchant via the merchant interface e.g. step . Such data may indicate one or more items of the merchant s inventory for which sales listing are to be generated. For instance as described above with respect to a merchant via merchant system may provide data to interface of fulfillment coordination service . For example such data may indicate one or more items of the merchant inventory such as items of inventory for which sales listings should be generated. As illustrated by step the method may further include generation sales listings for each of the items. For instance such sales listing may be product web pages or auction based listings as described in more detail above.

In various embodiments the method may include providing such sales listings to various sales listing providers. As described above with respect to the sales listing provider may enable one or more customer to purchase corresponding items through the sales listings. For instance the sales listing provider may control a web server that hosts the generated sales listings such that the sales listing are accessible by one or more customers e.g. accessible over the internet . Accordingly the method may also include e.g. step receiving an indication that one or more items have been purchased via the sales listings. For instance a customer may have purchases an item from a product web page or alternatively won an auction based listing for the item.

As illustrated by step the method may include generating an order fulfillment request specifying the particular items sold to the customer such as the order fulfillment request described above with respect to . For instance the order fulfillment request may specify the item s e.g. items of inventory to be fulfilled e.g. located handled packaged and or shipped to the purchasing customer as well as shipping information e.g. preferences indicating normal or expedited shipping and or selection of a shipping carrier etc. a ship to address e.g. the address to which the item s are to be shipped and or additional information e.g. coupon or discount codes shipping discounts gift wrapping options etc. . Note that while such element is referred to as a request the order fulfillment request may in some embodiments actually comprise one or more commands with respect to the fulfillment of an order of one or more items e.g. a command to fulfill the order . As illustrated by step the method may also include providing the order fulfillment request to a fulfillment service provider or computer system controlled by the fulfillment services provider . Such step may include providing the order fulfillment request to the fulfillment service provider via the service provider interface such as the service provider interface provided by the fulfillment coordination service described herein. In various embodiments the fulfillment service provider may fulfill the order e.g. package and ship the items to the purchasing customer in response to receiving the order fulfillment request such as described above with respect to .

As illustrated by another method that may be implemented by the fulfillment coordination service includes providing one or more respective sales listings step . For instance as described above sales listing interface may provide one or more respective sales listings for various items that may be sold to customers. As illustrated by item step the method may also include providing a database of item description information for each of the items. Such item description information may include keywords associated with various items text based descriptions of various items e.g. a description of an item s features or a description of an item s physical appearance prices for various items dimensions of various items weights for various items and or images and or video or other multimedia of various items. In various embodiments the method may include obtaining the item description information from e.g. item manufactures. As illustrated by step the method may also include receiving from a merchant information that specifies a particular item s of the one or more items. For instance the method may include receiving an indication of items for which additional sales listings e.g. an auction should be generated as described above in regard to . As illustrated by step the method may also include generating based on item description information from the database another sales listing for the particular item on a computer system of a sales listing provider such that the particular item may be purchased via the other sales listing and at least one of the respective sales listings. In this way a commercial entity performing the method of may in some embodiments offer the particular item for sale via a sales listing and generate another sales listing for the item on a computer system of a different commercial entity. As described above this may increase the exposure of the item to potential customers and in some cases increase the chance that such item will be sold.

As illustrated by step the method of may include subsequent to a customer placing an order for the particular item via the other sales listing receiving from a payment system of a payment service provider a notification that indicates a customer has paid for the particular item. Such notification may include various information including but not limited to an order identifier that uniquely identifies an order placed by a customer via the sales listing provider system a purchase price for the order a customer identifier that uniquely identifies the customer and or a sales listing identifier that uniquely identifies a sales listing. Such payment confirmation notification may also include but is not limited to a payment status e.g. payment complete a merchant identifier e.g. the merchant s email address a transaction ID and the auction ID. One example of receiving such a notification is demonstrated by the fulfillment coordination service receiving a payment confirmation notification as illustrated by . As illustrated by step the method may also include in response to the notification querying the computer system of the sales listing provider for additional information with respect to the order. Such additional information may include but is not limited to information indicating the specific items of the order quantities of such items a ship to or destination address for the items e.g. the location to which the items are to be shipped and or shipping preferences as described above. As illustrated by step the method may include generating an order fulfillment request based on the additional information. An example of generating such an order fulfillment request includes the fulfillment coordination service of generating an order fulfillment request before providing such request to the inventory management system.

As described above a merchant may select one or more items for which sales listing are to be generated. illustrates an inventory selection display e.g. inventory selection display B . Inventory selection display B may be one example of the type of user interface generated by the fulfillment coordination service described herein. For instance fulfillment coordination service may generate and provide display B to a merchant to enable the merchant to view and select inventory. For instance inventory items A N may represent inventory items that the merchant has registered with a fulfillment services provider e.g. such as inventory of FIG. 1 . The merchant may select inventory items e.g. inventory items A and C and the fulfillment coordination service may generate sales listings including in some cases auctions for such inventory items. The merchant may select control to submit their selections to the fulfillment coordination service described herein.

As described above the generation of some sales listings may be automatic. For instance the generation of some sales listings may not require a merchant to supply information to the fulfillment coordination service. However in some cases the merchant may desire add additional or supplementary information to the sales listings generated by the fulfillment coordination service. illustrates a display e.g. display C for enabling a merchant to view and or modify the content of a sales listing before such sales listing is available to customers. For instance the sales listing generation display may include generated content and merchant supplied content . Note that in some embodiments it is not required for the merchant to supply content . Generated content may include sales listing content generated by the fulfillment coordination service. For instance the fulfillment coordination service may generate generated content based on item description information from e.g. database . For example generated content may be a text based item description and one or more item images. In some embodiments generated content may be editable by the merchant. For instance the merchant may desire to add information about the condition of the item being sold. Merchant supplied content may include content supplied by the merchant such as a sales listing title a category an auction type e.g. if the sales listings is an auction a price or starting price e.g. for auctions quantity of items and duration e.g. for auctions . Other content may be added at the merchant s discretion. The merchant may preview submit or cancel the sales listing via controls .

Various embodiments of a system and method for managing sales and fulfillment services as described herein may be executed on one or more computer systems which may interact with various other devices. One such computer system is computer system illustrated by . Computer system may be capable of implementing a fulfillment coordination service such as fulfillment coordination service . While many of the embodiments described herein refer to the fulfillment coordination service computer system may also be configured to implement the systems of in various embodiments. In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface and one or more input output devices such as cursor control device keyboard and display s . In some embodiments it is contemplated that embodiments may be implemented using a single instance of computer system while in other embodiments multiple such systems or multiple nodes making up computer system may be configured to host different portions or instances of embodiments. For example in one embodiment some elements may be implemented via one or more nodes of computer system that are distinct from those nodes implementing other elements.

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store program instructions and or data accessible by processor . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing a fulfillment coordination service such as fulfillment coordination service described above are shown stored within system memory as fulfillment coordination service . In other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media or on similar media separate from system memory or computer system . Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or CD DVD ROM coupled to computer system via I O interface . Program instructions and data stored via a computer accessible medium may be transmitted by transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals which may be conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces such as input output devices . In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network such as other computer systems e.g. the various computer system of or between nodes of computer system . In various embodiments network interface may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of Ethernet network for example via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

Input output devices may in some embodiments include one or more display terminals keyboards keypads touchpads scanning devices voice or optical recognition devices or any other devices suitable for entering or accessing data by one or more computer systems . Multiple input output devices may be present in computer system or may be distributed on various nodes of computer system . In some embodiments similar input output devices may be separate from computer system and may interact with one or more nodes of computer system through a wired or wireless connection such as over network interface .

As shown in memory may include program instructions configured to implement a fulfillment coordination service as illustrated by fulfillment coordination service . In one embodiment fulfillment coordination service may implement the methods described above such as the methods illustrated by . In other embodiments different elements and data may be included.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer system is merely illustrative and is not intended to limit the scope of embodiments. In particular the computer system and devices may include any combination of hardware or software that can perform the indicated functions including computers network devices Internet appliances PDAs wireless phones pagers etc. Computer system may also be connected to other devices that are not illustrated or instead may operate as a stand alone system. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated components may in some embodiments be combined in fewer components or distributed in additional components. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated components may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that while various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used these items or portions of them may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software components may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computer system via inter computer communication. Some or all of the system components or data structures may also be stored e.g. as instructions or structured data on a computer accessible medium or a portable article to be read by an appropriate drive various examples of which are described above. In some embodiments instructions stored on a computer accessible medium separate from computer system may be transmitted to computer system via transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link. Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Accordingly various embodiments may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. as well as transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as network and or a wireless link.

The methods described herein may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof in different embodiments. In addition the order of the steps of the methods may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc. Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

These various embodiments described herein are meant to be illustrative and not limiting. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are possible. Accordingly plural instances may be provided for components described herein as a single instance. Boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of claims that follow. Finally structures and functionality presented as discrete components in the exemplary configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements may fall within the scope of embodiments as defined in the claims that follow.

