---

title: Travel service aggregator
abstract: The subject matter of this specification can be embodied in, among other things, a system that includes a user interface to receive an electronic status change for an airline flight and an airline reservation system to determine whether at least one ancillary travel service associated with the airline flight should be modified based on the received electronic status change. The system includes a messaging interface to electronically transmit a request to modify the at least one ancillary travel service based on the electronic status change if the determination is made to modify the at least one ancillary travel service. The messaging interface further electronically transmits payment information to the travel service provider for use in crediting or debiting a payment associated with the at least one modified ancillary travel service. The payment information is associated with a customer that reserved the at least one ancillary travel service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07899692&OS=07899692&RS=07899692
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 07899692
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20080305
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 893 056 filed on Mar. 5 2007 and entitled Travel Service Aggregator the contents of which are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference.

Some airline reservation systems have web interfaces or web services that permit a travelers or travel agencies to request seats for travel on airline flights. In building an itinerary for a trip travelers or travel agencies can also request reservations from several other travel provider systems such as car rental agencies and hotels. However in certain circumstances airline flights may be rescheduled or cancelled which can be very inconvenient for travelers not only because the flight was changed but also because other travel services are affected by the changed flight. e.g. the other travel services are unnecessary because a traveler s flight was cancelled .

In general this document describes rescheduling or cancelling travel service ancillary to a rescheduled or cancelled airline flight or other travel conveyance .

In a first general aspect a system is described that includes a user interface to receive an electronic status change for an airline flight and an airline reservation system to determine whether at least one ancillary travel service associated with the airline flight should be modified based on the received electronic status change.

The system includes a messaging interface to electronically transmit a request to modify the at least one ancillary travel service based on the electronic status change if the determination is made to modify the at least one ancillary travel service. The messaging interface further electronically transmits payment information to the travel service provider for use in crediting or debiting a payment associated with the at least one modified ancillary travel service. The payment information is associated with a customer that reserved the at least one ancillary travel service.

In a second general aspect a computer implemented process for managing travel services is described. The process includes receiving at a travel reservation system an electronic status change for a travel conveyance and electronically accessing a digital travel record stored in the travel reservation system. The digital travel record includes a reservation for at least one ancillary travel service associated with the travel conveyance.

The process also includes determining whether the at least one ancillary travel service should be modified based on the electronic status change for the travel conveyance and electronically transmitting from the travel reservation system to a remote travel service provider associated with the at least one ancillary travel service a request to modify the at least one ancillary travel service based on the electronic status change if the determination is made to modify the at least one ancillary travel service.

The process includes electronically transmitting payment information from the travel reservation system to the travel service provider for use in crediting or debiting a payment associated with the at least one modified ancillary travel service. The payment information is associated with a customer that reserved the at least one ancillary travel service.

The systems and techniques described here may provide one or more of the following advantages. First a system can provide a implied payment system for an airline reservation system where payment information is passed to ancillary travel providers for processing. Second rescheduling travel itineraries can be simplified by automatically rescheduling ancillary travel services if an airline flight is cancelled or rescheduled. Third the convenience of initially scheduling a travel itinerary can be increased by permitting an airline reservation system to manage the reservation of additional travel services as well.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In certain implementations a customer which may be a traveler or an intermediary for the traveler such as a travel agent can reserve or purchase a variety of travel services by accessing an airline reservation system which in turn communicates with third parties that offer additional services e.g. hotel rentals car rentals travel insurance etc. . The system can retrieve pricing and availability information from the third parties and transmit reservation and purchase requests for the additional travel services.

Additionally in certain implementations changes in the status of a traveler s flight can trigger communications with third party travel service providers. If a traveler s flight is canceled the reservation module initiates communication with a third party to cancel or modify other travel services that are dependent upon the traveler s flight. For example if a traveler s flight to Honolulu is cancelled due to bad weather the reservation module can initiate a cancellation request for the traveler s hotel reservations in Honolulu.

In the implementation show in the reservation module communicates with the third parties using the messaging interface to access the third parties systems through public application program interfaces APIs over a network such as the Internet. The messaging interface can translate requests such as reservation or cancellation requests into messages that are understood by the third parties systems.

For example if the reservation module requests a cancellation of a car rental from Hertz the messaging interface uses a Hertz API to translate the request from a format used by the reservation module to a format compatible with Hertz s system. So if the command used by the reservation module for cancelling a car rental from Hertz is HertzCarCancel date reservationNum the messaging interface can translate the command into CR reservationNum which may be a command specified by the Hertz API that is used to cancel car rentals.

In some implementations each third party may have a different API used for communication. The messaging interface can translate commands or messages passed from each of the third parties into a format compatible with the reservation module and vis a versa.

The messaging interface can be accessed using user interfaces UIs such as the Supplier Product Configuration UI or the Connector Supplier Configuration UI . The Supplier Product Configuration UI can be used to set constraints on communication with the third parties. In certain implementations agents for the airline can filter which third parties may offer travel services. For example the messaging interface may provide support for communicating with Hertz Avis and Budget Car rental companies however the airline may have contractual obligations that favor Hertz and Avis. Agents for the airline can specify using the Supplier Product Configuration UI that only services from Hertz and Avis are offered.

In other implementations the Supplier Product Configuration UI can be used to specify rules that determine which third parties are permitted to offer services to travelers under specified conditions. For example the messaging interface may only transmit product or service information and or availability information to the reservation module if prices are below a threshold set by the airline. In one particular example the threshold can be set so that travel insurance quotes that exceed 5 of the cost of the currently purchased travel services are not transmitted to the reservation module.

As mentioned above the messaging interface can also be configured using the Connector Supplier Configuration UI . In certain implementations the Connector Supplier Configuration UI permits users to configure add or remove third party APIs. For example the user can add support for Princess Cruise Line cruises using the UI to specify the necessary format or API used by Princess Cruise Line to receive reservation requests price queries cancellation requests etc. In another example an existing third party travel service provider may change the API used to commutate with its system. A user can use the Connector Supplier Configuration UI to modify the existing third party API stored in the messaging interface to reflect the changes implemented by the third party.

Travelers and other users of the reservation module can interface with it in several ways including using a web browsing interface a call center interface an airport UI and a web service interface.

In some implementations the web browsing interface permits travelers to access the reservation module . For example a traveler can request a reservation for an airline flight by accessing the airline s webpage which serves as an interface to the reservation module . In addition to reserving a flight from the airline the travel may be presented with other travel services for purchase. For example if the traveler requests a flight to San Francisco the reservation module may transmit a request to the messaging interface which queries the third parties for complimentary travel services. The messaging interface may receive price quotes from Hertz and Avis car rental companies for car rentals available at the San Francisco International Airport on the date of the reserved flight. These quotes can then be presented to the traveler.

In other implementations an intermediary may access the web browsing interface on behalf of the traveler. For example a travel agent can use the web browsing interface to request reservations and additional travel services for the traveler.

The call center interface can in certain implementations permit a call center system not shown to interface with the reservation system. Travelers may contact the call center to make travel reservations and agents at the call center can access the reservation module for reservations and additional travel services.

In some implementations the airport UI can permit employees of the airport to access the reservation module . For example gate agents can use client computing devices to access the reservation module to check the status of flights change reservations input changes for flight status etc.

The web services interface can in certain implementations be an API that allows a variety of systems to communicate with the reservation system. For example the API may support RSS feeds that are transmitted to a traveler to update the traveler on the status of flights and other travel services associated with the traveler.

In certain implementations the reservation module stores travel information associated with each traveler in a travel record database . For example a traveler s flights car rentals travel insurance and hotel reservations can be recorded in a single travel record associated with the traveler and stored in the database .

The reservation module can also include interfaces to communicate with other systems such as the Supplier Reconciliation Finance Accounting system . This system can access the reservation module and the travel records to track travel purchases for accounting purposes such as tracking services purchased from third parties to ensure the third parties receive the appropriate compensation.

In step a request for an airline reservation is received. For example a traveler may logon to an airline s webpage using the web browsing interface and request a flight reservation from the airline. The web browsing interface can transmit the request to the reservation module.

In step requests for additional travel services can be received. For example the airline s web page may display a screen asking the traveler if she wishes to book additional travel services such as a hotel or car rental reservation in addition to the flight reservation. The traveler may then select the additional travel services in which she is interested and transmit this information to the reservation module.

In step a query is transmitted to the entity responsible for the requested additional travel services. For example if the traveler responds that she is interested in a hotel reservation the reservation module can query a third party hotel system using an appropriate API.

In step details are received from the entity responsible for the requested travel services. For example the hotel system can respond to the query transmitted by the reservation module with information including reservation availability for hotel rooms and pricing.

In step a determination is made whether new or modified requests for travel services are received. For example the travel may request additional travel services such as a car rental or may request additional quotes from different hotels. If additional requests are received the method moves back to step otherwise step can be performed.

In step a travel record is modified to reflect the airline reservation and additional travel services. For example a travel record associated with the traveler requesting the services can be created or modified. The services requested by the traveler can be included in the record along with information associated with the services such as pricing date provider travel restrictions payment information etc. After step the method can end.

In step a notification of a flight cancellation or modification is received. For example an airline employee can use the airport UI to enter information into the reservation module that a flight is cancelled or delayed or reservation module can receive this flight cancellation or modification information from another system . In step a travel record for a traveler associated with the flight is accessed. For example the reservation module can access the travel record database which may store travel records.

In one implementation travel records can be indexed for example based on flight information. When the reservation module receives information that a flight has a change in status e.g. delayed cancelled etc. the reservation module can query the database for records associated with the flight. After locating a travel record associated with the flight the method can execute step .

In optional step a rule set can be accessed to determine a next action. The actions can include cancelling all or a subset of related travel services or rescheduling all or a portion of the travel services based on the modified flight status. For example if a flight is delayed by an hour one rule of the rule set can specify that the associated travel services listed in a travel record should not be cancelled or rescheduled. If on the other hand a flight is delayed by four hours the rule can determine that a car rental should be rescheduled for four hours later but a hotel reservation should remain unchanged.

In optional step an alert requesting a next action can be transmitted to a user. For example instead of accessing the rule set an alert can be transmitted to the user when a flight is cancelled or delayed. The user can then determine whether to reschedule change or cancel any associated travel services. In some implementations the rule set described in step may generate an initial next action. An alert is sent to the user who reviews the initial next action and can approve modified or deny the next action determined by the rule set.

In steps and cancellation and rescheduling requests can be transmitted to the third parties responsible for the additional travel services respectively. Which step is performed may be dependent upon the next action previously determined. For example if the rule set or user previously determined that a hotel reservation should be cancelled step can be performed. If the rule set determined that the hotel reservation should be rescheduled step can be performed.

In certain implementations the reservation module can transmit the requests to the third party travel service providers using the messaging interface and the APIs for the service providers. For example if a travel record associated with a cancelled flight has a hotel reservation at the San Francisco Hilton the reservation module can use the messaging interface to transmit a cancellation request to the Hilton s system using the Hilton API.

Sending rescheduling requests may be accomplished in a similar manner. However in some circumstances the reserved service may not be available at the new desired time. In certain implementations a cancellation request can be transmitted if the travel service is not available at the new time and a request for the same service can be transmitted to a new travel service provider. For example if a luxury car rental from Hertz is not available at the delayed time the system can request the Hertz reservation be cancelled and can request a luxury car rental from another car provider such as Avis.

In some implementations the request for a substitute travel provider can specify that certain constraints such as rental cost car size travel service provider e.g. only certain companies are desired by a traveler or other user payment type e.g. takes American Express credit cards etc. be met. For example the system may specify that the price for renting the new luxury car be at or below the price for the Hertz luxury car rental. The system may query several travel service providers and reschedule if the constraints are met.

In step the travel record can be modified to reflect the cancelled or rescheduled additional travel services and in step a modified travel itinerary can be transmitted to a user. For example the reservation module can transmit the modified itinerary to the traveler using contact information such as an email address stored in the travel record. In another example the information can be transmitted to a travel agent such as a travel agent that requested the services. After optionally transmitting the modified itinerary the method can end.

The memory stores information within the system . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the system . In one implementation the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device.

The input output device provides input output operations for the system . In one implementation the input output device includes a keyboard and or pointing device. In another implementation the input output device includes a display unit for displaying graphical user interfaces.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

Although a few implementations have been described in detail above other modifications are possible. In certain implementations the reservation module can manage a variety of reservation types. For example the reservation module can manage car rental hotel rail e.g. train or cruise reservations instead of airline reservations.

In yet other implementations the reservation module manages several types of travel services. For example the reservation module can manage car rental hotel and airline reservations. In some implementations the system may still have a messaging interface to communicate with service providers for travel service it does not manage such as travel insurers.

In some implementations payments associated with ancillary travel services can be adjusted based on changes to an airline flight s schedule. For example if an airline flight is cancelled the airline reservation system can refund a customer s payment for that flight. Additionally the airline reservation system can transmit payment information to travel providers associated with reserved travel services that are ancillary to the cancelled flight. The travel providers can cancel the ancillary travel services and refund any money previously debited for the services.

In some implementations the payment information passed to the travel providers can include credit card information. The airline reservation system may receive the credit card information during reservation of a seat on an airline flight and or during reservation of travel services that are ancillary to the airline flight such as hotel reservations travel insurance car rentals cruise reservations event or activity reservations etc. .

The airline reservation system may in some implementations transmit the credit card information to the travel service providers if an ancillary travel service is cancelled or rescheduled. In a case where one or more ancillary travel services are cancelled because an airline flight is cancelled or rescheduled each of the travel providers responsible for the ancillary travel services can refund any money previously charged for the ancillary travel services by charging the payments back to the credit card. This may reduce the complexity of a payment system at the reservation system by having the responsible travel providers manage financial issues associated with travel services they provide instead of having the reservation system manage payments for all travel services related to a travel itinerary even if a customer used the reservation system to request all travel services for a travel itinerary .

In another example if the purchased ancillary travel service is travel insurance the airline reservation system can forward payment information to a responsible travel insurer for collecting a claim payment. For example the reservation system can forward bank account information to the travel insurer which can credit the account with a payment for the insured amount.

In some implementations where an airline flight is rescheduled payment information passed to the travel providers can be used to refund a partial amount instead of a full amount for ancillary travel services that are rescheduled instead of cancelled. For example if a flight is rescheduled hotel reservations may also have to be rescheduled so that they coincide with the new flight. If the newly rescheduled hotel reservations are at a cheaper rate the difference can be credited by the appropriate travel provider to an account indicated in the payment information.

In another implementation the original travel provider may not be able to fulfill the rescheduled travel service. In this case the original travel provider can cancel the service refund any charges and the reservation system can request that another travel provider fulfill the request for the rescheduled travel service. The new travel provider can then use the payment information to charge the customer for the reserved travel service.

On the other hand if the rescheduled travel service is more expensive the payment information passed to the travel provider can be used to debit the extra amount for the rescheduled travel service. In some implementations the customer can specify an extra amount the customer is willing to pay if his or her travel itinerary requires rescheduling. The airline reservation system can use this specified threshold to determine whether to pass payment information to the travel providers for debiting purposes.

For example at the time of reservation the customer may specify that he or she is willing to pay an extra 100 for rescheduled hotel reservations and an extra 25 for rescheduled car reservations. If a flight is rescheduled the airline reservation system can query the hotel and car agency systems responsible for providing the hotel and car reservations. If the hotel and car agency systems respond with quotes indicating that the cost of the rescheduled travel services will not exceed the 100 or 25 thresholds then the airline reservation system can transmit the payment information and can request that the hotel and car agency systems reschedule the travel services and charge the extra amount.

In another implementation the airline reservation system can initiate an authorization request to a customer inquiring whether the customer approves an extra amount required to reschedule any ancillary travel services. For example if rescheduled ancillary travel services cost more the airline reservation system can transmit an email to the customer listing the increased amount and requesting authorization to reschedule the services. The email may include HTML that displays an accept button that when clicked initiates a response that authorizes the airline reservation system to pass payment information to the travel providers for debiting the extra amounted quoted for rescheduling the travel services.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

