---

title: Intelligent client: multiple channel switching over a digital broadcast network
abstract: A digital broadcast network is disclosed that can divide an application into multiple channels to be distributed to receiving devices. A receiving device can selectively accept one or more of the multiple channels depending on various criteria including selection parameters and device capability. The selective choice of at least a subset of the application can provide an acceptable depth and delivery of data to improve the user experience. Text and standard data experiences can be combined with an audio counterpart, with pre-loaded client-side media files, and/or with pre-loaded client-side media files and a live audio stream, which can enrich a user experience.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09462020&OS=09462020&RS=09462020
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09462020
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080116
---
The following description relates generally to content distribution systems and more particularly to selective distribution and selective presentation of content.

A digital broadcast network is a one way delivery method to client side software located on a user device. Datacast services provide information over a digital broadcast network to be used by the client side software. Traditional digital broadcast networks can include bandwidth limitations that can affect the depth and sophistication of a user experience offered by many datacast services. Some attempts at data applications over digital broadcast networks assumed a single channel to be associated with a single datacast service.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate the scope of such embodiments. Its purpose is to present some concepts of the described embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The delivery method of the data is similar to that used by traditional linear services such as video and audio signals. Subsequently all information is provided in a first to last stream that materially influences the timeliness of the user experience. As the experiences become more complicated the amount of data to be broadcast increases and thus the first to last method slows delivery and materially affects the quality and depth of the user experience offered by the datacast service. Additionally since a single channel cannot efficiently deliver mass amounts of data over a digital broadcast network the application must display all its data without the user s ability to request specific information.

A data only experience that broadcasts only text and numbers provides a rich experience for the user yet is limited in its very nature. This system requires the user to be actively viewing the device in order to have any experience with the services. A text only and or broadcast only datacast system severely limits the types of experiences that can be obtained over a digital broadcast network.

Another problem associated with the depth and sophistication of the user experience is that during platform launch there is no return path included that would allow the client software to provide feedback to the broadcaster. Subsequently collecting user activity can be extremely difficult and therefore cannot be achieved in a timely enough manner to facilitate immediate use. There are two results of this inability to enter a feedback loop with users. The first is the difficulty of creating any type of community based upon shared experience between consumers. Although consumers will share experiences the challenge is how to highlight their awareness in order to build a sense of community. The second effect is that the lack of feedback precludes personalizing the experience for users.

In accordance with one or more embodiments and corresponding disclosure thereof various aspects are described in connection with providing client software functionality that allows for intelligently tuning to separate broadcast channels in order to assimilate data efficiently to provide an acceptable depth and delivery of the user experience. In another aspect provided is the concentration and personalization of the consumer s experience as well as providing an entry point for encouraging the consumer to feel a part of a larger community. In accordance with some aspects text and standard data experiences can be combined with an audio counterpart with pre loaded client side media files and or with pre loaded client side media files and a live audio stream which can enrich the user experience.

According to an aspect is a method for rendering content. The method includes identifying a plurality of channels that include respective sets of content. A subset of the channels can be aggregated to render a set of aggregated or parsed content. Identifying the channels can include detecting a tag associated with each of the plurality of channels. The tag can include information relating to a content of each of the plurality of channels.

In accordance with another aspect is a device for rendering content. The device includes a computer platform having a memory and a processor and a user interface in communication with the computer platform. The memory can include a selection parameter. Also included is a channel identifier that identifies a plurality of channels that include respective sets of content. An aggregation component is also provided that aggregates a subset of the plurality of channels to render a set of aggregated or parsed content.

Still another aspect relates to an apparatus for selectively rendering at least a subset of content. The apparatus includes a means for identifying a plurality of channels that include respective sets of content and a means for aggregating a subset of the channels to render a set of aggregated or parsed content. The means for identifying a plurality of channels can further detect a tag associated with each of the plurality of channels. The tag can include information relating to a content of each of the plurality of channels.

In a related aspect is a machine readable medium having stored thereon machine executable instructions for identifying a plurality of channels that include respective sets of content. Each of the plurality of channels can be associated with an identifier. The machine executable instructions are also for aggregating a subset of the channels to render a set of aggregated or parsed content.

In a wireless communication system another aspect relates to an apparatus that includes a processor. The processor is configured to identify a plurality of channels that include respective sets of content and accept at least a subset of the channels based on the identifier and at least one of a selection parameter a location available resources or combinations thereof. The processor can also be configured to aggregate the subset of channels to render a set of aggregated or parsed content.

In a related aspect is a method for providing content. The method includes parsing a set of data associated with a single user application into multiple streams. The method can further include tagging the respective streams with information to identify content categories within each stream. Each of the multiple streams can be transmitted at substantially the same time to one or more receiving devices.

Another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus that includes a computer platform having a memory and a processor. The memory can store information related to decisions made by the processor. The apparatus also includes a parser that divides an application into multiple channels and a labeler that tags each channel with information to identify content within each channel.

In accordance with another aspect is an apparatus for selectively providing multiple streams of content. The apparatus includes a means for parsing a set of data into multiple streams and a means for tagging the respective streams with information to identify content within each stream. Also included can be a means for transmitting each of the multiple streams at substantially the same time or shifting the transmission timing of at least one stream based on a transmission speed.

Still another aspect relates to a machine readable medium having stored thereon machine executable instructions for dividing an application into multiple channels and tagging each channel with information to identify content within each channel. The instructions can further comprise sending each of the multiple channels at substantially the same time.

In a wireless communication system another aspect relates to an apparatus that includes a processor. The processor can be configured to parse a set of data into multiple streams and tag the respective streams with information to identify content within each stream. The processor can further be configured to transmit each of the multiple streams at substantially the same time to or at different times.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects and are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the embodiments may be employed. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings and the disclosed embodiments are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspects s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing these embodiments.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal .

Furthermore various embodiments are described herein in connection with a wireless terminal. A wireless terminal can also be called a system subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal wireless communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A wireless terminal may be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability computing device or other processing device connected to a wireless modem. Moreover various embodiments are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal s and may also be referred to as an access point Node B or some other terminology.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules and or may not include all of the devices components modules discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

Referring to illustrated is a system that enables selective downloading and selective presentation of content on one or more wireless devices . System may include one or more content providers operable to provide one more pieces of content to distribution system such as through a first network . Distribution system is operable to deliver one or more streams of content along with one or more content metadata associated with each stream of content to the one or more wireless devices . Such content can be delivered as individual streams of data wherein a complete content set can include multiple streams of data e.g. a single application is divided into multiple streams . For example distribution system may include a transmitter and or the second network wherein transmitter is operable to generate a one to many transmission of content and or content metadata for delivery to one or more wireless devices through second network . In accordance with one aspect the content and or content metadata can be divided or partioned into multiple streams or multiple channels and one or more of the channels can be selectively received and combined if more than one is selected for presentation at a respective wireless device .

Upon accessing transmission each wireless device is operable to execute a channel selector which can be configured to determine selected ones of the one or more channels of content in transmission to download to wireless device based on one or more selection parameters within a selection database . Selection parameters may include but are not limited to data such as one or more content filters e.g. relevant information contained in a stream one or more data representing user information e.g. preferences state time of day day of week and or one or more data representing device information e.g. capabilities limitations display size audio functionality . Selection parameters can be unique to and or customized for each respective wireless device and or each respective user of each wireless device . As such in some aspects each wireless device may download a different set of one or more streams of content within the same transmission . Thus in some aspects one or more selection parameters allow channel selector to download one or more selected streams of content of interest to a respective user of the respective wireless device based on a match between one or more of the respective content metadata and one or more of the selection parameters .

Further for example in aspects where selected content comprises a real time or live content channel selector may forward selected content to a media module for presentation through an output device . In other aspects for example where selected content comprises a non real time content channel selector may forward selected content to be cached or saved in a content storage . In the non real time case media module is operable to access content storage at any time to retrieve and cause a presentation through output device of the selected content .

Output device in combination with media module is operable to generate selected content as a program or presentation for consumption by a user of wireless device . Each program or presentation may comprise a combination of one or more streams of selected content labeled Stream through Stream where N is an integer or might comprise a single stream of content. The streams of content can be associated with one more of the content metadata corresponding to each stream . Further for example in some aspects one or more streams of a respective program or presentation may include one or more associated stream indicator each of which define a corresponding stream of content. Thus each stream can provide a reference or association to a corresponding stream e.g. an audio stream identifies its corresponding video stream . Providing reference information for a corresponding stream allows channel selector to choose streams that are appropriate and which can enrich the user experience.

For example three types of information A B and C are to be transmitted for consumption on a user device . Each information type can be associated with its own data stream such that a first stream of content can include information A a second stream of content includes information B a third stream of content includes information C and so forth. A user might only want to be presented with information C although the user can receive any or all of the information A B and C . Channel selector can distinguish among the different streams based on information included in or associated with a particular stream e.g. tag indicator metadata and only the desired stream C in this example can be selectively presented. Sending different streams for each type of information allows the user though a respective user device to selectively receive only the desired content. In the above example if the information A B and C was sent as a single first to last stream a user would have to wait until information A and information B is complete before receiving the desired information C . Thus the disclosed aspects allow for a richer user experience that can be tailored to the needs or interests of each user. Likewise only presenting data of relevance to the user can conserve resources such as saving battery power. If the user decides that information A and or B is now desired the newly selected information can be presented to the user since each stream is transmitted individually and at substantially the same time. However the user device is only tuning in and receiving the data that the user desires e.g. based on selection parameters .

Thus system provides each wireless device the ability to independently choose and combine one or more streams of selected content from the one to many transmission of a multitude of content based on independently configured content caching functionality associated with each wireless device . Further system can provide each wireless device the ability to independently choose and combine one or more streams of content from among its respective set of one or more streams of selected content for inclusion with another stream of selected content based on independently configured content insertion functionality associated with each wireless device .

In accordance with some aspects first network and second network provide respective communication links between the various components and or entities of system . In some aspects first network and second network may comprise independent networks while in other aspects they may comprise inter related networks. Generally first network and second network each may comprise any one or any combination of one or more data networks and or one or more communications networks. For example in some aspects first network may comprise a public communications network such as the Internet and second network may comprise a subscription based one to many network such as a multicast network such as a Forward Link Only FLO network including the MediaFLO System available from QUALCOMM Incorporated of San Diego Calif. In other aspects first network and second network may include one or a combination of other networks such as a digital video broadcasting DVB network such as DVB S for satellite DVB C for cable DVB T for terrestrial television DVB H for terrestrial television for handhelds a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a Bluetooth technology network a ZigBee protocol network an ultra wide band UWB protocol network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.11 network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network and land mobile radio network.

Further examples of telephone networks that may be included in some aspects of first network and or second network include one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS advanced mobile phone service AMPS time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA global system for mobile communications GSM single carrier 1X radio transmission technology RTT evolution data only EV DO technology general packet radio service GPRS enhanced data GSM environment EDGE high speed downlink data packet access HSPDA analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

Referring to illustrated is a schematic diagram of an aspect of the content of . Content as used herein may comprise but is not limited to at least one of video audio multimedia content real time content non real time content also referred to as clips scripts programs or any other type of data or object operable to be distributed to and executed or presented by wireless device . For example content may include one or any combination of subscribed to programming ad hoc and or on demand received programming and or advertising or any other form of content added to inserted within and or presented simultaneously with or in place of other content. Additionally for example content may comprise but is not limited to a television show a video a movie a song interactive data such as World Wide Web pages and links etc. Further content may comprise a unique content identifier ID such as one or any combination of a letter a number a name a file name a file path etc. associated with the respective piece of content.

Additionally at least one of the multitude of content is associated with one or more content metadata . For instance one or more of the content suppliers associated with a respective one of the multitude of content may define the respective content metadata and associate the content metadata with the respective content. As used herein the term content supplier may include one or any combination of a content provider such as content provider a content retailer a billing and customer service provider and a media distributor such as distribution system . Content metadata comprises any data that describes and or is associated with each respective piece of content . For example content metadata may comprise but is not limited to one or any combination of content ID and one or more content attributes such as a category a name a content length a content type associated stream indicator a code an identifier a theme a genre an intended audience and or market a script a content filter identifier a cuing protocol parameter a related audience and or market and or any metadata relating to the corresponding content. One or more content metadata may be separate from attached to or embedded within the respective content . In some aspects for example when content and content metadata are separate they each may comprise or point to the same content ID for example to enable the respective content metadata to be related to the respective content.

Referring to illustrated is a schematic diagram of an aspect of the transmission of a multitude of streams of the multitude of content of . Transmission may provide multiple streams or channels of content to each wireless device for consumption by a respective end user. In some aspects for example each transmission may comprise a one to many transmission in a Forward Link Only FLO system such as the MediaFLO system available from QUALCOMM Incorporated of San Diego Calif. In such a system transmission comprises a flow or a logical stream within a multiplex which is a set of flows available in a given geographical area. Further each stream carried by transmission may comprise one or some combination of the plurality of content . Thus transmission is able to deliver an entire content utilizing multiple streams at substantially the same time to allow a recipient of the multiple streams to combine one or more of the streams for rendering on a user device.

Referring to illustrated is a schematic diagram of an aspect of components including an advertiser of the system of . In some aspects because the presentation of each stream carried by transmission may attract a large number of end users or consumers system may further include one or more advertisers in communication with distribution system . Advertiser comprises an entity desiring to present one more pieces of content within a stream in the form of one or more advertisements to selected end users . For example in this aspect a first stream may comprise but is not limited to a video feed and a second stream can comprise an audio stream and a third stream may comprise but is not limited to an advertisement. One or more of the streams can be presented to the end user such as the third stream comprising the advertisement. Although the other streams and can be received by the end user such streams can be selectively ignored or disregarded if the streams do not conform to parameters associated with streams that should be relayed to the end user .

It should be noted that although wireless devices may be illustrated as cellular telephones any number and combination of types of wireless devices may be included in system of . For example wireless device may include but is not limited to a cellular telephone a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a laptop computer a two way pager a portable gaming device a portable music device or any type of computerized wireless device. The disclosed aspects can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Computer platform is operable to transmit data across a network such as first network and or second network and is operable to receive and execute routines and applications and optionally display data generated within wireless device or received from any network device or other computer device connected to the network or connected to wireless device . Computer platform may be embodied in for example one or any combination of hardware firmware software data and executable instructions.

Memory may comprise one or any combination of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards flash memory cells an electronic file system and any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more of any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk including removable memory mechanisms.

Further processor may be one or more of an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a chipset a processor a logic circuit and any other data processing device. In some aspects processor or other processor such as an ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs stored in memory of wireless device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by QUALCOMM Incorporated of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Additionally processor may include various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof which enable the functionality of wireless device and the operability of wireless device on network of . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with distribution system and or other networked devices. In aspects in which the wireless device is defined as a cellular telephone for example processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer layer layer main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services vocoder messaging graphics USB multimedia etc. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform that enable the functionality described herein. For example processing subsystems may include any subsystem components that receive data reads and data writes from API on behalf of channel selector .

Further communications module may be embodied in hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof and is operable to enable communications among the various components of wireless device as well as between wireless device and first network and or second network . For example in cellular telephone aspects communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof including transmit and receive chain components for establishing a wireless communication connection.

Further for example communication module is operable to receive the plurality of content and the associated respective one or more content metadata if any from distribution system and forward them to channel selector or provide channel selector with access to them. Similarly for example communication module is operable to receive the one or more selection parameters and either forward them to channel selector or provide channel selector with access to them. Subsequently for example communications module is operable to forward selected content respectively to other device components for further processing.

Additionally one or more input devices for generating inputs into wireless device and one or more output devices for generating information for consumption by the user of the wireless device are provided. For example input device may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a navigation mechanism a mouse a touch screen display a microphone in association with a voice recognition module etc. In certain aspects input device provides an interface for receiving user input such as to activate or interact with an application or module on the wireless device. Further for example output device may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. Further user interface may comprise one or any combination of input devices and or output devices .

With reference now to illustrated is a block diagram of an example system for providing content over multiple channels. The amount of data especially digital data transmitted to and among wireless devices has increased exponentially over time. As such a single channel is no longer adequate to properly convey or transmit all the data. Thus system can provide custom data in a one way broadcast system. Additionally in some circumstances a user does not want to receive all the data but only a subset thereof. System can facilitate parsing the data into multiple streams or channels and transmitting the data in such a manner that one or more of the streams of data can be selectively combined and rendered on a user device providing other saving benefits.

In further detail system includes a transmitter similar to distribution system of and a receiver similar to device of . Transmitter can be configured to broadcast content and associated content metadata if any to receiver . Transmitter can be configured to divide the content and associated content metadata into multiple streams or channels labeled Streamthrough Stream where N is an integer and referred to collectively as multiple streams . The multiple streams are subsets of data for a single application that is broken up into individual streams which can be selectively combined at a receiving device. The multiple streams can be transmitted at substantially the same time to receiver . In accordance with some aspects transmitter can also send multiple streams that relate to different applications e.g. a first set of streams relate to a first application a second set of streams relate to a second application and so forth .

Receiver can include a channel selector that can be configured to selectively accept and combine one or more of the multiple streams to be rendered on a user device. In accordance with some aspects receiver can take data from all of the streams that are received in parallel. Selectively accepting combining and rendering at least a subset of the multiple streams can enhance a user experience such as by accepting and rendering only information desired by the user e.g. information not desired is not one of the streams of data selected obtaining and rendering selected data more quickly receiving and presenting advertisements of interest to a user and so forth.

In order to facilitate dividing information into different channels or streams transmitter can include a parser that can be configured to divide a set of data or content into multiple streams or channels . The content can be divided into streams corresponding to the type of content e.g. video audio high definition video text and so on and or the content information e.g. statistics sporting event scores stock prices and so forth . Such dividing can be performed in a predetermined manner based on information included in the communication and or other factors. For example a sports application can have a multitude of sports and there can be different streams for the scores corresponding to the number of sports thus if there are thirteen different sports there are thirteen different streams for the scores. There can also be another set of streams for statistical information fantasy team information player information and any other information that would be of interest to a user. It should be understood that while although the various aspects and features are described herein with reference to sports there is a multitude of other applications including but not limited to stock prices real estate transactions vehicles television programs and so on.

Also included in transmitter can be a labeler that can be configured to tag or provide an indicator associated with the content included in each stream. The tag or indicator can include content metadata and can be any type of indicator that can be utilized by receiver to identify content associated with each respective stream. Thus multiple channels can be linked to a stream based on a tag or other indicator that identifies the content included in each stream which can include multiple tagged channels. For example the tag or metadata might indicate the content type the content information or other information e.g. associated streams or channels importance and so forth that can be utilized by receiver and or channel selector in order to selectively accept or deny a particular stream.

The multiple data streams can be transmitted by transmitter so that receivers within the vicinity can receive and selectively accept and combine one or more of the multiple data steams . The multiple data streams can be transmitted at substantially the same time in order for receiver to selectively identify and accept one or more of the streams and combine streams if two or more are selected by channel selector . Thus transmitter can convey the multiple streams as a parallel transmission rather than a serial transmission. For example a serial transmission e.g. all data sent as a single stream can have a bandwidth that is equal to the sum of the bandwidth of the multiple streams thus the total bandwidth remains the same. Therefore system can provide multiple streams of data that does not increase the bandwidth but can allow receiver to obtain the content desired by an application which is associated with one or more stream more quickly.

In accordance with some aspects the transmitter of streams for a particular application can be slightly offset to account for the type of information being delivered the time needed for transmission and other factors so that the information arrives at receiver in a manner that can enrich a user experience.

System includes at least one transmitter and at least one receiver . Transmitter can be configured to divide or parse data into multiple streams in a predetermined manner and additionally include information within each of the multiple streams that identifies the type of data information contained therein information relating to associated streams and or other information that can be used by receiver to determine whether to accept and combine or ignore a particular stream. As illustrated transmitter can send multiple streams labeled Streamthrough Stream where N is an integer. The multiple streams are referred to collectively as streams .

Receiver includes a channel selector that can be configured to selectively accept one or more streams . Channel selector can facilitate receipt of data in such a manner that the amount of data delivery and the type of data that a user desires at any given point in time is optimized as well as minimize power consumption by the data reception hardware. Channel selector can further be configured to allow the user to create a desired experience in real time.

Associated with channel selector can be channel identifier that can be configured to recognize or distinguish between the multiple streams that are arriving at receiver . For example channel identifier can recognize each stream based in part on information included within the stream or associated with the stream. Such information can identify the information contained within the stream the type of information contained within the stream as well as other criteria e.g. associated streams importance of the information and so forth .

An aggregation component can be configured to selectively combine one or more of the data streams based on information such as policies rules user preferences user state and so forth. Thus depending on various criteria e.g. time of day user state and so on different streams might be accepted based on external data. For example a stream may be stored into memory by reference to the time of day a user might desire a particular type of information e.g. in the morning the user might only want news delivered in an audio stream at night the user would like both audio and video . In another example a stream is stored in memory by reference to the state of the user such as that relating to the activity currently being performed by the user e.g. if the user is operating a vehicle any streams containing video or text is not desired thus only audio streams would be accepted and presented to the user . In this implementation the user can provide information relating to a user state such as through an interface component or other selection means. In accordance with some aspects the receiver can be configured to infer the user state. Thus depending on the client application the user and or intrinsic extrinsic data aggregation component can selectively combine or parse one or more streams of data which can be rendered e.g. display produce audio and so forth by interface component .

In accordance with some aspects aggregation component can be configured to select the data stream based on information desired to be received by the user. For example transmitter might send a first information stream that includes A information a second information stream that includes B information and a third information stream that includes C information however the user only desires to receive the C information. Channel identifier can recognize the data stream that includes the C information which can be selectively chosen by aggregation component . Thus rather than accepting all three streams of information receiver can simply choose the single data stream that is of interest to the user which can be presented by interface component . In such a manner undesired information can be ignored and a richer user experience provided since the user does not have to wait for the undesired information e.g. A and B in the above example that might have been transmitted in a first to last data stream. Thus system provides user experiences and power saving advantages as well as other advantages.

With reference now to illustrated is another example system for facilitating multiple channel switching over a digital broadcast network. At times a user might not desire to receive all information e.g. data for all applications broadcast by a service provider but would rather receive only a subset of the data or application. System can provide the user a means such as through an application to dynamically accept one or more streams of transmitted data. As the one or more streams are accepted by receiving device each stream can be aggregated with additional streams of data if any. For example a single application data set can be partitioned into its subcomponents and each subcomponent transmitted individually. A receiving device can select which subcomponents if any to accept and can reconstruct portions of the application data or the entire application dataset as desired. Thus system can optimize the amount of data delivery and the type of data that the client desires at any point in time so as to save system resources and reduce latency.

A transmitter can divide a large amount of data such as a single application into different data streams or channels labeled Channelthrough Channel where N is an integer based on various factors. For example a first channel might include statistics a second channel might include video a third channel might include high definition video and so forth. A client e.g. receiver device can aggregate one or more channels in real time in order to create a desired user experience with minimal resource drain and enhanced quality.

Client can include a channel selector that can be configured to selectively accept one or more of the transmitted channels based on various criteria. To facilitate selective acceptance of the channel channel selector can include a channel identifier that can be configured to recognize features and or data associated with each channel distributed by transmitter . An aggregation component can be configured to select one or more channels and combine if more than one channel is selected the channels for rendering by interface component or for storage in the device memory. For example a single channel can be selected if information in that channel is desired and information contained in the other channels is not desired. If information from more than one stream is desired the channels can be combined to render or store e.g. visual audio and or through other perceivable means the combination of the channels.

In accordance with some aspects channel selector can include an optimization component that can be configured to facilitate selection of one or more channels based on resources available at the client . For example a certain channel might be heavy while processing capabilities on the client might be limited. For example a desktop computer might have more processing capabilities than a cellular telephone and thus can accept a channel that utilizes a large amount of processing capabilities to render the information in an appropriate manner. To account for the resources available on the client optimization component can be configured to compare the capabilities or limitations of the client and selectively accept or deny a channel based on information relating to the available capabilities. In one embodiment such data is included in the information associated with each channel. Thus if a channel is not suitable for a particular client optimization component can selectively ignore or deny that channel which will not be rendered by interface component . In accordance with some aspects a notification can be presented to the user through interface component which can allow the user to access a different device with capabilities more appropriate for the channel if the information particular to that channel is desired and cannot be processed by the current device.

Additionally or alternatively a location component can be included in channel selector . Location component can be configured to automatically accept a channel based on a client location. For example channels could be divided by transmitter based on a location e.g. city state geographic area to which the information is being sent e.g. geographic position of the client . Thus there can be a set of data sent to one city a second set of data sent to a second city and so forth. Location component can automatically accept a correct set based on the determined location and can use any type of locating means e.g. global positioning system to facilitate locating the client. In accordance with some aspects the information rendered on the client can be based on a city or other location selected from a list e.g. such as through interaction with interface component .

In further detail system includes a transmitter that can be configured to divide a datacast into different streams or channels of information that are broadcast at substantially the same time labeled Streamthrough Streamand referred to collectively as streams . This broadcast information can be accepted at a receiver that includes a channel selector that can be configured to selectively accept one or more streams . Included in channel selector can be a channel identifier that can be configured to obtain information e.g. metadata tag indicator included in each stream that identifies the stream and the content contained therein. An aggregation component can selectively accept one or more of the identified streams based on various criteria e.g. user state user preferences and so forth . The accepted streams can be combined if more than one selected and rendered e.g. visual audio and so on by interface component .

Also associated with receiver can be a preferences module that can configured to allow customization of various preferences associated with received multicast data which personalizes the data provided to the user through the rendering device e.g. receiver . A user can selectively provide information relating to the type of data the user desires to view such as through interaction with an interface component . For example a home page can be created by leveraging the different data streams that the user selects for rendering data. Such selection can be for live game statistics player information team information portfolio information and so forth. Preferences module can store user preferences or other user defined criteria e.g. statistics scores stock quotes and so forth . In accordance with some aspects data e.g. a particular stream being broadcast can be accepted based in part on the stored information.

For example in a gaming situation the data stored can be professional sporting event scores and or user game information. In addition for the user games there can be a scoring system based upon points a user has acquired as well as other criteria. A user can store various experiences such as my teams my portfolio my cities and so on each of which can be populated by different streams e.g. each has an associated channel .

Since some devices have limited capacity e.g. screen size the user can be provide with all the desired information by utilizing the stored preferences and selectively choosing different items based on that stored information. The data can be maintained in a manageable and readily retrievable format. It should be understood that presenting data based on preferences renders data that might not be a live broadcast. In accordance with some aspects the data is being broadcast and is selectively chosen from the multiple streams at substantially the same time as the streams are detected by receiver .

Preferences module can also be configured to provide a standardized selection mechanism and a standardized presentation metaphor. For example a selection for My Cities can provide preferred weather forecast information e.g. weather service . A selection for My Portfolio can provide preferred stock condition information e.g. stock service . A selection for My Teams can provide preferred sports team tracking information e.g. sports service . A selection for My Players can provide preferred athlete performance tracking information. Further a selection for My Statistics can provide consumer performance in live statistics games as well as feedback e.g. scoring for consumer performance . Other selections can also be provided based on the type of service desired.

Preferences module can provide a home page that leverages the different desired data streams or channels . Such a home page can provide the user a place where they can experience a sense of interacting with the service presented.

In accordance with some aspects a reward system for user achievement e.g. fantasy games live statistic games and so forth can be provided. Points can be used and repurposed for other features. There can be built in reward metrics and an interface can be modified to reflect consumer achievement e.g. winning losing fantasy game allowing the preferences module to enhance the user s service connection.

System includes a transmitter that can be configured to communicate with a user device by dividing an application into multiple streams or channels . Each of the multiple channels can relate to a different type of communication such as an audio channel a data channel a video channel and so forth. In accordance with some aspects transmitter can send multiple streams that relate to different applications e.g. a first set of streams relate to a first application a second set of streams relate to a second application and so forth . User device includes a channel selector that can be configured to selectively choose one or more channels that are to be presented e.g. visual audio and so forth to a user.

User device can also include an interpreter that can be configured to recognize flags or other indicators included in each of the multiple channels e.g. a data feed . The flags allow interpreter to determine what data is part of an audio stream for example. With this information user device can decode the data and convert it to an audio source. Flags can further allow interpreter to distinguish which data should be rendered visually on the screen. An example of this type of service is an audio broadcast of a baseball game being broadcast to user device in conjunction with live statistics about the game. In this example flags in the audio stream can indicate that the game statistics should be rendered visually on the screen.

In accordance with some aspects audio data can be included in one or more channels and selectively chosen by channel selector . Corresponding display data can also be selectively chosen and rendered on user device at substantially the same time as the audio is presented. For example a user listening to a broadcast of a baseball game can further be presented with a visual interpretation e.g. bases where each player is located on the field and so forth . Thus user device can automatically synchronize the audio and the video information according to the user preferences.

In another example for a football broadcast a visual interpretation could be the football field in which each team and or player is located tracking of the football and so on. At substantially the same time as viewing the information an audio feed can be broadcast. The audio data and the visual information can be provided by separate channels that are aggregated at user device such as through an aggregation component. The transmitter can include functionality to allow synchronization of the different channels by user device . For example a live broadcast can be time shifted slightly e.g. 30 seconds 60 seconds by transmitter so that the information can be perceived by the user in an understandable format. The time shifting may compensate for the audio files being received slightly faster than the data files in some configurations.

In accordance with some aspects transmitter can provide information that can be utilized by user device to synchronize the different channels e.g. data video audio and so forth . User device can include a verifier that can be configured to analyze information contained in the selected channels to determine if the correct information has been received. Verifier can determine whether the user is listening to an audio broadcast and should be presented with a data representation of the play by play information. The information needed for synchronization can be encapsulated within the audio stream for example. Thus system can provide a synchronization service so that the visually rendered data matches the audio stream information.

In accordance with some aspects verifier can be configured to obtain information from at least one selected channel that is not currently being presented to the user. For example the newly selected channel might conflict with another selected channel because both channels need to utilize the same resources e.g. display screen speakers and so on . Information relating to the non presented channel can be provided to the user such as through an interface component with indications of how the user can be presented with the new channel.

For example a first hockey game is being watched on a display screen and a second hockey game is selected by channel selector e.g. a subsequent channel is received that conforms to various selection parameters . Information included in the second selected channel can indicate that it should be presented to the user on a display screen. A notification can be presented to the user to determine whether the user would like to be presented with the second hockey game at substantially the same time as the user is presented with the first hockey game or if it should be presented in place of the first hockey game. Depending on the user s response a second display area could be provided on the display screen e.g. picture within a picture . This double presentation of visual information can be presented at substantially the same time as audio information is presented that relates to the first or second hockey game or to a different game program or application e.g. viewing games while listening to a disclosure interview . In such a manner system can enrich the user experience by allowing the user to perceive multiple channels that can relate to one application e.g. a single ball game or to multiple applications e.g. more than one ball game .

In this system user device includes background functionality that can be configured to tune into a broadcast stream to download media files when the user device is not in use e.g. is in idle or standby mode . A data scheduler can be configured to provide a schedule for the download connections. The connection times can be based on the schedule provided by data scheduler which can have multiple contact windows in case repeated attempts to access data are needed.

For example a schedule can provide that a particular channel or broadcast is to be downloaded at 11 00 a.m. 12 30 p.m. and 3 00 p.m. If the download is completed at 11 00 a.m. the remaining scheduled download times are ignored or the download can be initiated and terminated when it is determined that the download is completed data is already loaded in device . If the download at 11 00 a.m. was not completed e.g. was interrupted encountered errors and so forth the download can repeat at the next scheduled time e.g. 12 30 p.m. . Any number of download times windows can be provided depending on various criteria e.g. predefined number of attempts speed of data connection strength of data connection importance of the information user selection as well as other factors .

The broadcast stream can be downloaded and stored as pre loaded media . The pre loaded media can include an entire application e.g. program sporting event and so on or it can be an audio or video clip or small segment. For example rather than obtaining a live broadcast of an audio or video system can store clips or segments locally on the device or in a remote device. Received broadcast data can be synchronized with the stored clips mitigating the need to synchronize broadcast streams.

In accordance with some aspects data in the broadcast stream could trigger the client side media files e.g. pre loaded media . The data stream can provide file information as well as source data indicating what to do if the file does not exist e.g. how to access the file remotely a different file that can be utilized whether or not to ignore the request for the file and so forth . Transmitter can send triggers along with the data streams which the device interprets to determine when to render a stored data file e.g. clips . Thus device can receive live data streams that allow the user to view live data as well as view the pre loaded media files at substantially the same time.

For example a video clip can be a three second view clip that is rendered based on a trigger indication received in at least one broadcast stream . The video clip can be a generic clip that is shown with live audio new streams . In accordance with some aspects downloads are scheduled such that the device stores clips for a predetermined time. After expiration of the time the data broadcast can implement a fist clip and the user can perceive e.g. visual audio and so forth some data. A second clip can then be implemented allowing the user to perceive different data which might be in the same or a different format. At another time e.g. next day next week one or more new clips can be downloaded and stored by device .

In accordance with another aspect for the pre loaded media files receiver can initiate a background process when the receiver is not in use and tunes into a broadcast stream to download media files. These connections can be based on a schedule provided by scheduler with multiple contact windows in case previous attempts to access the data fail. An example of this type of service would be an application that receives live data streams that allow the user to view live data and then view the pre loaded media files. In addition to the pre loaded media files and live data experience the device could produce a live audio component at substantially the same time as the visually rendered data. Data in the broadcast stream could trigger the client side media files . The data stream provides information to the client which includes the available files as well as alternate retrieval information. The server can provide a matching service so that the visually rendered data corresponds to the audio stream information.

In accordance with some aspects system can facilitate client side cache advertising. For example if an advertiser desires to promote a ring a short visual clip of the ring can be sent to the device to be included as pre loaded media. A trigger can be provided that at a certain time or based on a certain event e.g. activation of device a particular user interaction with device such as pressing a certain key or opening closing the application and so forth the ring clip can be presented to the user. Additionally the clip can include data relating to contact information to purchase the ring and or a special promotional code. In accordance with some aspects data sent to receiver is a trigger to invoke the cached media file and does not include any other data.

Additionally or alternatively a content provider or advertiser might load various media files on a device during an initial initialization process. Thus as a user receives and begins using the device one or more streams can be broadcast that provide a key that selectively releases a media file at a certain point e.g. release on Friday at 8 00 p.m. if the user is actively using the device . Another example of pre loaded media content can be a video clip that is stored on a device and when there is a radio broadcast of the song associated with the video clip the video clip is automatically displayed.

In accordance with another aspect a content provider might allow a pre loading or downloading of a programming content and only allow that content to be unlocked at a certain predetermined time. For example a user might be going on vacation and will be on a plane and out of range for a premiere of a movie. The user can be provided the ability to download the movie prior to departure and even though while on the plane the user does not have reception the user can view the movie at substantially the same time as it is premiered. The data movie in this example can automatically erase after it is viewed.

Intelligent client software can include functionality that tunes into separate broadcast channels in a specific manner. The functionality is responsive to user interaction with the client software. The software can facilitate acquiring and filling data necessary for the user experience in a manner that is transparent to the user. Rather than listening to a single broadcast channel for data multiple broadcast connections are regularly opened and closed based on the application needs. Client functionality for tuning into separate broadcast channels can also be provided. Additional features include client functionality for managing the data received on multiple broadcast channels. Additional features include and server functionality to facilitate the same.

In further detail system employs artificial intelligence AI methods which can be facilitated by AI component as illustrated. The various embodiments in connection with selectively accepting one or more streams of data can employ various AI based schemes e.g. machine learning rules based techniques for carrying out various aspects thereof. For example a process for determining whether a particular stream should be rendered on a user device or might be of interest to the user can be facilitated through an automatic classifier system and process. For example based on a user state AI component can identify the data that should be selected based on an inference of what a user in that state would desire.

A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x x x x xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires. In the case of data streams for example attributes can be included within a particular stream e.g. indicator metadata and the classes are categories or areas of interest e.g. user preferences device information and so forth .

A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include for example na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

As will be readily appreciated from the subject specification the one or more embodiments can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. through a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. by observing user behavior receiving extrinsic information . For example SVM s are configured through a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to determining according to a predetermined criteria which streams to render on a device and which streams would be of interest to a user of the device. The criteria can include but is not limited to the type of data included in each stream the content included in each stream device information user preferences and user state.

In view of the exemplary systems shown and described above methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow charts of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the number or order of blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter. It is to be appreciated that the functionality associated with the blocks may be implemented by software hardware a combination thereof or any other suitable means e.g. device system process component . Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to various devices. Those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram.

At a data set is parsed into multiple streams. The parsing can be based on the content type e.g. video audio high definition video and so forth or other criteria. In accordance with some aspects the parsing is based on the specific content information. For example content can include a first set of information a second set of information and a third set of information. The content can be parsed into three or more streams each stream dedicated to one of the sets of information.

At each respective stream is tagged with information that identifies the content included in each stream. The tag can be an indicator or flag that a receiving device can interpret to make a determination whether to accept the stream. In accordance with some aspects the tag includes information identifying associated streams. For example an audio stream can include a tag or other indicator that allows a receiving device to identify an associated video stream if any. In such a manner the receiving device can selectively determine whether to accept and present to a user one or both streams.

The streams of content can be selectively transmitted at . The streams can be transmitted at substantially the same time or at different times which might be slightly offset to take into account the presentation of each stream by a receiving device. For example a data file might be transmitted slightly before a corresponding audio file is transmitted. In such a manner both files might arrive at a receiving device at about the same time.

Method starts at when one or more channels are received and content contained therein is identified. The content included in each channel can be identified based on tags or other data included in each channel. The tags can identify the type of content the information included in the channel associated channels etc. Based on the tag each channel can be selectively accepted or denied. The acceptance or denial determination can also be made in conjunction with selection parameters such as policies rules user preferences user state time of day current activity or combinations thereof. If a channel does not conform to at least one selection parameter it can be ignored e.g. not accepted .

In accordance with some aspects the selection can be made based in part on device capabilities or available resources. If the available resources are not adequate to support at least one of the channels that should be selected according to the selection algorithm a notification can be presented to a user. In another aspect the selection can be made based in part on a location which can be established through any type of locating means e.g. GPS or through a manual entry e.g. user enters a location .

If more than one channel is accepted the channels are aggregated at . The aggregation can be performed in real time and can take into account different delivery times of each stream. Additionally the streams can be stitched together in order to provide a rich user experience. For example a first channel can be a data channel and a second channel can be an audio channel. If the first channel arrived later than the second channel the aggregation can selectively shift or offset the start of the second channel. At the subset of content e.g. accepted channels are rendered on receiving device in any perceivable manner. A customized home page can be created based on the aggregated subset of channels and selectively presented to the user as a home page.

Method starts at when at least two channels that represent different applications are received at a wireless device. The different applications can be similar activities such as different sporting events e.g. football baseball golf and so on or the different applications can be different activities e.g. sporting event stock information business data and so forth . The different applications might be related although it is contemplated that the applications are not related.

At a single interface on the wireless device is provided. The interface can render data in a number of perceivable formats e.g. visual audio and so on . The single interface can render at least a first audio content and a video content at substantially the same time. The first audio content and the video content are from different applications as discussed above. In accordance with some aspects at least a second video content associated with another application can be displayed on the single interface at substantially the same time as the first video content is displayed.

A data stream that corresponds to the audio content can be decoded and data that should be rendered visually on the single interface can be distinguished from other data. A request can be presented to a user to verify whether the video content should be replaced by the data or whether the video content and the data should be presented at substantially the same time. Depending on the response to the verification request the data can be replaced or rendered at substantially the same time as the other data.

Additionally or alternatively at at least one media content is retained in a retrievable format such as a storage media. The media content can be a client side cache advertising or other information that should be presented to the user in place of live broadcast content. The media content can be preloaded during manufacture or other times prior to distribution of the wireless device e.g. before a user has possession of the device . In accordance with some aspects the media content can be downloaded based on a downloading schedule during an idle state and or by utilizing background functionality associated with the wireless device.

At the at least one media content can be selectively rendered in a perceivable format based on a triggering event. The triggering event can be one or more of a time e.g. a predetermined day and minute of the day a received broadcast e.g. broadcast that initiates the rendering of the media content or an action e.g. a manual function performed by a user such as powering up a device .

With reference to illustrated is an example system that selectively renders at least a subset of content. For example system may reside at least partially within a mobile device. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which may be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combinations thereof e.g. firmware .

System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act separately or in conjunction. For instance logical grouping may include an electrical component for identifying a plurality of channels . The channels can include respective sets of content. Also included can be an electrical component for aggregating a subset of the channels to render a set of aggregated or parsed content . Aggregating the subset of content can be performed in real time.

Alternatively or additionally the electrical component for identifying a plurality of channels can further detect a tag associated with each of the plurality of channels. The tag can include information relating to a content of each of the plurality of channels.

In accordance with some aspects logical grouping can include an electrical component for selectively accepting at least the subset of channels based on the detected tag information and at least one selection parameter. The selection parameter can include at least one of a rule a policy a user preference a user state a time of day a current activity or combinations thereof. Further logical grouping can include an electrical component for selecting the subset of channels based in part on a location.

Logical grouping might include an electrical component for determining an associated channel based on information included in at least one of the plurality of channels. Logical grouping might also include an electrical component for ignoring at least one channel of the plurality of channels associated with an application on a user device if the at least one channel does not conform to at lest one selection parameter.

Logical grouping might also include an electrical component for selecting the subset of channels with reference to data corresponding to available resources and an electrical component for notifying a user if available resources are not adequate to support at least one of the plurality of channels. Further logical grouping might include an electrical component for creating a customized home page based on the aggregated subset of channels.

Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and or other components. While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components and may exist within memory .

System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act separately or in conjunction. For instance logical grouping may include an electrical component for parsing a set of data into multiple streams . Also included can be an electrical component for tagging the respective streams with information to identify content within each stream . In accordance with some aspects logical grouping can include an electrical component for transmitting each of the multiple streams at substantially the same time or shifting the transmission timing of at least one stream based on a transmission speed.

Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and or other components. While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components and may exist within memory .

It is to be understood that the embodiments described herein may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode or any combination thereof. When the systems and or methods are implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode program code or code segments they may be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage component. A code segment may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted using any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a software implementation the techniques described herein may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes may be stored in memory units and executed by processors. The memory unit may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor through various means as is known in the art.

Moreover various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips etc. optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD etc. smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. EPROM card stick key drive etc. . Additionally various storage media described herein can represent one or more devices and or other machine readable media for storing information. The term machine readable medium can include without being limited to wireless channels and various other media capable of storing containing and or carrying instruction s and or data.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned embodiments but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of various embodiments are possible. Accordingly the described embodiments are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within scope of the appended claims. To the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim. Furthermore the term or as used in either the detailed description of the claims is meant to be a non exclusive or .

