---

title: System and method for aggregating and extending parental controls auditing in a computer network
abstract: A system and method for aggregating and extending parental controls auditing in an unmanaged computing network are provided. A parental control system, including a parental control database, logging interface, and audit process, resides on each host computing device in an unmanaged computing network that is capable of synchronizing data residing on one of the host computing devices with data residing on the other devices in the network. The parental control system facilitates the logging and reporting of parental control audit information in a manner that allows parents to aggregate the audit information to obtain a comprehensive audit report of their children's use of all computers in the home, and is extensible and customizable by the applications from which the parental control audit information originates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07600019&OS=07600019&RS=07600019
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07600019
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080423
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 823 277 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 389 346 filed Apr. 13 2004 which application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In general the present invention relates to computer software and computer communication networks and in particular to a system and method for aggregating and extending parental controls auditing in an unmanaged computer network.

Parental control systems for computers and television have become increasingly popular as more and more homes have access to the Internet and extensive cable or satellite television offerings. With respect to computers and Internet usage parents especially want to know what their children are doing when they use the computer including the web sites they visit and the individuals with whom they are communicating.

Some applications such as those provided by Internet service providers MSN and America Online AOL provide parental controls but they are limited to restricting and auditing usage of features inside the application. Another problem with existing parental controls solutions is that the parents receive fragmented audit reports when their children use multiple computers located throughout the home. For example if a child uses a computer in the kitchen and then a computer in his room the parent will get two reports that he or she will have to cross reference manually. In the multiple computer household children might attempt to circumvent parental controls by purposefully using different computers to get more time on the computer than allowed or to use a computer having a program or unrestricted access to the Internet that is not available on their own computer. Efforts to maintain such information in a centralized server outside of the home but accessible to the parents raises privacy issues that makes such a solution undesirable.

Connecting the household computers to a home network might offer parents some additional control such as providing a single point of access to the Internet from which certain computers in the home may be disconnected from time to time. But unlike a managed computing network environment common to business and other large scale computing networks the typical home network is an unmanaged network that offers parents little in the way of control. For example a home network does not typically incorporate a primary domain controller for regulating user access or centralized data file storage. Instead many unmanaged computing networks require individual user management in terms of regulating user security authorization to use the various computing devices on the network. Further most unmanaged networks require additional user participation and knowledge to store recall and synchronize content stored on the various computing devices on the network. As a consequence the home network offers few benefits in terms of parental control since existing parental control solutions in a home network are constrained by the network s limitations to operate independently on each computing device just the same as if the device were not on the network. Moreover the home network may also introduce other problems such as providing the children access to unprotected files on the parents computer such as the parents financial or other personal files e.g. Microsoft Money etc.

Another problem with existing parental control systems today is that third party applications using a proprietary parental control system are forced to log events so that they conform to the style dictated by the proprietary system s auditing schema. Since not all applications that the parents install on their computers will conform to the proprietary auditing schema there may be gaps in the audit reports generated by the parent control system. Parents are therefore unable to get the full picture of their children s computer usage. For example parents may not be aware of which games movies or other activities their children are involved in using computers in the home.

A system and method for aggregating and extending parental controls auditing in an unmanaged computing network are provided. A parental control system including a parental control database logging interface and audit process resides on each host computing device in an unmanaged computing network that is capable of synchronizing data residing on one of the host computing devices with data residing on the other devices in the network. The parental control system facilitates the logging of parental control audit information associated with a unique user identifier of a restricted user e.g. a particular child s user account in a manner that is extensible and customizable by the applications from which the parent control audit information originates. The parental control system further facilitates the reporting of the audit information in a manner that allows parents to aggregate the audit information to obtain a comprehensive audit report of their children s use of all computers in the home.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention the logging interface permits applications including any services running on any host computing device in the network to log parental control audit information to a resident copy of the parental control database using a universal schema. The parental control audit information may include any information associated with the unique user identifier that may be of interest to a parent that is recorded collected or otherwise generated by an application or service activated or otherwise used by the uniquely identified user on any device in the network. The universal schema may be any data representation format that facilitates universal access to the logged parental control audit information such as the Extensible Markup Language XML . During operation each resident copy of the parental control database is synchronized with each other copy of the database residing on the other host computing devices in the network.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the audit process receives a request from a parent for an aggregated view of the content of the parental control database corresponding to a set of criteria such as for a particular child a particular period of time or for a particular application or service. Periodically or in response to the parent s request the audit process generates an audit report containing an aggregated view of the content from the resident copy of the synchronized parental control database.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention the logging interface further permits applications and services to provide a customizable style that controls what audit information is logged to the resident copy of the parental control database and how that logged information should be displayed or presented during the audit process. The customizable styles may be in any universally recognized format for transforming and presenting data such as the Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations XSLT language. The customizable styles are stored in a resident copy of a custom log styles database in a host computing device on the network. Similar to the parental control database each resident copy of the custom log styles database is synchronized with each other copy of the custom log styles database residing on the other host computing devices in the network. In operation the audit process generates the audit report from the resident copies of both the synchronized parental control database and synchronized custom log styles database. The parental control database contains the actual parental control audit information that was logged by the applications or services and the custom log styles database contains the style data that controls how the information is presented in the audit report to a parent or child end user.

In accordance with a further aspect of the present invention the parental control system further includes a notification process in which a parent or child is notified that the parental control system has been activated and whether there is available any logged parental control audit information in the parental control database from which to generate an audit report. The notification process may operate periodically as a reminder to parents to check their children s computer usage or continuously in real time in response to detecting that an application or service is logging parental control audit information to the parental control database or notify a user that parental control auditing has commenced or terminated.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the present invention the audit process generates an audit report from the point of view of the parent or the child i.e. the restricted user whose computer usage is being audited. The audit process further generates a summary audit report or a detail report and may be dynamically altered to generate a summary or detailed report in response to a user input. The audit process may further generate a report of the parental control settings for a particular child as received via a parent input to the system.

In accordance with yet other aspects of the present invention a computer accessible medium for aggregating and extending parental controls auditing in an unmanaged computing network is provided. The computer accessible medium comprises data structures and computer executable components comprising a parental control system and method including a parental control database custom log styles database logging interface and audit process for permitting applications and services to log parental control audit information for a computer user in a manner that is extensible and customizable by the application as well as in a manner that may be aggregated for presenting a comprehensive audit report of the user s computer usage. The data structures define parental control audit information logging interfaces and audit reports in a manner that is generally consistent with the above described system and method. Likewise the computer executable components are capable of performing actions generally consistent with the above described system and method.

Generally described the present invention corresponds to a system and method for aggregating and extending parental controls auditing in an unmanaged computing network. More specifically the present invention corresponds to a system and method for facilitating the logging of parental control audit information associated with a unique user identifier i.e. a particular child s user account in a manner that is extensible and customizable by the applications from which the parental control audit information originates. The system and method further facilitates the reporting of the audit information in a manner that allows parents to aggregate the audit information to obtain a comprehensive audit report of their children s use of all computers in the home i.e. all computing devices in the unmanaged network. In the discussion that follows the term parent is generally used to describe the administrative or unrestricted user and the term child is generally used to describe a restricted user i.e. any user upon whom a restriction has been placed by an administrator. Although the present invention will be described with regard to an unmanaged network in which all the network computing devices have common security profiles for all authorized users of the network one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the present invention may be implement in alternative unmanaged networks in which each computing device may maintain separate security profiles for authorized network users. Further one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that some or all of the aspects of the present invention may be practiced in managed computer networks.

In addition while the computing system will be described in the general context of a personal computer usable in a distributed computing environment where complementary tasks are performed by remote computing devices linked together through a communication network those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with many other computer system configurations including multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. In addition to the more conventional computer systems described above those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention may be practiced on other computing devices including laptop computers tablet computers personal digital assistants PDAs and other devices upon which computer software or other digital content is installed. Moreover while aspects of the invention may be described in terms of applications and interfaces executed by an operating system in conjunction with a personal computer those skilled in the art will recognize that those aspects also may be implemented in combination with other program modules or subsystems such as a security subsystem of the operating system. Generally program modules include routines programs subprograms subroutines interfaces components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.

For the sake of convenience much of the description herein is provided in the context of the Microsoft Windows operating system and associated security subsystem. In particular although the description of the computing system suitable for implementing various features of the invention will include references to the Windows operating system and security subsystem those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention may be practiced in the context of other operating systems and security subsystems.

In view of the foregoing the embodiments described with regard to the present invention are illustrative in nature and should not be construed as limiting.

As illustrated in for a particular user a first computing device MACHINE A maintains data in a first parental control system A residing in a local memory that can be accessed in some manner by the user. Similarly a second computing device MACHINE B maintains data in a second parental control system B and a third machine MACHINE C maintains data in a second parental control system C. from which systems data may be accessed in some manner by the user. As will be explained in additional detail below the data maintained in the parental control systems A B and C are associated with an access control list ACL that indicates which user SIDs and group SIDs that may have access to the particular data. Additionally each ACL may also indicate limitations to the type of access to the data a particular user SID or group SID may have. For example an ACL may indicate that a particular user may access to read the data but cannot modify the data in any manner. Further each ACL may also indicate a current owner of the data corresponding to the user SID that created and or last edited the data.

The custom log style data provides the third party applications with the option to extend and customize the audit reporting available to the parent using the parental control system . In this way a third party application may control what information is logged to the parental control database and how it is reported to the parent or child . For example if the parent installs a third party digital video disc player DVD on the family computer the DVD application might log the titles of all of the DVD movies that her child watches on the computer. When the parental control audit report is later obtained by the parent it will list not only all of the movie titles that the child watched but also the Motion Picture Association MPAA ratings objectionable content assessments e.g. violence nudity and the cast. The audit information logged by the DVD application may be specified using a universally accessible schema such as XML. The custom log data may include the universally accessible log schema as well as a style guide such as an XSL style sheet. The custom XML schema contains the format of an XML document e.g. Title MPAA rating Content Cast and the XSL style sheet is a file that describes how to display an XML document of a given type.

For example in one embodiment during application installation and setup the application will register an XML schema with the parental control system that contains the format of the data describing the custom audit events that the application intends to log along with a custom report XSL style sheet for each report the application wants to provide to the user. The registered XML schema and XSL style sheet are stored on the custom log styles database . During operation the application uses the parental control logging API and custom logging event processor to log application originated data about the event in the parental control database in accordance with the XML schema. Subsequently the parental control audit process accesses the custom log styles database to retrieve the XML schema and XSL style sheet to determine how to present the logged data to the parent user when generating the parental control audit report and or parental control audit notification .

It is understood that the parental control database and custom log styles database are shown as separate data repositories for the sake of illustration and that the data they represent may be stored using other means. For example as described in the next two figures the databases may be implemented as tables in a Windows File System WinFS database. Thus the databases may be implemented in a variety of ways without departing from the scope of the claims that follow.

The parental control audit process further comprises a parental control hub which is a user interface that is provided to a parent user for purposes of aiding in the navigation to a parental control audit detail report or a parental control audit summary report . An example of the parental control detail report is described in further detail in . Generally the detail report is used to report all of the detailed information about a particular restricted user s computer usage e.g. a particular child s use of all of the computers on the home network. The detail information may include a variety of information about different applications that the child has used aggregated across all computer devices in the network. The parental control hub may further include options to produce a report of the current settings for one or more restricted users.

In a preferred embodiment the aggregated information that is used to generate the audit detail report is obtained from the parental control databases and custom log style database residing on all of the computer devices in the network through merging and replicating the data contained in the databases and conducting a local query to the resident databases as will be described in further detail in below. In an alternate embodiment the aggregated information is obtained by conducting an aggregated query to each of the databases residing on each device in the network as described in commonly assigned co pending application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 691 872 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING AGGREGATED DATA FILE VIEWS IN A COMPUTER NETWORK filed on Oct. 23 2003 and which is incorporated by reference herein.

The parental control audit summary generally contains summary information obtained from the parental control databases and custom log style database for one or more restricted users or for one or more applications accessible by restricted users. For example the parent might request the auditing process to produce a summary report of the total number of logon hours internet hours etc. for all of her children before requesting a report showing the detailed information for a particular child.

The parental control audit process may further generate a parental control audit detail report from the perspective of the child or restricted user. That is the child may submit a request to the parental control audit process to generate a report similar to what is provided to the parent detailing his or her usage on the home network. In this way the child can to a certain extent self monitor their usage and alter their behavior accordingly in an effort to comply with the restrictions placed on them by their parents. The reports from the child s perspective are generally read only and may include a report of the settings i.e. the restrictions currently in place for him or her as well as the full detail of their computer usage.

In operation at processing block the parental control audit process is activated to control audit reporting an all of the devices in the network to which the identified user account has access. Once activated at processing block the parental control audit process generates the appropriate notifications to the parent and child users to notify them of the commencement or termination of a parental control audit and or the availability of parental control audit information.

Processing continues at process block where the parental control audit process generates a parental control audit notification to the parent user and or child user notifying them that parental control auditing has commenced or terminated as the case may be or that specific audit information has been logged and is available for reporting. In one embodiment the notification is generated automatically on a periodic basis to remind the parent that a new audit report is ready for the parent to review. In this way the notification aids parents in remaining vigilant in enforcing restrictions on their children s use of the computer. Of course the described notifications are for the sake of illustration only and other types of relevant notifications may be generated for the parents and children users affected by the parental control audit process without departing from the scope of the claims that follow.

At processing block the parental control system continues in one embodiment to aggregate the audit information logged in the parental control database and custom log styles database by periodically continuously or on demand merging and replicating the data contained in the databases with the corresponding databases on every computer device in the network as will be described in further detail in . In an alternate embodiment the aggregation of data represented in processing block may be accomplished by sending an aggregated query to all computer devices on the network upon receiving a request from a parent or child to report the audit information. By aggregating the audit information logged in the parental control database the parent can easily determine what their children have been doing on all the computer devices in the home network. From the aggregated information contained in an audit report the parent can see who the children are communicating with where they go on the web and which applications they run on the different computers in the household. For example the audit report may quickly highlight the fact that a child visits a questionable web site only from the computer in their bedroom.

At processing block the parental control audit process receives a request from a parent user or child user as the case may be to view information available in the parental control database. In one embodiment the request may be in the form of a query that contains a set of criteria to apply against the parental control database to match all content in which the parent or child user identified by a user SID security token can access. Additionally the query can include any number of additional criteria input by a parent administrator or child user such as specific user SIDs of restricted users specific applications date ranges etc. that can be used to match the audit information contained in the database. One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that some or all portions of the query string such as the user SID may be entered automatically without requiring additional user input. Alternatively some portion of the query string such as the additional search criteria may be specified by user at the time the request is made or may be pre determined as part of a configuration of the computing device in the network from which the request is made.

In response to the request the parental control audit process obtains the aggregated data as described with reference to processing block and determines at decision block whether the user wishes to view the parental control settings that are currently in place to restrict one or more users or whether they wish to view a detail or summary audit report of the audit information currently available.

At processing block the parental control audit process generates a view of the requested audit settings for all of the restricted users or a particular restricted user in accordance with the request received in processing block . At processing block the parental control audit process generates a view of the requested audit report for all of the restricted users or a particular restricted user in accordance with the request received in processing block . When the request has been received from a restricted user i.e. a child then the audit settings or report is generated from their perspective as appropriate.

The email section at entitled Toby exchanged email messages with is followed by a scrollable listing of the individuals with whom Toby exchanged emails including the individual s email address and the total number of emails and replies that were sent. Likewise the instant messages section entitled Toby exchanged Windows instant messages with is followed by a scrollable listing of the individuals with whom Toby exchanged instant messages including the individual s email address and the total number of conversations that were conducted.

The web site section entitled Toby visited these web sites is followed by a scrollable listing of the name URL of the web site that was visited and the number of times that it was visited. Additional information such as whether the site was blocked may be listed as well. The game section entitled Toby played these games is followed by a scrollable listing of the names of the games that Toby played the total number of times the game was played and the duration of play. The application section entitled Toby used these programs is followed by a scrollable listing of the names of the programs that Toby used the total number of times the program was used and the duration of use. Of course the information shown in each section described above is for purposes of illustration only. The selection of which information to show and in what order may vary from one section to the next and in the case of applications taking advantage of the extensibility offered by the parental control system may even be controlled by the application from which the information originated via the use of the custom logging information stored in the custom log styles database e.g. the XML schema and XSL style sheets that describe what audit information is to be reported and how.

Additional interactive buttons to facilitate the use of the audit report such as the Save button the Print button and the Close button may be provided. For example the Save button may be used by the parent or child to save the audit report for archival purposes. Of course it is understood that the illustrated audit report is depicted by way of example only and that numerous other designs in presenting the auditing information in the report may be employed without departing from the scope of the claims that follow.

While the presently preferred embodiments of the invention have been illustrated and described it will be appreciated that various changes may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example in one embodiment of the present invention the various components of the parental control system and in particular the functionality of the parental control audit process and custom logging event process as described above may be implemented in different combinations of processes programs or interfaces and may be distributed across one or more computing devices in the unmanaged network.

