---

title: Adjustable write pulse generator within a chalcogenide memory device
abstract: An adjustable write pulse generator is disclosed. The adjustable write pulse generator includes a band-gap reference current, a programmable ring oscillator, a frequency divider and a single pulse generator. The band-gap reference current circuit generates a well-compensated current over a predetermined range of temperatures needed to program a chalcogenide memory cell. The programmable ring oscillator generates a first set of continuous write “0” and write “1” pulse signals based on the well-compensated current. The frequency divider then divides the first set of continuous write “0” and write “1” pulse signals into a second set of continuous write “0” and write “1” pulse signals. The single pulse generator subsequently converts the second set of continuous write “0” and write “1” pulse signals into a single write “0” pulse signal or a single write “1” pulse signal when programming the chalcogenide memory cell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08059454&OS=08059454&RS=08059454
owner: Ovonyx, Inc.
number: 08059454
owner_city: Rochester Hills
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081201
---
The present application claims benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 365 to the previously filed international patent application number PCT US2008 085176 filed on Dec. 1 2008 assigned to the assignee of the present application and having a priority date of Nov. 30 2007 based upon U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 991 421. The contents of both applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention was made with United States Government assistance under Contract No. FA9453 04 C 0052 awarded by the United States Air Force. The United States Government has certain rights in the present invention.

The present invention relates to memory devices in general and in particular to an adjustable write pulse generator within a chalcogenide memory device.

Phase transformation is a process of changing a phase change material from an amorphous state into a crystalline state or vice versa. Such phase transformation generally occurs when an electrical field is being applied to a phase change material. Because the amorphous state of the phase change material has a different electrical resistance from the crystalline state of the phase change material the two different states can be utilized to represent a logical 0 and a logical 1 respectively for data storage applications.

An alloy known as chalcogenide which includes germanium antimony and tellurium can be made to have phase transformation properties at a relatively low voltage. The electrical properties of chalcogenide are also particularly suitable for data storage applications. Since random access memories made of chalcogenide can easily be integrated with conventional logic circuits chalcogenide random access memories have gradually become one of the more promising technologies for producing a new generation of memory devices especially for light portable electronic devices.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention an adjustable write pulse generator includes a band gap reference current a programmable ring oscillator a frequency divider and a single pulse generator. The band gap reference current circuit generates a well compensated current over a predetermined range of temperatures needed to program a chalcogenide memory cell. The programmable ring oscillator generates a first set of continuous write 0 and write 1 pulse signals based on the well compensated current. The frequency divider then divides the first set of continuous write 0 and write 1 pulse signals into a second set of continuous write 0 and write 1 pulse signals. The single pulse generator subsequently converts the second set of continuous write 0 and write 1 pulse signals into a single write 0 pulse signal or a single write 1 pulse signal when programming the chalcogenide memory cell.

All features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent in the following detailed written description.

Referring now to the drawings and in particular to there is illustrated a current voltage curve of a chalcogenide memory cell as the chalcogenide memory cell is being programmed and read. As shown the chalcogenide material in the chalcogenide memory cell behaves like a quasi linear resistor in a polycrystalline state and the chalcogenide material exhibits a voltage snap back at approximately a threshold voltage Vin an amorphous state.

The chalcogenide memory cell can be placed in a read mode when the applied voltage to the chalcogenide material within the chalcogenide memory cell is lower than the threshold voltage V. Conversely the chalcogenide memory cell can be placed in a program or write mode when the applied voltage to chalcogenide material within the chalcogenide memory cell is higher than the threshold voltage V.

During the program mode the chalcogenide memory cell can be programmed to either a low resistance state i.e. a logical 1 or set or a high resistance state i.e. a logical 0 or reset by utilizing different write current amplitude to heat the chalcogenide material within the chalcogenide memory cell to either the polycrystalline state or the amorphous state respectively as shown in .

Writing a logical 1 requires a lower current amplitude and a relatively long cooling time. In contrast writing a logical 0 requires a higher current amplitude and a much shorter cooling time.

An extrapolation of the linear region of the current voltage curve in to the x axis yields a point known as a holding voltage V. In order to exit the program mode the applied voltage to the chalcogenide memory cell must be less than the holding voltage V.

When programming a chalcogenide memory device it is critical to have an accurate distribution of write current with the correct amplitude in order to ensure uniform programming of all chalcogenide memory cells within the chalcogenide memory device. The read and write current networks are preferably separated within the chalcogenide memory device in order to allow independent trim controls and to prevent noise coupling from one operation to another.

Because of the importance of providing precise write current amplitude to chalcogenide memory cells multiple control options are required within a chalcogenide memory device. In the present embodiment an adjustable write pulse generator is utilized to generate multiple timing control signals and a write circuit is utilized to generate write signals for programming chalcogenide memory cells based on the timing control signals from the adjustable write pulse generator.

With reference now to there is depicted a block diagram of an adjustable write pulse generator in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. As shown an adjustable write pulse generator includes a band gap reference current circuit a programmable ring oscillator a frequency divider a single pulse generator and a control circuit . Band gap reference current circuit generates a well compensated current over a range of temperatures and supply voltages specifically designed for controlling the oscillation frequency of programmable ring oscillator over a given temperature range. In addition to pulse duration and shape the amplitude of write pulses allows the proper energy needed to program chalcogenide memory cells.

A series Write 0 W0 pulse signals i.e. f and write 1 W1 pulse signals i.e. f are separately transmitted from programmable ring oscillator to frequency divider . The output clock of programmable ring oscillator can be adjusted by input pins not shown based upon specific chalcogenide cell technology. Frequency divider in turn converts fand fsignals to fand fsignals respectively and the fand fsignals are then transmitted to single pulse generator . Single pulse generator provides a single W0 pulse signal and or a single W1 pulse signal of various pulse width according to control circuit .

Control circuit controls the duration shape and type of write pulse signals based on inputs such as a W0 pulse width input and a W1 pulse width input. For the present embodiment the one digit W0 pulse width input allows a W0 single pulse signal to be selected between two different pulse widths e.g. a 60 ns pulse width and a 120 ns pulse width. The two digit W1 pulse width input allows a W1 single pulse signal to be selected among four different pulse widths e.g. a 250 ns pulse width a 500 ns pulse width a 750 ns pulse width and a 1600 ns pulse width. The selectable W0 and W1 pulse width inputs allow discrete step calibration to satisfy the required pulse duration based on the energy requirement of a specific chalcogenide cell technology.

Under the control of control circuit single pulse generator generates a single pulse signal for both write polarities to provide timing information to various write circuits. The single W0 pulse signal and or a single W1 pulse signal from single pulse generator are subsequently sent to a write head within a write circuit shown in .

Frequency divider also divides the output signals of programmable ring oscillator into several distinct clock signals for example CLK CLK to be sent to a pulse shaping circuit within the write circuit shown in . The pulse shaping circuit then utilizes the clock signals to control the shape of W1 pulses needed for achieving the low impedance i.e. crystalline state in a chalcogenide memory cell during a write 1 operation.

Referring now to there is depicted a block diagram of a write circuit for providing distinctive write current to chalcogenide memory cells within a chalcogenide memory device in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. As shown a write circuit includes a current amplitude trim module a current amplification and distribution module and a write current shaping module i.e. write head . Write circuit provides a variety of trim and control options and the current applied to a chalcogenide memory cell is well compensated with a desired modulation across a specific temperature range.

Current amplitude trim module includes a band gap circuit and a current trim circuit . Currents from band gap circuit are well compensated across a wide range of temperatures voltage supplies and process corners. The current from band gap circuit is fed to current trim circuit .

Current trim circuit includes multiple current mirrors of various ratios such as current mirror 1 A to current mirror 1 M and multiple switches such as switches KKand switches Kto K. For the present embodiment current mirror 1 A is connected to ground while current mirror 1 B to current mirror 1 M are connected to a power supply Vpp where A M are integers. The power supply Vpp is different from a standard power supply Vdd.

Current trimming can be achieved by selectively connecting switches Kto Ksuch that different current amplitudes can be sent to current amplification and distribution module . By opening switch and closing switch K a write current having a slightly higher amplitude as compared to standard write pulses and a very long trailing edge can be supplied to convert the chalcogenide material and its surrounding volume within chalcogenide memory cell from a hexagonal polycrystalline lattice structure to a face centered cubic polycrystalline lattice structure. As a result the chalcogenide material within chalcogenide memory cell is conditioned and the dynamic range of chalcogenide memory cell is improved 

Current amplification and distribution module is essentially a write current distribution network composed of multiple current mirrors of different ratios such as current mirror 1 N current mirror 1 L and current mirror 1 P. Current mirror 1 L is connected to power supply Vpp and current mirrors 1 N 1 P are connected to ground. Current mirrors 1 N 1 L and 1 P have different amplification abilities and the overall current amplification meets the requirement of chalcogenide memory cell . Cascoded transistors are used in the current mirrors 1 N 1 L and 1 P in order to achieve better compensation through the distribution network of current amplification and distribution module .

Write current shaping module includes a write bit switch WBS a WBS bias circuit and a write head circuit having switches S S along with a related control circuit. Switches S S which are connected to power supply Vpp can be shared by an M N array referred to as a data bit. By controlling the opening and closing of switches S S the current from current amplification and distribution module is modulated which allows write current shaping module to supply an appropriate amount of write 0 current or write 1 current write 1 current has a lower amplitude than write 0 current to chalcogenide memory cell . Cascoded transistors are used in write current shaping module for better compensation.

WBS bias circuit is utilized to keep the column select transistor in saturation to achieve better compensation across a wide range of temperatures supply voltages and process corners.

Since write head circuit is connected to a separate power supply Vpp thus even if the Vpp supply is driven to ground chalcogenide memory device can enter a fail safe read only mode in which all write operations are prohibited due to absence of a high current through chalcogenide memory cell . The separate power supply Vpp for write head circuit provides write protection that is very desirable for memory devices designed for space and military applications.

As has been described the present invention provides an adjustable write pulse generator within a chalcogenide memory device.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

