---

title: Remote device communication platform
abstract: Managing via a web portal a remote device from a source device connected to a communication network. A device ID is assigned to the remote device, and a remote management software for remote management of the remote device is not installed on the source device or the remote device. Based on the assigned device ID, a connection is established with the remote device via the communication network. A first instruction is received from a user for authenticating access to the web portal. The user is authenticated in response to the received first instruction. An online status is established for the authenticated user. A second instruction is received from the authenticated user requesting access to the remote device. The device ID of the remote device is validated. The validated device ID is associated with the authenticated user. A connection is established between the remote device and the web portal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08789151&OS=08789151&RS=08789151
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08789151
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080109
---
This application is related to a co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 971 421 entitled REMOTE DEVICE COMMUNICATION PLATFORM USER INTERFACE filed Jan. 9 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Personal computing devices are transforming how individuals live their lives in the 21century. Personal computers laptop computers personal digital assistants PDA cellular phones or other devices continue to assist individuals from extensive experiences in electronic document creations electronic media communications multimedia enjoyments or the like. Furthermore software programs installed in these devices further expand the scope of functionalities in these devices. In addition users constantly store digital information and data on these devices for quick access and retrieval.

As users store information on the devices it becomes important for users to be able to remotely access different devices. For example a user who is working from home at a home computer may wish to access a work computer in his or her office. Currently various technologies are available that use the Internet to connect these two computers. Typically these systems would require that both the source computer e.g. home computer and the destination computer e.g. work computer install a proprietary software program. Once the software is installed the user needs to ensure that the destination computer is turned on and is connected to the Internet. The user next is situated at the source computer and executes the installed software to establish a connection between the source computer and the destination computer. This connection enables the user to access and retrieve information from the destination computer while the user is physically present at a location of the source computer.

While these existing technologies facilitate the users to enable a remote access of a remote device these technologies continue to require that a connection software is required to install on either the source computer or the destination computer or both before such direct connection is possible.

Embodiments of the invention overcome the deficiencies of technologies by establishing a direct connection between a source computer and a destination computer without a client side or remote management software installed on the remote device or the source device for remote management of the remote device from the source device. Aspects of the invention present a straight forward and efficient platform for first registering a device under a user s online account. The user s online account is maintained by a server and is accessible via an internet browser. The user may travel to various locations remote from the registered device and log into the user s online account from any available Internet connected device. Once the user is logged on the user may conveniently select the registered device and access retrieve information or data stored in the registered device.

This Summary presents a simplified disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of embodiments of the invention to the reader. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure and provides an introduction to a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key or critical features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts disclosed herein in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the invention improve on existing remote device management systems and technologies by providing a convenient remote device management system based on the internet and a web portal. In one embodiment a management of remote devices involves accessing retrieving and or modification of data or information of a remote device. In one example the management may include servicing such as repair troubleshooting or the like by someone remotely located from the remote device. In another example management includes performing activities as if a user is physically at the location of the remote device.

The system includes an interface for interacting the main server with one or more users such as a user . For example the interface may be a user interface UI or a graphical user interface GUI that receives instructions or commands from the user for activating or operating programs or services available on the main server the activation server and or the authentication server . In the example where the main server is or is part of a web server the interface may be a web page or a web portal providing a number of services to the user . In another embodiment the interface is associated with an online account of the user and the online account is hosted or provided by the main server . In one example the online account may include an electronic e mail e mail of the user a personalized information page of the user an instant messaging account associated with the user or the like. See also .

Initially the user has one or more devices to operate for the user s needs. For example the user may have a computing device at home a computing device at work a portable device such as a PDA or a cellular phone storing his personal contact information and or multimedia files. While some of these devices are portable some of the devices are not and thus require a physical presence at a location of the device in order to access the information or data stored therein. Alternatively the user may request someone else who is currently at the location of the devices to help the user access the desirable information. However in certain situations this is not desirable due to sensitive information or that the person may not be knowledgeable in operating the computing device. For example the remote device is to be serviced remotely and the person locating at the location of the remote device may have limited or no knowledge of the remote device that is helpful to the user . Therefore it is desirable for the user to have a remote access of devices when the user is physically remote to the devices.

Currently systems typically require the user to install client software or a client side or a remote management application program on either a source device or a destination device or both before such access is allowed. For example the source device is a device located at the location of the user e.g. location and the remote device is located at a location e.g. location that is remote with respect to the location . Based on these limitations in the existing technologies once the client side or remote management application is installed or activated the user may start the remote access of the remote device from the source device .

Aspects of the invention enable a convenient web based remote device management system without requiring the user to install a client side or remote management application on either the source device or the remote device . Embodiments of the invention enable the user associate or add one or more devices to the an online account associated with the user such that the user may access the remote devices via a web portal or web page through an internet browser from any location.

Referring now to an exemplary block diagram illustrates processes within a system of a web based remote device management according to an embodiment of the invention. Initially the user wishes to have access to the remote device while being physically away from the remote device . Therefore at A the user initiates a request to add or associate the remote device with an online account or a web portal of the user . The request from the user is sent to the activation server for receiving a device identification ID associated with the remote device . For example the device ID may be an identifier of the device unique to other devices managed or controlled by the user. The activation server next transmits the device ID to the remote device at B and the remote device may acknowledge the receipt of the device ID at C.

Once the activation server receives the acknowledgement from the remote device that the device ID has been received a connection is made between the activation server and the remote device at C. In one example it is presumed that the remote device is operable i.e. the remote device is turned on and is capable of a connection via the network to the activation server . Also the user may initially be physically present at the location .

In one embodiment the connection between the activation server and the remote device represents an availability of the remote device to the user when the user logs on or signs into the online account or the web portal of the user . As such the connection represents an online status of the remote device .

Once the remote device is connected the user in the meantime may have traveled to the location which is remote with respect to the location . The user then wishes to access information or data stored on the remote device remotely such as at the location . Hence the user operates an internet browser to access the interface and requests access to the remote device to the main server at D. The main server may next forward the request to the authentication server at D for authenticating the user . At D the authentication server may further forward the request to the activation server for verifying the remote device is a device that can be accessed by the user . For example the authentication process between the main server and the authentication server may include a series of authentication transactions such as sending a request from the main server to the authentication server sending a challenge from the authentication server to the main server sending a challenge response from the main server to the authentication server or the like. It is to be understood that other authentication methods or challenge response methods may be employed without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention. Similarly the validation of the device ID by the activation server may also involve a series of validation steps. During this process the user may also need to supply the proper credentials for being authenticated by the main server or the authentication server at E and F.

Once the user is authenticated the user obtains an online status and the remote device is also accessible to the user as a result of being validated. At G the user is able to view the remote device being online and accessible by the user on the interface . The user may further select the remote device at G to be connected to the remote device and the remote device establishes a connection with the interface and its content thereof is accessible by the user at the source device at H. In other words the user is now able to access the remote device through the interface without having any client side remote management software installed on either the source device or the remote device . In one embodiment the remote device may be presented as a folder or a directory on the interface .

In one embodiment as the user continues to access information or data stored on the remote device at I the connection between the interface and the remote device is periodically updated or monitored. For example to ensure the smooth access of the information or data on the remote device the main server may maintain a certain bandwidth for the connection between the remote device and the main server .

In another embodiment the user may further invite add or associate another user to access the remote device . For example the user at J may submit a request to add a second user to access the remote device from another location. The main server upon receiving the request may further authenticate the second user and register the second user on the interface i.e. the online account of the user to enable the second user to access the remote device . In another embodiment the user and the second user may share the access of the remote device or share the data of the remote device when accessing the remote device . In a further alternative embodiment the user may register the second user as part of a membership list which enables its members by providing access rights to the remote device or other devices associated with the interface of the user . For example suppose the user is relying on his or her child for properly maintaining and troubleshooting the remote device of the user . As such the user may add the child of the user to the interface and registers the child on the member list. Alternative the user may further issue an authentication ticket for the child such that the second user may continuously access the remote device absent a termination request from the user . The child may then periodically access the remote device of the user to perform various maintenance or troubleshooting operations on behalf of the user .

Alternative embodiments further include defining or establishing an access context of the remote device . For example the access context of the remote device may include a machine context and a user context. In one example the machine context may include accesses to a full or complete access of the remote device . For example as known to those skills in the art a computing device may be defined to have an administrator access that has high privilege rights in editing or modifying various system settings policies controls or the like. On the other hand there are also various kinds of user access level where a user is given access rights or privileges less than the administrator access. Aspects of the invention take into account of these access rights and in enabling access to the remote device enable to establish the proper type of access level to the user or other users. For example a user may only have a limited privilege or access to a user run application while an administrator may have full access such as read write edit or the like to all files within the remote device .

As such aspects of the invention provide a straight forward remote access or management platform using a web based interface. Embodiments of the invention eliminate the need for installing any client side or remote management application or software for enabling the remote device management and control. Furthermore aspects of the invention streamline the setup and access process of the remote device using the interface or the web portal . Moreover if the user already establishes an online account with the main server aspects of the invention can be seamlessly incorporated into the user s existing account and truly be connected to the user s various devices at any time and anywhere.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrates operations of a web based remote device management according to an embodiment of the invention. At a device ID is assigned to a remote device without a client side or remote management software installed on the remote device for remote management. Based on the assigned device ID a connection is established with the remote device via a communication network such as the network at . At a first instruction is received from a user for authenticating access to a web portal or an interface. The received instruction is originating from the source device. At the user is authenticated in response to the received first instruction. At an online status is established for the authenticated user. A second instruction is received from the authenticated user requesting access to the remote device for remote management through the web portal at . At the device ID of the remote device is validated in response to receiving the second instruction requesting access. At the validated device ID is associated with the authenticated user. A connection is established between the remote device and the web portal and the remote device is accessible to the authenticated user via the web portal.

The computer typically has at least some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media which include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media may be any available medium that may be accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store the desired information and that may be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. Those skilled in the art are familiar with the modulated data signal which has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. Wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media are examples of communication media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of removable and or non removable volatile and or nonvolatile memory. In the illustrated embodiment system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. For example illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media. also shows a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that may be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives or other mass storage devices and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components may either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into computer through input devices or user interface selection devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball pen or touch pad . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are connected to processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a Universal Serial Bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers often include other peripheral output devices not shown such as a printer and speakers which may be connected through an output peripheral interface not shown .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. LAN and or WAN may be a wired network a wireless network a combination thereof and so on. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and global computer networks e.g. the Internet .

When used in a local area networking environment computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a wide area networking environment computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to computer or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device not shown . By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on the memory device. The network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Generally the data processors of computer are programmed by means of instructions stored at different times in the various computer readable storage media of the computer. Programs and operating systems are typically distributed for example on floppy disks or CD ROMs. From there they are installed or loaded into the secondary memory of a computer. At execution they are loaded at least partially into the computer s primary electronic memory. Aspects of the invention described herein includes these and other various types of computer readable storage media when such media contain instructions or programs for implementing the steps described below in conjunction with a microprocessor or other data processor. Further aspects of the invention include the computer itself when programmed according to the methods and techniques described herein.

For purposes of illustration programs and other executable program components such as the operating system are illustrated herein as discrete blocks. It is recognized however that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components of the computer and are executed by the data processor s of the computer.

Although described in connection with an exemplary computing system environment including computer embodiments of the invention are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. The computing system environment is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of any aspect of the invention. Moreover the computing system environment should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary operating environment. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with aspects of the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics mobile telephones network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments of the invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include but are not limited to routines programs objects components and data structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Aspects of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

An interface in the context of a software architecture includes a software module component code portion or other sequence of computer executable instructions. The interface includes for example a first module accessing a second module to perform computing tasks on behalf of the first module. The first and second modules include in one example application programming interfaces APIs such as provided by operating systems component object model COM interfaces e.g. for peer to peer application communication and extensible markup language metadata interchange format XMI interfaces e.g. for communication between web services .

The interface may be a tightly coupled synchronous implementation such as in Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition J2EE COM or distributed COM DCOM examples. Alternatively or in addition the interface may be a loosely coupled asynchronous implementation such as in a web service e.g. using the simple object access protocol . In general the interface includes any combination of the following characteristics tightly coupled loosely coupled synchronous and asynchronous. Further the interface may conform to a standard protocol a proprietary protocol or any combination of standard and proprietary protocols.

The interfaces described herein may all be part of a single interface or may be implemented as separate interfaces or any combination therein. The interfaces may execute locally or remotely to provide functionality. Further the interfaces may include additional or less functionality than illustrated or described herein.

In operation computer executes computer executable instructions such as those illustrated in the figures to implement aspects of the invention.

The order of execution or performance of the operations in embodiments of the invention illustrated and described herein is not essential unless otherwise specified. That is the operations may be performed in any order unless otherwise specified and embodiments of the invention may include additional or fewer operations than those disclosed herein. For example it is contemplated that executing or performing a particular operation before contemporaneously with or after another operation is within the scope of aspects of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented with computer executable instructions. The computer executable instructions may be organized into one or more computer executable components or modules. Aspects of the invention may be implemented with any number and organization of such components or modules. For example aspects of the invention are not limited to the specific computer executable instructions or the specific components or modules illustrated in the figures and described herein. Other embodiments of the invention may include different computer executable instructions or components having more or less functionality than illustrated and described herein.

When introducing elements of aspects of the invention or the embodiments thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Having described aspects of the invention in detail it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention as defined in the appended claims. As various changes could be made in the above constructions products and methods without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

