---

title: Microfabricated linear Paul-Straubel ion trap
abstract: An array of microfabricated linear Paul-Straubel ion traps can be used for mass spectrometric applications. Each ion trap comprises two parallel inner RF electrodes and two parallel outer DC control electrodes symmetric about a central trap axis and suspended over an opening in a substrate. Neighboring ion traps in the array can share a common outer DC control electrode. The ions confined transversely by an RF quadrupole electric field potential well on the ion trap axis. The array can trap a wide array of ions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07928375&OS=07928375&RS=07928375
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 07928375
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081021
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 982 160 filed Oct. 24 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to mass spectrometry and in particular to microfabricated linear Paul Straubel ion trap that can be used to trap and filter gaseous ions.

A mass spectrometer MS is a device that filters gaseous ions according to their mass to charge m z ratio and measures the relative abundance of each ionic species. Mass spectrometry is particularly attractive for in situ analysis due to its inherent speed excellent sensitivity molecular selectivity and capability for continuous real time measurements. A typical mass spectrometer comprises an ion source wherein the ions are generated a mass filter wherein the ions are separated in space or in time an ion detector wherein the filtered ions are collected and their relative ion abundance measured a vacuum system and means to power the spectrometer. Depending on the type of sample and the method of introducing the sample into the mass spectrometer ions can be generated in the ion source by electron impact ionization photoionization thermal ionization chemical ionization desorption ionization spray ionization or other processes. Mass spectrometers are generally classified according to the method on which mass filtering is accomplished using electric and or magnetic fields. Mass filter types include magnetic sector time of flight linear quadrupole ion cyclotron resonance and ion traps. Detection of ions is typically accomplished by a single point ion collector such as a Faraday cup or electronic multiplier or a multipoint collector such as an array or microchannel plate collector whereby all of the ions arrive at the collector simultaneously.

Mass spectrometer performance is generally given in terms of mass range resolution i.e. resolving power and sensitivity of the instrument. Mass range is the lowest and highest masses that can be measured. A large mass range is desired for the analysis of high molecular weight organic and biological analytes. Resolution measures the ability of the instrument to separate and identify ions of slightly different masses. Typically the resolution for singly charged ions is given by

Mass spectrometers can be used for chemical sensing. A pulse of sample gas can be injected directly into the ion source of the mass spectrometer. However analyzing mixtures may be difficult when the mass spectrometer is used alone since the resulting mass spectrum would be a complex summation of the spectra of the individual components. Therefore analytical techniques combining the separation methods of gas chromatography and mass spectrometry are often used for chemical sensing. A gas chromatograph GC separates volatile mixtures into their component chemical species which are eluted from a long capillary. The eluents can then be transferred into a mass spectrometer to obtain a mass spectrum of each of the separated components from which the molecular structure of the individual component species can be inferred. The GC MS is therefore capable of separating highly complex mixtures identifying the components and quantifying their amounts. Alternatively tandem MS MS or multistage MS mass spectrometers can be combined wherein one of the mass spectrometers is used to isolate individual ions according to their m z ratio and the other is used to examine the fragmentation products of the individual ions. Thus multiple stages of mass analysis can be obtained in a single analyzer.

Recently there has been a growing interest in miniature mass spectrometers that enable reduced size power requirements vacuum system demands cost and complexity. In particular a microfabricated mass spectrometer combined with a microfabricated GC would enable a very attractive portable handheld microanalytical system. Such a chemical laboratory on a chip would enable the rapid and sensitive detection of particular chemicals including pollutants high explosives and chemical and biological warfare agents in the field.

Because magnetic separators do not scale well into the microstructure size range most microfabricated mass filters have performed separation using time varying electric fields i.e. Paul type traps . The 3D quadrupole ion trap QIT consists of two hyperbolic endcap electrodes with their foci facing each other and a hyperbolic ring electrode halfway between the two endcap electrodes. Ions are trapped in the space between these three electrodes by RF and DC electric fields. The QIT is well suited to miniaturization due to pressure intolerance and low voltage and power requirements. Cylindrical ion traps CIT comprising flat endcap electrodes and a cylindrical ring electrode have much simpler geometries than the QIT. Massive arrays of such CITs have been fabricated on a micro scale. See U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 870 158 and 7 154 088. However such CITs are difficult to fabricate on the micro scale require high RF driving powers and require unconventional ion detection schemes due to their relatively closed geometry.

The linear Paul ion trap is a two dimensional version of the 3D QIT. A quadruple mass spectrometers based on the conventional linear Paul trap filters ions by passing them through tuned radiofrequency RF and direct current DC electrical fields defined by four symmetrically spaced parallel rods within which a 2D quadrupole field is established. The QMS permits only those ions with a stable trajectory determined by their m z ratio to travel along the entire length of the central axis of the rod assembly without being deflected out of the intra rod space. Ions with different m z ratios can be scanned through the QMS by continuously varying the field between the quadrupole rods. Therefore the QMS is a variable bandpass filtering ion optic.

The QMS is relatively pressure tolerant and can operate effectively at relatively high pressures e.g. 10Torr . Therefore they are amenable to miniaturization due to the avoidance of bulky vacuum pumping systems. Miniature linear quadrupoles require lower drive voltages and higher RF drive frequencies to filter heavier ions and maintain resolution as the electrode dimensions decrease. Further the linear ion trap has much greater efficiency for trapping externally generated ions and much greater ion trapping capacity due to reduced space charge effects than 3D QITs of the same volume. However miniaturized linear ion traps require precise fabrication to maintain acceptable performance. See Z. Ouyang et al. 13 13 2007 .

Recently there has been interest in microfabricated versions of the linear ion trap for quantum computing QC . To increase the speed of QC operations there has been an effort to reduce the size of trap dimensions. This has lead to the development of a microfabricated surface electrode ion trap analog of the conventional four rod Paul ion trap. With the surface electrode ion trap all of the trap electrodes reside on a single surface with alternating flat RF and DC control electrodes and the ions are trapped above the surface plane. Ions are confined transversely to the null ion trap axis of the RF quadrupole electric field and axial confinement and ion transport operations are controlled by the DC electric field. For QC applications the control electrodes can be segmented along their length and appropriate static potentials can be applied to the different segments to enable longitudinal confinement of ions in a single trapping location and transportation of the ions between trapping locations. However ion trap depths of the surface electrode trap are very shallow not much above the mean kinetic energy of the ions. Therefore ion injection and trapping with a thermal ion source can be problematic. However shallow pseudopotential depths are tolerable for quantum computing applications which use laser cooling to initialize the internal state of the ions. See J. Chiaverini et al. 5 419 2005 S. Seidelin et al. 96 253003 2006 and C. E. Pearson et al. 73 032307 2006 .

Many of the requirements for micro scale ion traps for mass spectrometry differ from those for quantum computing. The basic requirements for a useful micro scale ion trap for mass spectrometry are an ionization method that enables ionizing many different atomic and molecular species such that nearly all component species in the sample can be ionized for analysis an ability to trap many target species to enable species identification and the determination of relative concentrations of all of the components in the sample and an ability to trap a large quantity of ions to enable direct detection of the ions with adequate sensitivity for analysis.

The present invention is directed to a microfabricated linear Paul Straubel ion trap array that satisfies these requirements for mass spectrometry in a small package.

The present invention is directed to a microfabricated linear Paul Straubel ion trap comprising a substrate having an opening therethrough a dielectric layer on the substrate and two parallel inner RF electrodes disposed on the dielectric layer and suspended over the opening in the substrate wherein an RF quadrupole electric field potential well is established on a trap axis in the plane between the RF electrodes when a radiofrequency potential is applied to the RF electrodes. Each RF electrode has a first end and a second end and the first ends can be electrically connected and the second ends can be electrically connected to form a rectangular structure. The ion trap can further comprise two parallel outer DC control electrodes deposed on opposite sides of the two parallel inner RF electrodes and symmetrically about the trap axis in the plane of the RF electrodes. At least one additional ion trap comprising two additional parallel inner RF electrodes and two parallel outer DC control electrodes deposed on opposite sides of the additional parallel inner RF electrodes and symmetrically about the additional trap axis wherein one of the outer DC control electrodes is a common DC outer electrode with a first trap can form an array of ion traps.

The planar micro ion trap array is specifically designed for mass spectrometry applications. Microfabrication techniques can be used to fabricate the planar rectangular Paul Straubel type ion trap over an opening in a substrate enabling ionization trapping ion accumulation and ion ejection that can be used for detection of atomic and or molecular ions. The substrate can comprise silicon the dielectric layer can comprise silicon nitride and the electrodes can comprise tungsten.

Any system that produces a point with a vanishing electrode field can potentially trap ions. The Paul Straubel ring trap consisting of a hollow ring and a pair of distant compensation electrodes has been demonstrated to trap ions with a more open structure than the conventional 3D QIT. A linear version of the 3D Paul Straubel ring trap consists of a pair of rods driven by the same RF applied voltage. This electrode configuration has a zero field line midway between the two rods. See N. Yu and W. Nagourney 77 8 3623 1995 G. R. Janik et al. 67 10 6050 1990 and C. A. Schrama et al. 101 32 1993 .

The present invention is directed to a microfabricated planar version of the two rod Paul Straubel ion trap comprising two inner parallel electrodes forming a rectangular electrode structure driven by an RF applied potential. Two outer parallel compensation electrodes on a common plane are driven by a DC control potential. A zero field line forms between the RF electrodes to provide an ion trapping zone in the plane. In a typical mass spectrometry application ions are created in situ via electron bombardment and the resulting ions are ejected towards an ion detector. Alternatively the ion trap can comprise three or five electrodes similar to the symmetric surface electrode traps used for quantum computing. However ions are trapped above the center DC electrode in such ion traps which can make ion ejection from the traps difficult when used for mass spectrometry.

Planar arrays of such ion traps can be fabricated on a substrate by micromachining techniques. The ion trap array provides a reasonably large trapping volume in a very small package. In particular the relatively simple planar geometry is easy to fabricate and the common DC electrodes enables a scalable array comprising a plurality of ion traps. Scalability is important for mass spectrometry applications since sensitivity is proportional to the number of ions trapped and detected.

The microfabricated ion trap array can be used in mass spectrometry applications. The ions can be created accumulated and stored in the ion trap array. The ions can then be ejected as a function of their mass. In a single stage mass spectrometer the resulting ions can be ejected to an ion detector. In a multistage mass spectrometer the ejected ions can be fed to a second stage mass spectrometer such as a quadrupole time of flight TOF or magnetic sector instrument. A microfabricated array based mass spectrometer preferably has reasonable sensitivity mass range and mass resolution for the desired application while maintaining a small volume and low power requirement. When used with a chemical laboratory on a chip a preconcentrator can be used to collect the sample of interest. The preconcentrator can release the collected sample as a pulse directly into the ion trap array or into an intervening GC column. The sample gas can be ionized in the trapping volume of the trap array. Ionization can occur for a period of time in which the ions can accumulate in the traps of the array. After accumulation the ions can be ejected from the trap as a function of the mass to charge ratio of the ions and detected directly by an ion detector such as a microchannel plate MCP .

A linear Paul Straubel ion trap array comprising a plurality of micro scale linear Paul Straubel ion traps can be monolithically fabricated on a substrate by surface micromachining techniques generally known to the IC manufacturing and MEMS industries. Preferably the ion trap array can be fabricated using a metal damascene process. Metal damascene is an inlaid process in which a trench is formed in a surface layer and a metal overfill is deposited into the trench. Preferably the metal damascene process comprises a molded tungsten process. A chemical mechanical polishing CMP step is used to re planarize the surface and isolate the metal in the trench. In is shown a cross sectional side view schematic illustration of a method to fabricate an array of ion traps over a through hole opening in a substrate. Only a single exemplary electrode of a multi electrode ion trap array is shown to illustrate the fabrication process.

In an insulating or semiconducting substrate is provided on which the structure of the ion trap array can be fabricated. The substrate is preferably a silicon on insulator SOI wafer for example comprising a base silicon layer of about 650 700 microns thickness a buried silicon oxide layer of about 4 microns thickness and a top silicon layer of about 50 microns thickness. A sacrificial layer is deposited on the substrate to provide for a material layer that can be etched away in later processing steps. For example the sacrificial layer can be about 1 micron of silicon dioxide SiO . The sacrificial layer can then be patterned to remove the sacrificial material from the surface where the through hole opening is to be formed in the dielectric layer .

In a dielectric isolation layer is deposited on the substrate to provide for electrical isolation of the electrode from the substrate in the final electrode structure and for an etch stop. Low stress silicon nitride SiN is a dielectric material with good mechanical properties that is compatible with IC processing steps. Therefore the dielectric isolation layer preferably comprises low stress silicon nitride e.g. about 1 micron thickness deposited by chemical vapor deposition CVD .

In another sacrificial layer e.g. 3 micron thick silicon dioxide can then be deposited on the patterned silicon nitride layer and planarized.

In the sacrificial layer can be patterned to form through vias for the electrode anchors . An anisotropic etching process e.g. reactive ion etching directed normal to the surface can be used to etch the vias down through the sacrificial layer to the dielectric layer . The vias should be deep enough to prevent the suspended electrode from collapsing following release of the ion trap structure.

In the vias in the patterned sacrificial layer are backfilled by a blanket deposition of an excess of electrode material. The electrode material is preferably a good electrical conductor with a small RF skin depth such as tungsten aluminum copper titanium nitride nickel chromium or other interconnect metal that has sufficient structural strength to span the opening in the substrate. For example the electrode material can be tungsten that is chemical vapor deposited at high pressure from WFand H. Because CVD tungsten does not adhere to silicon dioxide the CVD tungsten can be grown on a 25 nm TiN adhesion layer deposited by reactive sputtering on the patterned sacrificial oxide layer. The excess tungsten is removed and the surface of the filled patterned sacrificial layer to provide the electrode anchors . The surface can be planarized by CMP.

In another layer of sacrificial material is deposited on the electrode anchor layer and patterned to define an opening for the RF or DC electrodes . A photolithographic etch mask can again be used to pattern the sacrificial oxide layer.

In the patterned sacrificial layer is backfilled with the structural electrode material e.g. CVD tungsten and planarized.

In the exposed sacrificial material can be removed by etching in a selective etchant to expose the electrodes anchored to the dielectric layer . For example sacrificial oxide can be removed by etching with a HF solution with etches SiO but not W SiN or Si.

In a thin electrically conducting layer can be blanket deposited over the front side of the exposed structure to lower the resistance of the device and create a conductive ground plane that prevents the underlying dielectric layer from being seen by the ions. The conducting layer can be thermally evaporated Al 5 Cu.

In an opening for the suspended electrodes can be formed by back side etching of the substrate. For example either Bosch etching or KOH etching can be used to etch through the silicon wafer and stop on the silicon dioxide layer.

In the remaining exposed sacrificial oxide material can be removed using a wet chemical etchant to release the device and provide an array of ion trap electrodes suspended over the opening in the etched substrate .

In the back side of the released device can be coated with a thin conducting layer to create a grounded region and eliminate exposed dielectric materials. The conducting layer can be a gold layer that is thermally evaporated onto the back side of the device.

Proof of concept experiments were conducted to demonstrate the ability of the ion trap array to trap room temperature ions. The ion trap array comprised seven parallel linear Paul Straubel ion traps suspended over an opening in a silicon chip that was fabricated according to the method described above. The opening in the chip was 2.2 mm by 3.8 mm. The electrodes were suspended over the opening to allow for ejection of the ions from the trapping zones for ion detection. Along the axial direction of the trap each RF and DC electrode was approximately 2.2 mm in length 10 microns in width and 2 microns in thickness. Each of the seven trapping zones had an RF electrode to RF electrode separation of 100 microns and DC electrodes spaced 75 microns outside of the RF electrodes. Alternatively the array can comprise asymmetric traps arrays in which the RF electrode separations differ to alter the m z trapping properties of the traps on a chip with a common RF applied voltage. The seven trapping zones share DC electrodes with the exception of the DC electrodes of the outer most trapping zones which are not shared. The applied RF voltage was 100 V amplitude RF ground to maximum and the resonance frequency was 27 MHz. The DC electrodes were held at RF ground.

The target gases used in these experiments were krypton and nitrogen. Krypton has an atomic mass of approximately 84 and contains several nuclear isotopes. Nitrogen is a diatomic molecule of mass 28. The target gas was introduced to the ion trap array from a research grade lecture bottle via a gas handling manifold and an adjustable leak valve. Before introduction of the target gas the vacuum chamber had a base pressure of approximately 2 10Torr consisting primarily of residual hydrogen water nitrogen oxygen and carbon dioxide as measured using a residual gas analyzer RGA . A typical RGA scan of the chamber without a target gas present is shown in . After the target gas was introduced the pressure of the chamber rose to approximately 3 10Torr. A typical RGA scan of the vacuum system with krypton present is shown in . During the experiment the target gas was continuously passed into the chamber containing the array.

Electron impact ionization was used to produce ions from the target gas. Electron impact ionization is a reasonably efficient method of ionization that is general enough for ionizing most atoms and molecules. Tabulations of the electron impact ionization cross sections and fragmentation species exist for many atoms and molecules. shows the electron impact ionization cross section for singly ionized krypton. See Wetzel R. C. et al. 35 2 559 1987 . The maximum ion production rate is at about 75 eV and slowly decreases as the electron impact energy increases. The electron impact ionization cross section for N is very similar in form and magnitude.

Since the ion trap depth is very shallow the ions must be produced inside the trapping volume of the ion traps to be successfully trapped. The trapping volume is determined by the geometry of the traps and the applied RF and DC voltages. In these experiments ions were produce with the RF voltage being applied to the trap. The presence of the RF alters the effective energy of the ionizing electrons thereby affecting the ion production rate. A simple model was developed to illustrate the effect of RF voltage on the ion production rate. In this model the energy of the electron beam was 150 eV the RF amplitude was 50 V and frequency was 50 MHz the target gas partial pressure was 1 10Torr and ionization length was 1 mm. shows the model result for the singly ionized krypton production rate without the RF applied. shows the model result for the singly ionized krypton production rate with the RF voltage applied.

A series of steps were taken to ensure electrons can ionize the target gas inside of the trapping volume. First the electron beam was focused such that the focal point of the beam was at the trap chip opening. Second the electron beam was rastered and the count rate of the CEM was monitored to determine the best x and y deflections to center the electron beam in the trap. Finally the rastering of the electron beam was repeated under differing beam focus conditions to determine a focus condition that flooded the majority of the trap with electrons. Shown in are two examples of beam profiles collected in the rastering process. shows the ideal focus having the smallest waist of the beam passing through the trap. This focus has a round profile that essentially traces the detector entrance. shows a focus that floods the majority of the trap and has a rectangular profile that is the profile of the opening on the trap chip.

A 150 eV electron beam was used in these experiments that was focused in a manner such that a large portion of the trap was in the electron beam path. Additionally deflection voltages were determined to center the beam on the trap. For these experiments the electron beam was on for 500 microseconds. Ions were produced during the on period and some fraction of the ions produced were trapped. After the 10 microsecond on period the electron beam was turned off. 

A helical resonator circuit was built to effectively couple RF power to the ion trap array. For these experiments an arbitrary waveform generator supplied a sine wave to a RF amplifier that fed the amplified RF to a helical resonator. The arbitrary waveform generator was configured to deliver a 27 MHz sine wave with amplitude of 0.3 V peak to peak. The RF power amplifier was set to deliver a RF signal to the helical resonator with 1 watt of power and an extraction pulse of 500 V was applied across a pair of grids surrounding the trap to extract ions for detection. The relationship between the voltage applied to the ion trap electrodes the Q of the trap system and the RF power applied to the resonator is 12 25 where V is the amplitude of the applied RF P is the applied power in watts Q is the quality factor and is a value that ranges from 12 to 25 as found in the literature. The voltage applied to the RF electrodes of the trap is an important consideration for both the trap depth which determines the trapping stability for the various m z ions species and for the ion production rate.

After a period of time in which the ions were created and accumulated in the trap a high voltage pulse was applied to a grid above the trap forcing the ejection of ions toward the CEM detector. The time of flight of the charged particles from the trap to the detector is a function of the mass to charge ratio of the ions and the voltage of the extraction pulse applied to the grid. The pulse width of the extraction pulse was 10 microsecond with an extraction voltage of 500 V having an approximately 100 ns rise time. The transmission efficiency of the extraction grid was approximately 77.4 .

The ejected ions were detected with the CEM operating in a single particle detection mode. Each particle that impinged on the detector resulted in one count in a timing bin collected on a multi channel scalar. The various timing bins of the multi channel scalar are a discrete representation of the time of flight of the ions from the time the extraction pulse is applied to the time of ion detection. In these experiments each bin was 5 ns wide and 1024 bins were scanned sequentially for each repetition of the experiments.

The sequences of events for a given experimental run was as follows. Electrons were passed through the trap for 500 microseconds. During this time the target gas was ionized and the trap RF power was on causing the ions to accumulate in the trap. After the electron beam was turned off the RF remained on for a period of time greater than 100 microseconds. During this period the trapped ions were held in the trap and the non trapped ions were allowed to neutralize. After the hold time the RF was turned off and a 500 V extraction pulse was applied sweeping the trapped ions from the trap towards the charged particle detector. Each ion that impinged on the detector resulted in a pulse that was counted as a function of the time of arrival at the detector using the CEM. This procedure resulted in a time of flight spectrum that demonstrates the ability of this device to trap thermal ions.

Time of flight spectra for krypton and nitrogen target gases were obtained using the ion trap array chip. The spectra were obtained from a typical trapping experiment as described above whereby data was collected with trap off and trap on whilst holding the other experimental parameters essentially constant. Background was collected with krypton in the system with the electron gun on and with the extraction pulses operating but with no RF potential applied to the trap. This procedure allowed the background signal from the small number of non trapped residual ions to be removed from the trapped ion signal that was obtained under the same conditions but with RF applied to the trap. The background signal was primarily random noise. The statistical significance of the ion peak in the spectra remained after the background subtraction. show the trapping spectra for nitrogen and krypton respectively. The broad peaks are associated with ions being detected while the very narrow peaks are systematic noise found in the experimental test setup primarily due to an impedance mismatch between the extraction grids and the extraction pulse source. These results demonstrate the ability of the microfabricated ion trap array to trap a broad mass range of ions.

The present invention has been described as a microfabricated linear Paul Straubel ion trap. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

