---

title: Market sentiment indicator
abstract: A method and system for determining and displaying market sentiment information is disclosed. The method may include obtaining customer opening option activity information from an order routing system database, excluding spread transactions from the customer opening option activity information, calculating a sum of buy call trades and sell put trades from the customer opening option activity information, calculating a total number of customer trades from the customer opening option activity information and dividing the sum of buy call trades and sell put trades by the total number of customer trades to calculate an indicator value. The indicator value may be recalculated every N period until an end of a trading day using all trades through the N period in the trading day.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08108290&OS=08108290&RS=08108290
owner: Chicago Board Options Exchange, Incorporated
number: 08108290
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080213
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 890 093 pending filed Feb. 15 2007 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates to derivative investment markets. More particularly the present disclosure relates to methods of determining and displaying indicators of market sentiment in a system of trading securities or derivatives.

A derivative is a financial security whose value is derived in part from a value or characteristic of another security known as an underlying asset. Two exemplary well known derivatives are options and futures.

An option is a contract giving a holder of the option a right but not an obligation to buy or sell an underlying asset at a specific price on or before a certain date. Generally a party who purchases an option is referred to as the holder of the option and a party who sells an option is referred to as the writer of the option.

There are generally two types of options call options and put options. A holder of a call option receives a right to purchase an underlying asset at a specific price known as the strike price such that if the holder exercises the call option the writer is obligated to deliver the underlying asset to the holder at the strike price. Alternatively the holder of a put option receives a right to sell an underlying asset at a specific price referred to as the strike price such that if the holder exercises the put option the writer is obligated to purchase the underlying asset at the agreed upon strike price. Thus the settlement process for an option involves the transfer of funds from the purchaser of the underlying asset to the seller and the transfer of the underlying asset from the seller of the underlying asset to the purchaser. This type of settlement may be referred to as in kind settlement. However an underlying asset of an option does not need to be tangible transferable property.

Options may also be based on more abstract market indicators such as stock indices interest rates futures contracts and other derivatives. In these cases in kind settlement may not be desired or in kind settlement may not be possible because delivering the underlying asset is not possible. Therefore cash settlement is employed. Using cash settlement a holder of an index call option receives the right to purchase not the index itself but rather a cash amount equal to the value of the index multiplied by a multiplier such as 100. Thus if a holder of an index call option elects to exercise the option the writer of the option is obligated to pay the holder the difference between the current value of the index and the strike price multiplied by the multiplier. If the current value of the index is less than or equal to the strike price the option is worthless due to the fact the holder would realize a loss.

With the development of electronic trading systems it is critical to have the ability to make appropriate entry and exit decisions quickly to maximize profits while minimizing losses. This is particularly the case with options trading. In addition when investors trade the live market without any trend indication relative to the stock or option being traded they may not be trading with the market sentiment. As each option has a particular strike price and an expiration date timing is critical in an investor s success. Lacking access to the proper investment instruments an investor may spend precious time in an effort to calculate market sentiment in order to obtain an indication of same.

Therefore there is a need for a method for determining an indicator of market sentiment and for displaying such an indicator to investors for use in formulating trading strategies.

In order to address the need for a method for determining and displaying an indicator of market sentiment a method is disclosed herein that provides for the calculation of an indicator of market sentiment.

According to a first aspect a method for determining market sentiment includes receiving option activity information from an order routing system calculating a sum of buy call contract volume and sell put contract volume from the option activity information and calculating a total amount of contract volume from the option activity information. The method also includes generating an indicator value representing market sentiment based on the sum of buy call contract volume and sell put contract volume and based on the total amount of contract volume and displaying the indicator value on a display.

In another aspect computer readable medium is disclosed having processor executable instructions for determining an indicator of market sentiment where the instructions are configured to cause a processor to calculate a sum of buy call contract volume and sell put contract volume from the option activity information and calculate a total amount of contract volume from the option activity information. The instructions are also configured to cause a processor to generate an indicator value representing market sentiment based on the sum of buy call contract volume and sell put contract volume and based on the total amount of contract volume and display the indicator value on a display.

In another aspect a system for determining market sentiment at an exchange is disclosed. The system includes an interface adapted receive option activity information from an order routing system and a processor in communication with the interface. The processor is configured to calculate a sum of buy call contract volume and sell put contract volume from the option activity information calculate a total amount of contract volume from the option activity information generate an indicator value representing market sentiment based on the sum of buy call contract volume and sell put contract volume and based on the total amount of contract volume and then transmit the indicator value for display.

In another aspect a method for determining market sentiment includes receiving option activity information from an order routing system calculating a sum of buy call activity and sell put activity from the option activity information calculating a total amount of option activity from the option activity information and generating an indicator value representing market sentiment based on the sum of buy call activity and sell put activity and based on the total amount of option activity. The method further includes displaying the indicator value on a display. In one implementation the buy call activity and sell put activity may be the sum of customer buy call trades and customer sell put trades and the total amount of option activity may be a total number of customer trades exclusive of all spread transactions and professional orders.

A method for determining and displaying an indicator of market sentiment is described herein. The indicator may be based upon customer opening option activity excluding spread transactions. As detailed herein indicator values are generated using either a number of customer trades or volume of customer trades. The indicator values may be calculated by product type such as equity or index and exchange total such as the total on the Chicago Board Options Exchange.

Orders may be entered into the ORS from remote member firm systems from member firm s booths physically located at the exchange system and from market makers present on the trading floor of the exchange. The member firm systems may be located remotely from the geographical location of the exchange and use any of a number of standard landline or wireless communication networks to direct orders electronically to the ORS . The member firm systems communicate with one of several interfaces or protocols for transmitting their orders to the ORS . Examples of suitable interfaces are those using a distributed object interface based on the CORBA standard and available from the Object Management Group. Interfaces such as financial information exchange FIX which is a message based protocol implemented over TCP IP available from FIX Protocol Ltd. or other known securities transaction communication protocols are also suitable protocols. In some instances orders may even be made by telephone calls or facsimile transmissions directly to the booths of member firms at the exchange. Orders submitted from a booth at the exchange may come from a booth entry and routing system BERS or a booth automated routing terminal BART .

The BERS is a computer workstation that provides firm staff members at the booth with an entry template and a graphic user interface with a number of function buttons arranged on the display. Orders entered at the booth through BERS typically consist of orders that were telephoned to the booth and orders that were wired to member firm owned house printers in the booth. The orders entered through BERS are entered manually by booth staff using an order template and graphic user interface on the workstation. Generally an order entered at BERS will be routed to the ORS . Member firms however may specify that a particular order entered through BERS be routed to the BART device. The BART device sometimes referred to as the electronic runner allows member firms to maintain more control over their order flow. BART allows each firm to customize certain ORS parameters to route a certain portion of their order flow to the firm booth.

As with the BERS BART may be implemented on a touch screen workstation located in the member firm booth. The BART operator at the booth may electronically forward orders to desired destinations. Potential destinations for these booth routed orders are the ORS the electronic trade engine in communication with the ORS or the public automated routing PAR system used by the floor brokers at the exchange. The PAR system may be implemented as a PC based touch screen order routing and execution system accessible by floor brokers on the floor of the exchange. The PAR system terminals allow a floor broker to select an order from the workstation and receive an electronic trading card on which the floor broker may enter trade information such as its volume price opposing market makers etc. When a floor broker completes a card the floor broker can then execute a trade electronically with the touch of a finger on the touch screen interface. The PAR system then transmits the completed order also referred to as a fill back to the ORS . The PAR may be a fixed workstation or a mobile workstation in the form of a hand held unit.

Market makers on the floor of the exchange may enter quotes and orders via electronic devices such as hand held market maker terminals MMT . The MMT may be any of a number of electronic hand held devices capable of communicating with the electronic trade engine and ORS through an application programming interface API such as FIX version 4.2 or CMi an API available from Chicago Board Options Exchange Incorporated of Chicago Ill. An example of a suitable handheld device is the Fujitsu Stylistic 3500 available from Fujitsu Ltd. of Tokyo Japan.

When a trade is completed whether on the floor in open outcry and entered into PAR or automatically executed through the electronic trade engine the fill information is sent through the electronic trade engine and ORS . ORS passes the fill information to the member firm systems and to a continuous trade match CTM system which matches the buy side and sell side of a trade which in turn forwards the matched trades to the Options Clearing Corporation OCC a third party organization that will verify that all trades properly clear. The electronic trade engine also sends quote and sale update information through an internal distribution system that will refresh display screens within the exchange and format the information for submission to a quote dissemination service such as the Options Price Reporting Authority OPRA .

The ORS may use existing trade information to generate an indicator of market sentiment as detailed herein below. The cumulative value will be calculated every time period N based upon all of the eligible trades. For example a value of 30 minutes for N may be used to calculate an indicator value using only the trades from the previous half hour of trading. As further discussed below indicator values may also be calculated using volume statistics. Preferably the indicator values are transmitted to a dissemination service such as OPRA . A report may also be generated that will display the indicator value and or its components on a display screen or printout for the user. Although a trading system with hybrid open outcry and electronic aspects has been discussed all electronic systems are also contemplated.

Referring now to one embodiment of a method for determining and displaying an indicator of market sentiment such as bullish or bearish described herein is illustrated.

In accordance with an indicator value is calculated in the system by taking the sum of all customer opening buy call option trades and all customer opening sell put option trades at step then dividing that number by the total number of opening customer trades at step to calculate the indicator value . Additionally in an embodiment the indicator value is multiplied by a multiplier at step such as multiplying the resulting indicator value by a numerical value such as 100.

It is preferred that the indicator value is calculated using trades from customer orders only. Trades from spread orders or other complex orders preferably not utilized in the calculation of the indicator value . Thus in an embodiment taking the sum of Buy Call trades and Sell Put trades then dividing by the total number of customer trades yields the indicator value . In another embodiment the indicator value is multiplied by a multiplier to generate an indicator value such as an indicator value positioned within a range of numbers for example between the numbers 0 100. The resulting indicator values and can then be characterized as indicative of market sentiment such as bullish or bearish based on predefined criteria such as an indicator value of 0.0 0.49 or 0 49 being bearish or an indicator value of 0.51 1.0 or 51 100 being bullish.

Preferably the indicator values or are calculated every period N until the end of the trading day using all of the trades through that point in the day. The period N may be numerical time value such as for example every 30 minutes or every 60 seconds or may be a numerical value indicative of a number of calculations in a given day such as for example once a day or twice a day. In one example the indicator value is calculated every thirty minutes. Such an indicator value may for example include only the trades from the previous time period for example thirty minutes . Additionally the indicator value may be calculated for equity trades index trades and total exchange trades.

In a manner similar to that of the trade based indicator detailed above a volume based indicator may be calculated. As further illustrated in an indicator value is calculated in the system by taking the sum of all customer opening buy call option volume and all customer opening sell put option volume at step then dividing that number by the total number of opening customer volume at step to calculate the indicator value . Additionally in an embodiment the indicator value is multiplied by a multiplier at step such as multiplying the resulting indicator value by a numerical value such as 100.

It is preferred that the indicator value is calculated using the volume from customer orders only. Volume from spread orders or other complex orders preferably not utilized in the calculation of the indicator value . Thus in an embodiment taking the sum of Buy Call volume and Sell Put volume then dividing by the total number of customer volume yields the indicator value . In another embodiment the indicator value is multiplied by a multiplier to generate the indicator value such as an indicator value positioned within a range of numbers for example between the numbers 0 100. As stated previously with respect to indicator values and the resulting indicator values and can also be characterized as indicative of market sentiment such as bullish or bearish based on predefined criteria such as an indicator value of 0.0 0.49 or 0 49 being bearish or an indicator value of 0.51 1.0 or 51 100 being bullish.

Preferably the indicator values are also calculated every period N until the end of the trading day using all of the volume through that point in the day. As stated previously with regard to indicator values and the period N may be numerical time value such as for example every 30 minutes or every 60 seconds or may be a numerical value indicative of a number of calculations in a given day such as for example once a day or twice a day. In one example the indicator value is calculated every thirty minutes. Such an indicator value may for example include only the trades from the previous time period thirty minutes .

Additionally the indicator value may also be calculated for equity volume index volume and total exchange volume. Further at step the indicator value and or may be output to a display or printer that will display the indicator value and or its components on a display screen or printout for the user.

BCis the number of Buy Call trades 10 SPis the number of Sell Put trades 50 TT is the Total Trades 90 M is the multiplier value 100 and IVis the Indicator Value by trades and

BCis the number of Buy Call volume 250 SPis the number of Sell Put volume 1000 TV is the Total Volume 1500 M is the multiplier value 100 and IVis the Indicator Value by volume.

BCis the number of Buy Call trades 500 SPis the number of Sell Put trades 250 TT is the Total Trades 1050 M is the multiplier value 100 and IVis the Indicator Value by trades and

BCis the number of Buy Call volume 12 750 SPis the number of Sell Put volume 7 000 TV is the Total Volume 24 500 M is the multiplier value 100 and IVis the Indicator Value by volume.

BCis the total number of Buy Call trades 510 SPis the total number of Sell Put trades 300 TT is the Total Trades 1140 M is the multiplier value 100 and IVis the Indicator Value by total trades and

BCis the total number of Buy Call volume 12 750 SPis the number of Sell Put volume 8 000 TV is the Total Volume 26 000 M is the multiplier value 100 and IVis the Indicator Value by total volume.

BCis the number of Buy Call trades 10 SPis the number of Sell Put trades 10 TT is the Total Trades 90 M is the multiplier value 100 and IVis the Indicator Value by trades and

BCis the number of Buy Call volume 250 SPis the number of Sell Put volume 100 TV is the Total Volume 1500 M is the multiplier value 100 and IVis the Indicator Value by volume.

BCis the number of Buy Call trades 100 SPis the number of Sell Put trades 250 TT is the Total Trades 1050 M is the multiplier value 100 and IVis the Indicator Value by trades and

BCis the number of Buy Call volume 2 000 SPis the number of Sell Put volume 7 000 TV is the Total Volume 24 500 M is the multiplier value 100 and IVis the Indicator Value by volume.

BCis the total number of Buy Call trades 110 SPis the total number of Sell Put trades 250 TT is the Total Trades 1140 M is the multiplier value 100 and IVis the Indicator Value by total trades and

BCis the total number of Buy Call volume 2 250 SPis the number of Sell Put volume 7 100 TV is the Total Volume 26 000 M is the multiplier value 100 and IVis the Indicator Value by total volume.

As has been described above the methods described herein are utilized for determining and displaying an indicator of market sentiment.

Referring now to an illustrative embodiment of a general computer system that may be used for one or more of the steps shown in or in any other trading system configured to carry out the methods discussed above is shown and is designated . The computer system can include a set of instructions that can be executed to cause the computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or computer based functions disclosed herein. The computer system may operate as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. using a network to other computer systems or peripheral devices.

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer system can also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a network router switch or bridge or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. In a particular embodiment the computer system can be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice video or data communication. Further while a single computer system is illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

As illustrated in the computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both. Moreover the computer system can include a main memory and a static memory that can communicate with each other via a bus . As shown the computer system may further include a video display unit such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED a flat panel display a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT . Additionally the computer system may include an input device such as a keyboard and a cursor control device such as a mouse. The computer system can also include a disk drive unit and a network interface device .

In a particular embodiment as depicted in the disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions e.g. software can be embedded. Further the instructions may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. In a particular embodiment the instructions may reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may include computer readable media.

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable medium that includes instructions or receives and executes instructions responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network can communicate voice video or data over the network . Further the instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via the network interface device .

While the computer readable medium is shown to be a single medium the term computer readable medium includes a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

In a particular non limiting exemplary embodiment the computer readable medium can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile rewritable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols commonly used on financial exchanges the invention is not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

Although the methods described herein preferably relate to a hybrid system incorporating and involving active participation from a trading floor and a screen based electronic trading crowd the procedures described may be applied to an exclusively electronic screen based exchange that does not include floor based open outcry trading. As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art mechanisms for determining and displaying an indicator of market sentiment and other features described above may all be modified for application to electronic only trading within the purview and scope of the present invention.

The matter set forth in the foregoing description and accompanying drawings is offered by way of illustration only and not as a limitation. While particular embodiments have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that changes and modifications may be made without departing from the broader aspects of applicants contribution. It is therefore intended that the foregoing detailed description be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting and that it be understood that it is the following claims including all equivalents that are intended to define the scope of this invention.

