---

title: Deterministic characterization and reduction of acoustic echo
abstract: Techniques to characterize and reduce acoustic echo are described. For example, a mobile computing device may comprise an audio characterization module to send a first signal to a first component and receive a second signal from a second component. The first signal may be a deterministic audio training sequence and the second signal may be a recovered audio training sequence. The audio characterization module compares the first signal and the second signal to determine an audio echo path. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08463331&OS=08463331&RS=08463331
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08463331
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080327
---
A mobile computing device such as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone or smart phone generally may be used in a number of different environments. As the functionality of mobile computing devices continues to increase and the form factor of mobile computing devices continues to evolve mobile computing devices will continue to be used in a growing number of different environments and for different purposes that require audio clarity. One major obstacle to achieving consistent audio clarity is acoustic echo resulting typically from the microphone of a mobile computing device detecting or picking up the sound emanating from the speaker of the same mobile computing device. The acoustic echo changes based on the environment in which the mobile computing device is being used and the manner in which the mobile computing device is being used. It is desirable therefore for mobile computing devices to effectively reduce the amount of echo introduced as a result of the environment and manner in which the mobile computing device is being used. Consequently there exists a substantial need for techniques to improve echo path characterization and reduction in mobile computing devices.

Acoustic echo is a common problem in mobile computing devices. The problem is especially prevalent when mobile computing devices are utilized in a speakerphone mode or in any other arrangement in which the sound emanating from a speaker of the mobile computing device is being picked up by a microphone of the mobile computing device resulting in acoustic echo. The problem exists in any communications scenario where there is a speaker and a microphone. Examples of acoustic echo are found in common environments in which mobile computing devices are used including hands free car phone systems a standard mobile computing device in speakerphone or hands free mode as a result of physical coupling e.g. vibrations of the speaker transferring to the microphone via the casing or enclosure of the mobile computing device headset systems e.g. Bluetooth or wired headsets cordless phones and VoIP phones.

The difficulties in cancelling or reducing acoustic echo stem from the alteration of the original sound emitted by the speaker of the mobile computing device by the ambient space and detected by the microphone of the mobile computing device. The changes in the original audio signal can include certain frequencies being absorbed by soft furnishings differing angles of reflection off of hard surfaces and different strengths of reflection for example.

Current techniques to reduce the effects of acoustic echo typically depend on echo cancellation algorithms that empirically adapt to or characterize the echo path detected by the mobile computing device. These algorithms often have difficulty handling the wide array of possible echo scenarios including differing time delays phase changes number of echo paths echo tail length and the different echo environments such as use in an automobile office auditorium home or around bare walls for example.

Conventional echo cancellation algorithms do not use a priori knowledge of the echo environment to initialize operating parameters of a mobile computing device to combat acoustic echo. In contrast conventional algorithms rely on slowly adapting algorithms that eventually converge to an approximation of the echo environment. The problem with existing algorithms is that convergence to proper parameters may be slow and inaccurate leading to unsatisfactory reduction in acoustic echo. Additionally some existing characterization algorithms may use tones to sound out the environment. However these tones are audible and may be distracting to the user of a mobile computing device. Consequently there exists a substantial need for techniques to improve echo path characterization and reduction.

Various embodiments may be generally directed to echo path characterization and reduction for a mobile computing device such as a smart phone. Some embodiments may be particularly directed to audio characterization techniques for a mobile computing device based on a deterministic audio training sequence.

In one embodiment for example a mobile computing device may include an audio characterization module and at least a first component and a second component. In various embodiments the audio characterization module sends a first signal to the first component and receives a second signal from the second component. One example of the first and second components may comprise a speaker and a microphone respectively. In various embodiments the audio characterization module may compare the first signal and the second signal to determine an audio echo path and use this information to configure an echo cancellation algorithm.

The mobile computing device may further include a processor coupled to the speaker and the microphone. The processor may be operative to execute the audio characterization module. The mobile computing device may further include a memory coupled to the processor. The memory may be operative to store the audio characterization module. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Reducing the amount of acoustic echo received at a mobile computing device using a deterministic audio training sequence may have several advantages. For example if a user involved in a telephone conversation using their mobile computing device changes locations e.g. the user walks from a first room to a second room the acoustic echo characteristics of the environment may change. In this situation it would be advantageous for the mobile computing device to quickly adapt to the new echo environment to avoid any disruption in the telephone call quality experienced by the user. Adjusting parameters of the mobile computing device using a known training sequence may allow the mobile computing device to accommodate readily changing echo environments and enhance the performance and user experience of the mobile computing device. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include other combinations of elements in alternate arrangements as desired for a given implementation. It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

The mobile computing device may be generally configured to support or provide cellular voice communication wireless data communication and computing capabilities. The mobile computing device may be implemented as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone sometimes referred to as a smart phone. Examples of smart phones include for example Palm products such as Palm Treo smart phones. Although some embodiments may be described with the mobile computing device implemented as a smart phone by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the mobile computing device may comprise or be implemented as any type of wireless device mobile station or portable computing device with a self contained power source e.g. battery such as a laptop computer ultra laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA mobile unit subscriber station user terminal portable computer handheld computer palmtop computer wearable computer media player pager messaging device data communication device cordless phone wireless headset wired headset VoIP phone and so forth. Additional details for a mobile computing device may be described in more detail with reference to .

The processor may comprise a general purpose processor or an application specific processor arranged to provide general or specific computing capabilities for the communications system . For example the processor may perform operations associated with higher layer protocols and applications. For instance the processor may be implemented as a host processor to provide various user applications such as telephony text messaging e mail web browsing word processing video signal display and so forth. In addition the processor may provide one or more functional utilities that are available to various protocols operations and or applications. Examples of such utilities include operating systems device drivers user interface functionality and so forth.

The memory may comprise computer readable media such as volatile or non volatile memory units arranged to store programs and data for execution by the processor . As depicted in the memory may store an audio characterization module in the form of executable program instructions code or data. The processor may retrieve and execute the program instructions code or data from the memory to control or provide audio characterization operations for the mobile computing device . Although the audio characterization module is shown as part of the memory for execution by the processor it may be appreciated that the audio characterization module may be stored and executed by other memory and processing resources available to the mobile computing device . Further although the audio characterization module is depicted as software executed by a processor it may be appreciated that the operations for the audio characterization module may be implemented in hardware as well using one or more integrated circuits for example. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The microphone may comprise any acoustic to electric transducer or sensor that converts sound into an electrical signal. In various embodiments microphone may comprise a dynamic microphone condenser microphone or any other type of microphone suitable for use in converting audio signals into electrical signals to be processed by mobile computing device . While microphone is shown as part of mobile computing device by way of example it should be understood that microphone may comprise a microphone that is not part of mobile computing device in various embodiments. In various embodiments microphone may comprise a microphone that is located remote from mobile computing device and is communicably coupled to mobile computing device . For example microphone may comprise a microphone that is part of a Bluetooth headset or hands free car kit communicably coupled to mobile computing device . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Speaker may comprise one or more electromechanical transducers that convert an electrical signal to sound. Speaker may be configured to provide stereophonic or monophonic sound for example. In various embodiments speaker may comprise one or more speakers. In various embodiments a first speaker may be configured for a close range audio mode and a second speaker may be configured for a speakerphone audio mode. In various embodiments the first or second speaker may be located remote from the mobile computing device . For example the first or second speaker may be located in a Bluetooth headset or hands free car kit communicably coupled to mobile computing device .

In general operation the mobile computing device may comprise an audio characterization module to send a first signal to a first component and receive a second signal from a second component. The first signal may comprise a deterministic audio training sequence sent from audio characterization module to the first component in various embodiments. The first component may comprise a speaker such as speaker for example. The deterministic audio training sequence may comprise for example comfort noise configured as artificial background noise. The comfort noise may be configured to reduce audible disturbance to a user while the mobile computing device is in use in various embodiments.

In various embodiments the second signal may comprise a recovered audio training sequence received at audio characterization module from the second component. The second component may comprise a microphone such as microphone for example.

Audio characterization module may be configured to compare the first signal and the second signal to determine an audio echo path in some embodiments. Comparing the first signal and the second signal may further comprise correlating the first signal and the second signal to determine an echo environment model. Examples of the parameters associated with an echo environment model may include one or more echo paths a delay time for the one or more echo paths one or more echo tail lengths or an amplitude and phase for the one or more echo paths. It can be appreciated that other suitable parameters associated with an echo environment model may be used in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments audio characterization module may configure an echo cancellation algorithm based on the echo environment model determined from the correlation of the first and second signals. In response to the configured echo cancellation algorithm audio characterization module may select an operating mode for the mobile computing device or initialize parameters of an echo canceller or echo suppressor. In various embodiments the parameters of the echo canceller may include at least one of a delay time tail length adaptation step size adaptation speed gain or loop bandwidth. It can be appreciated that other suitable echo canceller parameters may be used in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments signal may comprise a deterministic or known audio training sequence sent from an audio characterization module to a speaker and to correlation component . Sending signal to both component and correlation component allows for a known comparison or correlation between signal and signal which is described in more detail below. Signal may comprise for example a deterministic audio training sequence sent from audio characterization module to speaker of . Signal may comprise any deterministic or known audio training sequence such as comfort noise or background noise that can be used to sound out an echo environment and not interfere with the quality of the audio signal detected by a user of the mobile computing device.

In various embodiments signal may comprise a deterministic audio training sequence configured to reduce audible disturbance to a user while the mobile computing device is in use. For example signal may comprise background noise or comfort noise having an amplitude sufficient to sound out the echo environment while not being distracting to a user of the mobile computing device. In various embodiments signal will have a wide frequency range to accurately characterize the echo environment and will be sufficiently long in duration to ensure sufficient processing gain.

Signal is sent from audio characterization module to component . Component in turn converts the signal into an acoustic audio signal that enters the echo environment . Echo environment may comprise any environment in which a mobile computing device could be operated. For example echo environment may comprise the inside of an automobile the outdoors indoors with exposed brick walls an auditorium etc. The acoustic characteristics of the echo environment will differ from echo environment to echo environment. As a result echo paths and will differ in each respective echo environment and when mobile computing device is utilized in different configuration or locations in each echo environment. While only two echo paths are shown by way of example it should be understood that any number of echo paths may exist for purposes of the described embodiments.

In various embodiments signal traverses echo environment along a number of echo paths such as echo paths and for example and arrives at component . Component may comprise a microphone such as microphone of configured to receive the acoustic signal and convert that signal into a digital signal such as signal . Signal represents a transformed version of signal that has been distorted in part as a result of echo environment and the one or more echo paths over which it has traveled.

Signal is then passed to correlation component of audio characterization module where it is compared to or correlated with signal . The correlation may be processed by any suitable form of signal processing such as by a digital signal processor DSP or a general purpose processor for example. Because signal is known to the correlation component the comparison or correlation of signals and can occur quickly and can result in an accurate approximation of the echo environment. Based on the correlation correlation component may output a characterization of the echo environment that represents an accurate model of echo environment including parameters such as the number of echo paths delay time for each path echo tail length or amplitude and phase of each echo path.

In various embodiments the echo environment parameters may be used individually or collectively to configure an echo cancellation algorithm. The echo cancellation algorithm may comprise any algorithm configured to anticipate the signal being received at component e.g. signal and cancel it or reduce its impact on the audio quality of the mobile computing device . For example based on the output of the echo cancellation algorithm an appropriate operating mode such as automobile operating mode or outdoor operating mode may be selected for mobile computing device . In various embodiments the output of the echo cancellation algorithm may be used to initialize parameters of an echo canceller or echo suppressor that is configured to produce a signal that is one hundred and eighty degrees out of phase with the correlated signal to eliminate or reduce the echo signal.

In various embodiments the first signal may be sent to the first component during periods of inactivity at the first component . For example if the speaker is inactive the deterministic audio training sequence may be sent to the speaker. Sending the first signal during silence periods at the speaker increases the likelihood that audio interference will be avoided as a result of inserting the background noise. The intermittent transmission of the training sequence allows for continual updating to reflect the changing echo environment of the mobile computing device as a result of frequent silence periods in a conventional telephone conversation. During the detected silence periods at component signal may be configured as comfort noise or background noise to avoid any distracting tones that a user of the mobile computing device may perceive. In various embodiments signal will be configured so that a user of the mobile computing device will not aware of its existence or will not notice the signal as a distraction.

In various embodiments the first signal may be continuously sent to the first component . For example the deterministic audio training sequence may be sent concurrently with other audio data such as voice conversation data. Continuous transmission of the deterministic audio training sequence allows for continuous monitoring characterization and adaptation to changing echo environments. When continuous transmission of the deterministic audio training sequence is employed the training sequence should be configured as comfort noise or background noise that will have a minimal impact on the quality of the audio transmission and will be minimally distracting to a user of the mobile computing device. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

While a limited number of embodiments in which the first signal is sent to the first component are described above it should be understood that the first signal may be sent to the first component at various times and still fall with the described embodiments. illustrations one embodiment of a timing diagram illustrating various times in which a training sequence can be sent to a speaker. For example diagram may illustrate various times in which first signal may be sent to first component of . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments the activity level of the components of a mobile computing device may change with time. For example as shown at there may be periods of inactivity at when no signals are being sent to the speaker and no signals are being received at the microphone. At activity may occur at the speaker only and at activity may occur at the microphone only. In various embodiments combinations of the various activity levels are possible. For example a user of mobile computing device may speak into microphone and simultaneously listen to a signal being reproduced by speaker .

In some embodiments as shown at a signal may be sent during periods of inactivity . For example when both the speaker and microphone of mobile computing device are inactive a deterministic audio training sequence may be sent to speaker . At a signal may be sent continuously during any of inactivity activity at speaker activity at microphone or any combination of these situations. For example a deterministic audio training sequence may be sent to speaker continuously during periods of silence in a conversation during periods when a signal is being reproduced by speaker during periods when a signal is detected by microphone and during periods when both a signal is reproduced by speaker and a signal is detected by microphone .

In various embodiments as shown at a signal may be sent during periods of activity at the speaker only . For example when the speaker is reproducing a signal a deterministic audio training sequence may be sent to speaker . At a signal may be sent during periods of activity at the microphone only . For example when a microphone of mobile computing device is detecting a signal a deterministic audio training sequence may be sent to speaker . In some embodiments a signal may be sent during periods of activity at speaker and during periods of activity at microphone as shown at . For example a deterministic audio training sequence may be sent to speaker during periods of activity at speaker and activity at speaker . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Operations for the above embodiments may be further described with reference to the following figures and accompanying examples. Some of the figures may include a logic diagram. Although such figures presented herein may include a particular logic diagram it can be appreciated that the logic diagram merely provides an example of how the general functionality as described herein can be implemented. Further the given logic diagram does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the given logic diagram may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments the deterministic audio training sequence may comprise comfort noise configured as artificial background noise and configured to reduce audible disturbance to a user of the mobile computing device. For example the comfort noise signal may have an amplitude selected to avoid or reduce interference with a voice telephone conversation taking place using mobile computing device .

In one embodiment the first signal and the second signal may be correlated to determine an echo environment model. For example mobile computing device may be used in an automobile having a distinct echo environment. Based on the correlation between the first and second signals correlation component of may be able to determine that the mobile computing device is currently being operating in an automobile for example and appropriate adjustments may be made to the audio settings of the mobile computing device.

In various embodiments an echo cancellation algorithm may be configured based on the determined echo environment model including selecting an operating mode or initializing parameters of an echo canceller or suppressor. For example in the automobile use example described above an automobile operating mode that has parameters specifically directed to the reduction of echo signals associated with use in an automobile may be selected based on the results of the application of the echo cancellation algorithm.

The first signal may be sent to the first component during periods of inactivity at the first component in various embodiments. For example when speaker is inactive audio characterization module may send signal to speaker . In various embodiments the first signal may be continuously sent to the first component. For example audio characterization module may continuously send a deterministic audio training sequence to speaker in addition to any other audio information sent to speaker such as the voice of a user of mobile computing device for example. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The host processor e.g. similar to the processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the mobile computing device is shown with a dual processor architecture it may be appreciated that the mobile computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the processors may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. The host processor may also be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth. The keypad may comprise a physical keypad using hard buttons or a virtual keypad using soft buttons displayed on a display .

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 46 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibrate motor coupled to the host processor . The vibrate motor may be enable or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrate motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to synchronize information with a local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers such as speaker system an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI device a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may also be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. The radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any of the computer readable media described with reference to the memory . The memory may be typically implemented as flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the radio processor some or all of the memory may be included on the same IC as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communications and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols as previously described. In some embodiments the transceiver module may further comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In some embodiments the SIM may be implemented as an UMTS universal SIM USIM card or a CDMA removable user identity module RUIM card. The SIM may comprise a SIM application toolkit STK comprising a set of programmed commands for enabling the SIM to perform various functions. In some cases the STK may be arranged to enable the SIM to independently control various aspects of the mobile computing device .

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation messaging applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. Messaging applications may be arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Examples of messaging applications may include without limitation a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an e mail application an SMS application an MMS application and so forth. It is also to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments.

The host processor may include an audio characterization module . The audio characterization module may the same or similar to the audio characterization module described with reference to .

The mobile computing device may include various databases implemented in the memory . For example the mobile computing device may include a message content database a message log database a contacts database a media database a preferences database and so forth. The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects for various types of messages sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The media database may be arranged to store various types of media content such as image information audio information video information and or other data. The preferences database may be arranged to store various settings such as rules and parameters for controlling the operation of the mobile computing device .

In some cases various embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture. The article of manufacture may include a storage medium arranged to store logic and or data for performing various operations of one or more embodiments. Examples of storage media may include without limitation those examples as previously described. In various embodiments for example the article of manufacture may comprise a magnetic disk optical disk flash memory or firmware containing computer program instructions suitable for execution by a general purpose processor or application specific processor. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include any of the examples as previously provided for a logic device and further including microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

