---

title: Methods and devices for remote processing of information originating from a mobile communication device
abstract: In part the invention relates to a method of providing remote access to data generated by a mobile device having a device storage element. The method includes the steps of monitoring the mobile device such that changes in local data resident in the device storage element are detected using a client application installed on the mobile device, wherein the changes in the local data accumulate during a period of time to comprise at least one change set; transmitting the at least one change set over a network; receiving the at least one change set at a remote server, the remote server having a remote storage element; and processing the at least one change set using a server application to generate user accessible remote data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08437744&OS=08437744&RS=08437744
owner: ZeroTouchDigital, Inc.
number: 08437744
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080423
---
Various embodiments of the invention relate to monitoring a mobile communication device to detect changes and provide enhanced services to the user of the device. Specifically various embodiments relate to the automatic processing transmission and or remote storing of information originating from captured by or otherwise accessible on the mobile device.

Mobile communication devices such as phones laptops personal digital assistants content players and other similar devices are now pervasive in many parts of the world. In many developing countries since cellular phone based systems are easier to install and offer the immediate benefit of portability to the end users a landline based telephone system is not being developed. As a result given the rising dominance of mobile devices relative to land lines many changes are occurring in the telecommunication business.

On a related note as more and more features are being integrated into modern communications devices cameras positioning systems video and music playing functionality etc. end users are relying on these devices and using them as a multi function replacement for many application specific electronic devices. However storing information on a mobile devices and using it as a replacement for various application specific devices such as a camera or a GPS device raises challenges and problems not found in the stand alone devices.

Therefore a need exists for devices methods and systems that address the underlying data management challenges associated with the worldwide shift toward using mobile communication devices in lieu of land lines and other application specific devices.

In general embodiments of the invention use various communication protocols and networks to monitor changes in certain categories of data associated with resident on captured using or otherwise generated by a user s mobile device. In one embodiment the invention relates to systems methods and devices that monitor changes in a mobile device and enable automatic or user controlled processing or archiving of information generated using the mobile device. Further according to one embodiment the information generated using the mobile device is transmitted to a remote user accessible device for processing and or storage. The information generated using the mobile device may include a change set indicative of new information existing on the mobile device relative to a previous point in time. In addition systems and methods described herein may be bi directional such that data can be both sent from and sent to a mobile device.

In one preferred embodiment the invention allows photos generated using the camera of or otherwise transmitted to the mobile device to be subsequently transmitted to a remote location for further processing or archiving. In one specific preferred embodiment the further processing includes moving a user s pictures from their mobile device to a browser accessible photo archive in response to a user action or automatically as configured by the device user. The use of the camera features associated with many mobile devices allows embodiments of the invention to be extended to any imaging based capture system. For example the mobile device can be used to image or photograph a symbol such as a barcode. Once captured the barcode can be routed to a remote server or remote peer for processing by a digital imaging application. In this way a barcode can be used to order goods and services using one embodiment of the invention.

The techniques disclosed herein enable the remote archiving or remote processing of any suitable type of file data or content generated using a mobile device. Thus logs for calls made and received text messages personal notes voice memos such as dictation files emails voicemails pictures and other content or media files generated using a mobile device can all be processed remotely or archived as desired using the methods and devices disclosed herein. In one embodiment the methods described herein are activated in response to a single user action. This single user action can include but is not limited to turning the mobile device on selecting an application from a menu sending an email taking a picture sending a text message listening to a voicemail writing a note generating a change in the state of the mobile device and transmitting or receiving local data.

An exemplary network based system for implementing an embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . Specifically as shown in the figure a mobile communication device alternatively a first peer is shown that includes a software application such as a client application or a peer to peer based application suitable for performing many of the transmission data streaming and switching functions described in more detail below. Although the software application can be a client application the recital of the term client application can also be considered to encompass a peer to peer application which is also suitable for use with the methods and devices described herein.

The client application is configured to be data channel independent when selecting remote peers or processing elements to transmit and or process data. As used herein a peer is a device processing element program or other software element that includes at least one of a software component or a hardware component suitable for transmitting data and communicating with other software or hardware devices. For example a peer can include but is not limited to the mobile device the client application a server a browser a database a processing application a digital video recorder a cable set top box an online photo archive or any other suitable software or hardware element that can communicate with a mobile device.

Returning to the mobile device is shown transmitting data or otherwise communicating via a device network or via the Internet . In turn both the device network and the Internet are in communication with a plurality of processing elements or peers generally . This group of peers is in communication with an application server alternatively a second peer that includes a processing application . The processing elements or peers receive local data or a version thereof from the mobile device . Additional detail relating to the type characteristics organization and communication links between suitable peers or processing links is discussed below in more detail with respect to and .

The processing elements or peer group can include multiple servers. This follows because as local data is transmitted from the mobile device to a peer group client application or related service the data need not go to the same peer each and every time. For example that peer may be under a load so the client application or related service may transmit via a different server. Thus a handheld peer such a mobile device running the client application can arbitrarily choose a peer from the group of peers that has a server implementation such as the HTTP email or SMS servers shown in to which it wants to connect.

In one preferred embodiment the mobile device transmits data for remote processing using a connectionless protocol such as a datagram based protocol. According to one embodiment a datagram is a self contained independent data element carrying sufficient information to be routed from a mobile device to a destination peer application server or processing application without reliance on earlier exchanges between the mobile device and destination processing element and the transporting network.

The client application can include certain routines and modules suitable for modifying data sent from the mobile device to include headers wrappers or other routing information that identifies the data as coming through a particular channel provides mobile device authentication information such as the International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI identifying where the data needs to go identifying where the data is coming from identifying the user of the mobile device and identifying where the local data or a version thereof is supposed to be sent. However the IMEI is not the only means of authenticating information and any suitable secure identifier can be used in a given embodiment.

The client application typically operates using a connectionless approach such that a persistent connection is not needed to function. Instead when an opportunity exists to send data using any particular channel or protocol the device uses that opportunity to offload local data and transmit to a remote device. Thus local data or a version thereof can be sent from the mobile device using a data stream broadcasts email text messages TCP IP HTTP FTP datagrams or other suitable data transfer protocols or transmission channels.

In addition in one embodiment the client application uses a data flow or streams across one or more peers to achieve certain data transport and processing objectives. The client application executes across the sum of peers required to achieve the end objective of either processing or archiving data in one embodiment. This execution across one or more peers can be performed using a routing module resident on a peer or within the client application. The function of the routing module is to capture the change set and communicate the change set once the network connection is available to transmit reliable data. Thus the routing module employs a connectionless protocol in one embodiment.

The client application can be written in various programming languages such as objective C or Java. The client application can also be implemented on a mobile device using standard Borne shell scripts. According to one embodiment a shell script is a program interpreted and executed by a shell or other interpreter. However any suitable programming language can be used to design a client application that performs as outlined herein.

From the mobile device s and client application s perspective the device selects the peer group and ensures that portions of local data combine as a final product that forms a single archive or other data structure of all change sets in that particular device. This resultant transmission of local data to an application server may occur through different pathways or streams of data sent through a group of peers . The archive is consolidated at a remote location such as an archive of processing server . In one embodiment active consolidation of portions of local data at a remote location occurs within a peer group through a series of data flows or streams using a connectionless protocol.

The processing application can be any suitable software application that receives processes converts archives or otherwise interacts with data such as local data or a portion thereof originating from the mobile device . Alternatively the processing application can be any suitable software application that generates processed local data such as a copy of local data .

Before describing the flow of information in greater detail with respect to the elements depicted in the overall system one skilled in the art should recognize that although a device network mobile communication device a group of processing elements and an application server are all shown as separate and distinct from the Internet all of the elements shown in can all be linked by or exist within the Internet or any suitable subset thereof or other type of network without deviating from the scope and spirit of the invention.

The client application installed on the mobile communication device includes modules and routines to accomplish several novel objectives. The first objective is monitoring changes on the mobile devices . The second objective is to transmit data associated with a change in the data content of the mobile device . The application monitors data changes to detect anything that is changing in that mobile device environment. For example these changes can involve contacts events insertions deletions modifications calls made calls received text messages sent text messages received notes and other content changes voice memos voicemail that is stored as local data on the mobile device GPS tag data photos and other different modalities of user generated content that can occur on a handset.

Since the second function of the mobile device is to offload data there is a temporal period in which the client application begins accumulating one or more change sets such that when client application or related service can make a valid connection the client application or related service can start pushing such one or more change sets to processing element such as an SMS server or an application server.

The client application can process memos voicemails pictures text messages and other file types. The application streams a subset of local data and archives it offline such that they can be accessed through a browser a proprietary application a web server or other suitable device or software component in one embodiment.

Returning to a mobile communication device is shown. This device can be any suitable communication device now known or otherwise developed in the future such as a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone media player and laptop. In general in a preferred embodiment the device includes a processing element a storage element such as a hard drive or flash memory a transmitter and other suitable hardware and software as appropriate to transmit or otherwise stream data from the device to a remote location a peer or other remote processing element.

Typically the mobile device includes an input device. This input is responsive to a user action. The device also includes a storage element. The storage element is sized to store local data . Local data can include any data element stored on captured by or otherwise accessible in the device. Examples of local data include but are not limited to pictures media files emails text messages voicemails memos notes and logs.

A client application such as a transmission application is stored within the storage element. The client application is designed to transmit at least a portion of local data a media file to a remote location such as the application server . A processor is also part of the mobile device . The processor is programmed to detect changes in any local data such as media files stored in the storage element and initialize the transmission application in response to a user action. The user action may include a preset signal to automatically archive all data on the devices or a specific command by a user to transmit the local data to the remote application server for handling by the processing application. The mobile device also includes a transmitter in electronic communication with the processor and the storage.

As shown in a mobile device includes a client application such as the client application discussed above with respect to . The client application resident on the mobile device may include a particular application programming interface API that communicates and performs certain functions relative to software and or hardware components that are specific to the mobile device . In contrast certain peers depicted in such as HTTP server are configured such that the underlying software running on the server is exclusively under the control of the service offering that is paired with the client application.

Thus certain peers may be exclusively controlled by a service offering that works with the client application such as remote photo archiving service certain peers may be independent of any service offering and simply route information from the client application or a combination of both of these options such that some components of the peer are controlled by the service offering while others are not.

As discussed above the mobile device captures or receives various types of content such as visual voicemail pictures notes SMS sent received a call log emails and various other types of local data that change based on the activities and subscriptions of the mobile device user. The local data also includes meta data and version information associated with each of the foregoing files and any other files that can be stored on or generated using the mobile device. In order to transmit process and route local data such as data streams and change sets from the mobile device the device communicates with various processing elements or peers as shown in .

Specifically as shown in the mobile device initially communicates with one of an HTTP server an email server or an SMS server . The role of the HTTP server is to send HTTP messages and receive HTTP messages which are forwarded to other servers or devices as shown in the figure. The HTTP server is present to support different firewall constraints as needed for some embodiments. The email server sends and receives email messages. Finally the SMS server sends SMS messages and receives SMS messages. Each of the HTTP server email server and SMS server all communicate and pass data through a device interpreter .

In one embodiment a device interpreter is used because the underlying data sent from the mobile device such as but not limited to emails HTTP messages and or SMS messages may vary based on the type of mobile device being used and the configuration of the client application. Thus a phone may transmit change set data differently than an mp3 player.

As a result a device interpreter is used to receive understand and translate or convert the relevant data such as change sets and other content. Thus different types of data that originate from a mobile device can be interpreted on a device by device basis. Thus data streams that originate from a mobile device can be standardized using an interpreter . In one embodiment the protocols at issue are device specific. Accordingly an interpreter or interpreter module would be installed on a server for each class of devices. Once the relevant data from the mobile device has been interpreted depending on the type of data at issue in one embodiment the data will continue to the natural language processing server the database server or both.

The natural language processing NLP server performs services for translating basic natural language commands and queries into a data flow or data stream. As an example the client application can act as a remote control using a text messaging modality. Thus instead of logging into a browser and remotely accessing a service such as an online photo archive a user of the mobile device can instead simply send a message that is routed from the client application to the NLP server .

Once received by the NLP server the server processes the text message and sends out a signal to accomplish an objective. With respect to the photo archive example the signal may be to turn off the receive feature of a user s photo archive account such that photos are not automatically archived until another text message or other user input is sent to turn the particular account feature back on so that it can receive data photos created as local data from the mobile device . In addition to the NLP server the group of peers can also include a data repository in the form of a database server .

The database server can store copies of or processed versions of any type of local data generated on the mobile device . The database also includes software that grants access to various different file stores and databases that are used by the peers that work in conjunction with the client application. Thus if a photo archive service or voicemail archive service is being offered the client application sends out the data and the database server acts as a remote location where a copy of the data is stored. For example the database archive can function as the archive of all the change sets associated with one or more mobile devices. In one embodiment the database is a mySQL database. In turn the database server is in communication with a data flow server and a control server .

The data flow or data stream server provides services for translating basic mobile device changes sets into basic a data flow or data stream which will be customized in response to input from the control server . As discussed above multiple data streams such as change sets are created using a mobile device with a client application. Services for insuring all strands are processed audited logged and or archived are provided by the control server . The customization and regulation processes that oversee and control the service offerings such as photo archiving paired with the client application are performed by the control server . For example the control server may access the database server to identify which mobile device users subscribe to different client application based services in order to control which functionalities are made available to those users.

The last tier of peers shown in includes an archive server a web server a desktop archive and a gallery server . The archive server provides services to upload pictures to a third party picture archive. The web server provides services to upload content to an application suitable for arranging files and activities in time such as an event calendaring application such as the interface shown in . In part this is facilitated by the integration of time stamp data in the local data that is sent or received. The integration of time stamp data typically within the meta data in a given file allows for tracking of the events associated with the generation of local data and the local data itself.

The desktop archive provides services to upload content to personal desktops such as sending photo repositories to a home computer set top cable box or other user controlled electronic devices. Finally the gallery server provides services to upload pictures to third party gallery web based photo album. In one embodiment the gallery server automatically prepares a printed photo album based on a selection of photo transmitted from a user s mobile device .

In a screenshot of a user interface of a home screen is illustrated. Similarly in a screenshot of a user interface of a login screen is illustrated. In one embodiment the login interface requires the input of an account identifier such as a mobile number a password and a unique code randomly generated to prevent automated scripting and web robots from improperly accessing the system.

In a screenshot of a user interface that displays various types of archived content and files . Specifically as shown in the screenshot call logs digital photos voicemail messages and other versions of local data generated using mobile device are shown. Each type of media content stored may be represented by an icon identifier indicating which type of content the archive is i.e. a voice conversation text or instant messaging conversation digital image etc. Filter and highlight controls allow a user to apply a selection criteria to the archive data to retrieve and display only the content desired. The color highlight controls may present the entered keywords found in distinct colors facilitating the viewing of desired content. The content may be arranged in a time line fashion that allows a user to scroll through the archived content by hour day or month .

In a screenshot of a user interface showing a digital photo being accessed using the interface is illustrated. Selecting an image icon initiates a pop up bubble displaying a thumbnail image of the selected file. Clicking on the thumbnail image itself will open up the full image file in its original size. Similarly in a screenshot of a user interface that shows a call log record being accessed is illustrated. Clicking on the call log icon initiates a pop up bubble displaying call log info from the record selected.

In a screenshot of a user interface is illustrated showing the selection of a Note record. Clicking on the Note icon initiates a pop up bubble displaying the contents of the Note record selected. The displayed contents may also include metadata or other data showing time and date of creation last viewing last edit etc. In a screenshot of a user interface is illustrated showing the selection of a voicemail record. Clicking on the voicemail icon initiates a pop up bubble displaying voicemail log info from the record selected.

In turn play controls are displayed with in the bubble allowing the user to play pause and control the volume of the playback of the voicemail record. In one embodiment selection of the voicemail icon automatically initiates the playback of the record. Metadata and other data about the voicemail record may also be displayed such as call time length data and status messages regarding the playback of the message e.g. unheard new old previously started listened completely etc. .

In a screenshot of a user interface is illustrated showing accessing a talk record that includes SMS based instructions to turn a flicker account on. Clicking on the talk log icon initiates a pop up bubble displaying call log info from the record selected. The contents of the bubble display the text of SMS messages sent to the relevant control peer.

In a screenshot of a user interface is illustrated after applying the data filter controls to display only records containing the keyword IMG for image files. After applying the filter only the IMG records are displayed in their locations in the time line chronology.

In a screenshot of a user interface is illustrated after applying the color highlight controls to the archive. In the illustrative example the keyword IMG is entered in the first highlight control dialog box . The icons for records containing the keyword IMG are displayed in a first color . The keyword talk is entered in the second highlight control box resulting in the talk records being highlighted in a second color . The keyword 1223 is entered in the third highlight control box resulting in the records containing the keyword being highlighted in a third color . The keyword 232 is entered in the forth highlight control box resulting in the records containing the keyword being highlighted in a forth color .

Many free and pay per use online photo galleries exist that allow a user to share photos with others. One example of such an archive is the popular Flickr service. In one embodiment the application client automatically transmits photos captured by or otherwise generated using the mobile device to a user s photo gallery account with the online archive provider. In another embodiment a user or a friend of the user may utilize a digital video recorder or cable set top box that serves as the remote location and application server to which a version of local data such as pictures and videos can be sent. In addition to archiving photos to an online photo gallery or repository the client also allows users to push pull or otherwise stream data to other users of the service.

In one embodiment since the client application can already access voicemails and other media files that include audio content the processing application can be configured to convert a user s voicemail or other audio files such as dictated memos to text and archive the resultant text at the application server.

In one embodiment the mobile device includes a location based service that includes GPS functionality. In this embodiment the client application can access a call log a GPS tag and a mapping functionality and use these in conjunction with the processing application to generate different products such as automatically GPS tagged picture archives.

In another embodiment the client application and related services can be used to monitor mobile device activity. Further if the mobile device includes location based services such as services that use GPS data mobile device position can also be monitored. Thus it is possible to correlate where a user was located when the client application or related service made or received a call or performed another action such as archiving data using the client application.

The device software methods and systems described herein can incorporate various network based technologies. In various embodiments suitable network based technologies for transmitting and receiving local data and processed versions in thereof include but are not limited to cellular infrared IR satellite Bluetooth wide area network WAN and WLAN Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi such as 802.x  standardized systems and are to be used generically when referring of any type of 802.11 network whether IEEE 802.11b 802.11a 802.16 802.20 dual band GPRS CDMA EDGE WCDMA CDMA2000 TD SCDMA network UWB W USB ZigBee NFC and WiMax.

Embodiments may operate over current mobile communication networks based on either Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or Global Systems Mobile GSM standards or other systems. The device network and the internet can be accessed using various protocols and auxiliary networks including the suitable network based technologies discussed above.

In addition to the client application resident on the mobile device an overall service including certain hardware components such as servers that act as peers or processing elements can also be established to facilitate to the transfer and processing of local data. Servers suitable for performing the processing routing transmission and archiving of local data can use a windows based operating system a Mac based a Linux based operating system or any other suitable open source or proprietary operating system.

The servers may have traditional hardware configurations each having about two megabytes of RAM disk space ranging from 120 up to 360 gigabytes of storage. The servers may be wireless or LAN based.

Computers and computer systems described herein may include operatively associated computer readable media such as memory for storing software applications used in obtaining processing storing and or communicating data. It can be appreciated that such memory can be internal external remote or local with respect to its operatively associated computer or computer system.

Memory may also include any means for storing software or other instructions including for example and without limitation a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk DVD digital versatile disc CD compact disc memory stick ROM read only memory RAM random access memory DRAM dynamic random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM extended erasable PROM and or other like computer readable media.

In general computer readable memory media applied in association with embodiments of the invention described herein may include any memory medium capable of storing instructions executed by a programmable apparatus. Where applicable method steps described herein may be embodied or executed as instructions stored on a computer readable memory medium or memory media. These instructions may be software embodied in various programming languages such as C C Java and or a variety of other kinds of software programming languages that may be applied to create instructions in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize however that these and other elements may be desirable. However because such elements are well known in the art and because they do not facilitate a better understanding of the invention a discussion of such elements is not provided herein. It should be appreciated that the figures are presented for illustrative purposes and not as construction drawings. Omitted details and modifications or alternative embodiments are within the purview of persons of ordinary skill in the art.

It can be appreciated that in certain aspects of the invention a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to provide an element or structure or to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice certain embodiments of the invention such substitution is considered within the scope of the invention.

The examples presented herein are intended to illustrate potential and specific implementations of the invention. It can be appreciated that the examples are intended primarily for purposes of illustration of the invention for those skilled in the art. There may be variations to these diagrams or the operations described herein without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance in certain cases method steps or operations may be performed or executed in differing order or operations may be added deleted or modified.

Furthermore whereas particular embodiments of the invention have been described herein for the purpose of illustrating the invention and not for the purpose of limiting the same it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous variations of the details materials and arrangement of elements steps structures and or parts may be made within the principle and scope of the invention without departing from the invention as described in the claims.

