---

title: Apparatus and methods of enhancing radio programming
abstract: Apparatus and methods enhancing radio programming include receiving a broadcast radio transmission at a communication device. The broadcast radio transmission includes primary content and supplemental content having a relationship to the primary content. Further, the primary content includes a first audio data, while the supplemental content includes audio data. Additionally, the apparatus and methods include converting the supplemental content into converted supplemental content, maintaining the relationship to the primary content. Moreover, the converted supplemental content includes second audio data converted from the non-audio data. Thus, the described apparatus and methods allow the communication device to output signals for generating audible representations of both the primary content and the supplemental content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08744337&OS=08744337&RS=08744337
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 08744337
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080616
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 944 719 entitled APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING AM FM RADIO DATA SYSTEM RDS BASED TECHNOLOGIES filed Jun. 18 2007 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The described aspects relate generally to broadcast radio transmissions and more particularly to enhancing user perception of the output of portions of a broadcast radio transmission on a communications device.

Broadcast radio stations such FM radio stations may use a system known as a Radio Data System RDS or Radio Broadcast Data System RBDS both referred to herein as RDS to transmit supplemental information corresponding to their normal radio programming e.g. music talk news etc. RDS provides a standard protocol for several types of supplemental information transmitted by the broadcast radio stations such as the identity of the particular radio station the type of programming and text information such as the name of an artist and or song.

For example broadcast radio stations transmit their programming and the supplemental information in the RDS format as distinct signals multiplexed onto a single channel. Radio receivers having RDS decoders such as those included with some wireless communications devices or those in a vehicle permit a user to listen to the transmitted programming and view the corresponding supplemental information on a display.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The described aspects allow a user to experience e.g. perceive supplemental content in a broadcast radio transmission thereby enhancing a radio listening experience.

For example in one aspect a method of enhancing radio programming comprises receiving a broadcast radio transmission at a communication device wherein the broadcast radio transmission comprises primary content and supplemental content having a relationship to the primary content wherein the primary content comprises a first audio data wherein the supplemental content comprises a non audio data. Further the method includes converting the supplemental content into converted supplemental content having the relationship to the primary content wherein the converted supplemental content comprises second audio data converted from the non audio data.

Further in another aspect a computer program product for enhancing radio programming comprises a computer readable medium including at least one instruction operable to cause a computer to receive a broadcast radio transmission at a communication device wherein the broadcast radio transmission comprises primary content and supplemental content having a relationship to the primary content wherein the primary content comprises a first audio data wherein the supplemental content comprises a non audio data. Further the computer readable medium also includes at least one instruction operable to cause the computer to convert the supplemental content into converted supplemental content having the relationship to the primary content wherein the converted supplemental content comprises second audio data converted from the non audio data.

In yet another aspect at least one processor for enhancing radio programming comprises a first module for receiving a broadcast radio transmission at a communication device wherein the broadcast radio transmission comprises primary content and supplemental content having a relationship to the primary content wherein the primary content comprises a first audio data wherein the supplemental content comprises a non audio data. Additionally the at least one processor includes a second module for converting the supplemental content into converted supplemental content having the relationship to the primary content wherein the converted supplemental content comprises second audio data converted from the non audio data.

In a further aspect a communications device for enhancing radio programming comprises means for receiving a broadcast radio transmission wherein the broadcast radio transmission comprises primary content and supplemental content having a relationship to the primary content wherein the primary content comprises a first audio data wherein the supplemental content comprises a non audio data. Additionally the device also includes means for converting the supplemental content into converted supplemental content having the relationship to the primary content wherein the converted supplemental content comprises second audio data converted from the non audio data.

In another aspect a communications device for enhancing radio programming comprises a receiver operable to obtain a broadcast radio transmission. The broadcast radio transmission comprises primary content and supplemental content having a relationship to the primary content wherein the primary content comprises a first audio data and the supplemental content comprises a non audio data. Additionally the device includes a data converter operable to change the supplemental content into converted supplemental content having the relationship to the primary content wherein the converted supplemental content comprises second audio data converted from the non audio data.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a communications device or terminal which can be a wired communications device or terminal or a wireless communications device or terminal. A communications device or terminal can also be called a system device subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A wireless communications device or terminal may be a cellular telephone a satellite phone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability a computing device or other processing devices connected to a wireless modem. Moreover various aspects are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal s and may also be referred to as an access point a Node B or some other terminology.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. In particular the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

The apparatus and techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and other systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA. Further cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is a release of UMTS that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Additionally cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . Further such wireless communication systems may additionally include peer to peer e.g. mobile to mobile ad hoc network systems often using unpaired unlicensed spectrums 802.xx wireless LAN BLUETOOTH and any other short or long range wireless communication techniques.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

Referring to in one aspect an enhanced broadcast radio system includes a communication device operable to receive a broadcast radio transmission from a broadcast radio network and output data carried by the transmission for consumption of a user of communication device . For example broadcast radio network may include one or more transmitters of radio programming such as a terrestrial based station and or a satellite based station . Further broadcast radio transmission includes one or more carrier waves carrying primary content and supplemental content which has a relationship to the respective primary content . For example primary content may include radio programming in the form of music talkshows news and or any other audio data. On the other hand supplemental content may include non audio data such as text graphics images video etc. Moreover supplemental content may have one or any combination of the following relationships to primary content an output time relationship e.g. to insure outputting of the respective data on communication device at a certain time relative to one another a descriptive relationship e.g. supplemental content may be data describing primary content and or information related to or associated with primary content and an advertising relationship e.g. supplemental content may comprise an advertisement related to primary content and or an advertisement targeted to a user of communication device and or a general advertisement.

In one use case for example broadcast radio transmission may include a radio broadcast according to a Radio Data System RDS protocol or a Radio Broadcast Data System RBDS protocol both hereinafter referred to as RDS. Based on the RDS protocol transmission includes radio programming referred to herein as primary content and extra digital information such as a name call letters or frequency of the radio station artist and track name etc. referred to herein as supplemental information . As such a properly configured radio receiver can generate audio representing the radio programming and display text representing the extra digital information thereby enhancing the radio listening experience of a user.

Communication device includes a receiver for receiving broadcast radio transmission and transforming it into information for use by communication device . In one particular aspect receiver is configured with RDS decoding capabilities that allow receiver to parse primary content and supplemental content and forward these respective components for rendering by one or more output mechanisms of a user interface .

Recognizing that users who are blind or who have vision impairment may not be able to perceive supplemental content in the form of text on a display communication device further includes a data converter operable to transform non audio data into audio data. In particular data converter is operable to receive supplemental content represented by non audio data and via a data conversion algorithm generate converted supplemental content represented by audio data. For example data converter may include a text to speech module operable to generate audio signal based on converted supplemental content which corresponds to the originally transmitted supplemental content and which maintains the relationship with primary content . Audio signal represents one or more spoken letters numbers and or words originally represented as text. As such audio signal represents speech.

In a further aspect user interface is configured to allow user to perceive a first audible sound representing primary content and a second audible sound representing supplemental content . For example a first user interface such as a first speaker is operable to receive from receiver an audio signal corresponding to primary content while a second user interface such as a second speaker is operable to receive audio signal corresponding to converted supplemental content from data converter . As such speakers and respectively output signals and as sounds and respectively. In one aspect for example sound is music news talk etc. of the radio programming while sound is speech based on converted text describing information having the relationship to the radio programming such as the name call letters or frequency of the radio station the name of the artist and or the track song advertising associated with the programming sources for additional information etc.

Further in some aspects first speaker is physically separated from second speaker to allow separation of sounds and to increase an ability of user to distinguish between the sounds. For example speaker may correspond to a left channel speaker or a left side earphone while speaker may correspond to a right channel speaker or a right side earphone.

Thus system provides apparatus and methods that allow a blind or visually impaired user to have access to supplemental content broadcast along with primary radio programming content thereby allowing for full enjoyment of an enhanced broadcast radio transmission .

Referring to broadcast radio network may include any publicly or privately owned broadcast radio station that provides radio programming such as a frequency modulation FM and or amplitude modulation AM radio station and or a satellite radio station. For example broadcast radio transmission includes modulated radio carrier signals that carry information representative of primary content such as music on a first carrier frequency. Further transmission may additionally include a modulated radio subcarrier signal that carries supplemental information corresponding to the main carrier signal on a second carrier frequency different from the first carrier frequency.

For example in an aspect of an FM band RDS system operating in the United States having channels in the range of about 87.5 MHz to about 108.0 MHz the carrier frequency for primary content may be between about 23 kHz and 53 kHz for stereophonic audio and at 15 kHz or less for monophonic audio while the carrier frequency for supplemental content may be at about 57 kHz and allows 1187.5 bits second data rate. Further for example in an AM band RDS system operating in the United States having channels in the range of about 520 kHz to about 1710 kHz supplemental content may be carried by subcarrier frequencies outside of the human audible range e.g. between about 20 Hz and about 10 kHz such as in a sub audible frequency range. Additionally for example a satellite band RDS system may have channels in the in the gigahertz GHz range. For example in North America satellite radio is broadcast using the 2.3 GHz S band while in other parts of the world satellite radio is broadcast using the 1.4 GHz L band. Further in a satellite band RDS system supplemental content may be referred to as program associated data PAD .

As such referring specifically to radio stations and include a broadcast generator having one or more encoders to encode primary content and supplemental content and one or more transmitters to broadcast the content on respective carrier waves to receivers. Each radio station and may comprise any hardware software firmware modules data and instructions for obtaining primary content and supplemental content and generating broadcast radio transmission . For example in one aspect radio stations and may comprise a radio programming module stored in a memory and executable by a processor to obtain primary content and secondary content and to generate radio programming for transmission by broadcast generator as broadcast radio transmission . In this aspect radio programming includes the primary audio or radio program represented by primary content and the associated enhanced information such as RDS data represented by supplemental content .

For example in an RDS system supplemental content may include any RDS data including but not limited to any one or any combination of alternate frequency AF data clock date and time CT data enhanced other networks EON data program identification PI data program item number PIN data extended country code ECC data program service PS data scrolling program service SPS data program type PTY data program type name PTYN data regional links REG data radio text RT or radio text plus RTplus data travel announcements TA data travel program TP data traffic message channel TMC data music speech switch M S data transparent data channel TDC data radio paging RP data in house application IH data emergency warning system EWS data and data from free format groups such as Open Data Applications ODA .

As such in an RDS system encoder includes an RDS encoder module having any one or any combination of hardware software firmware instructions or algorithms operable to encode supplemental content according to RDS specifications. For example according to the RDS specifications the RDS data is formatted in groups and there are 16 groups divided into A and B types. These groups contain different data such as the different types of supplemental information listed above e.g. PI PS PTY PTYN RT. An RDS encoder at broadcast radio station and or may broadcast various combinations of the groups in a group sequence.

A group is formatted as 104 bits and each group is divided into 4 blocks. A block contains 26 bits and is divided into an Information Word and a Check Word Offset Word. The Information Word contains 16 bits and carries data while the Check Word Offset Word contains 10 bits and is for error correction and synchronization.

Additionally for each group block contains the PI code of the radio station block contains a Group Type Code that identifies the present transmitted group a Version Flag that identifies the group as Type A or Type B a TP flag the PTY and 5 individual bits and blocks and contain group specific data. It should be noted that in B groups the PI code is repeated in block for better synchronization.

Further a special type of group is called an Open Data Applications ODA . ODA groups allow the creation of a huge number of specific applications based on RDS. To use an ODA application a broadcaster sends a 3A group having a 16 bit code of an Application Identification AID to identify the ODA. Further the 3A group includes 5 bits for reporting the groups that are going to be used with the ODA and 16 bits that can be used for sending application related information. For example light applications can be embedded into the last 16 bits of the 3A group. Otherwise the mentioned 5 bit portion specifies the other groups that are to be used for sending information where the other groups may include 3B 4B 5B 6B 7B 8B 9B 10B 11A 11B 12A 12B and 13B. Suitably equipped target receivers can recognize the AID code and decode it in order to launch the application and access ODA information. The AID code is formally requested from the NAB National Broadcasters Association in North America and the EBU European Broadcasters Union in Europe to insure the required coordination and interoperability among RDS enabled receivers.

Referring back to and additionally to as previously noted communication device is configured to receive and decode broadcast radio transmission convert non audio supplemental content to audio based converted supplemental content and generate sounds and respectively representative of primary content and supplemental content .

More specifically although communication device is illustrated as a cellular telephone it should be understood that communication device may include any computerized device capable of receiving broadcast signals. Thus system may include one or more wired or wireless communication devices which may include a cellular telephone a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a satellite telephone a palm computer a Personal Communication Services PCS device a portable gaming or music device etc.

Further user interface of communication device includes at least one input device for generating inputs into communication device and at least one output device for generating information for consumption by user of the communication device . For example input device may include one or any combination of mechanisms such as a key keypad and or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects an input device provides for user input to interact with an application program or module such as an AM FM Satellite radio player module a wireless services module and other applications discussed below. Further for example output device may include but is not limited to one or any combination of audio speakers and display a haptic feedback mechanism such as a vibrator etc. Additionally user interface may include one or more output ports for example to which one or more remote output devices such as speakers or earphones and may be wired or wirelessly connected to receive audio signals and . For example output ports may include a mechanical connector infrared transmitter receiver BLUETOOTH transmitter receiver IEEE 802.11x transmitter receiver etc.

Further user interface may be part of or may be connected to a computer platform that includes a memory having one or more modules programs or applications executable by a processor and interacting with user interface and a communications interface module .

Processor controls the operation of communications device for example in cooperation with applications programs modules stored in memory . The control functions may be implemented for example in a single microprocessor or in multiple microprocessors. Suitable microprocessors may include general purpose and special purpose microprocessors as well as digital signal processors. Further for example processor may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset logic circuit or other data processing device. In some aspects processor or other data processing device such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident applications programs or modules stored in memory . For example API may be a runtime environment executing on communication device . One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications programs modules on a computing device.

Additionally processor may interface with or include one or more audio processor modules which provide output signals and to speakers and respectively and receives audio inputs from microphone . For example audio processor module which may include or cooperate with data converter may include one or any combination of hardware software firmware instructions or algorithms operable to process primary content and supplemental content or converted supplemental content to generate audio signals and . It should be noted that primary content and converted supplemental content may be in either the same or in different audio formats which can be recognized by audio processor module and used to forward and or generate audio signals appropriate for a given output device such as speakers and .

Memory represents any type of memory associated with communications device . For example memory includes one or any combination of random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM erasable ROM EPROM electronically erasable ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. For example computer program instructions codes and or data utilized in the operation of communications device may be stored in non volatile memory such as EPROM EEPROM and or flash memory. Additionally memory may be implemented as discrete devices stacked devices or may be integrated with processor . Memory may also include areas partitioned into and designated for use as temporary memory buffers which may store data for rendering to user interface and or for use with any resident applications programs or modules stored in or executed from memory . Further memory may store AM FM Satellite radio player module and the received or generated contents such as primary content supplemental content and converted supplemental content which are used by processor in operating communication device .

Additionally communications interface module enables receipt of broadcast radio transmission and in some aspects further allows for transmission and receipt of wireless communication messages with a wireless communication network or with other wireless devices . For example in one aspect communications interface module includes one or more transceivers e.g. transmitter and receiver components coupled to one or more antennas for transmitting and receiving short range radio signals for example to and from nearby devices and or long range radio signals for example to and from one or more base stations in a wireless communications network . Transceiver may operate according to any known standard including CDMA cdmaOne cdma2000 UMTS Wideband CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM TIA EIA 136 BLUETOOTH UMB WiMax Wi Fi IEEE 802.11x etc. Additionally it should be noted that output ports may be part of or may interconnect with communications interface module .

Receiver may be included within transceiver and receives and demodulates radio broadcast signal transmitted by broadcast radio network . For example receiver may be configured to filter and demodulate RDS based FM AM or satellite radio broadcasts for output to the user over speakers and . As such in one aspect receiver may include an RDS decoder module having any one or any combination of hardware software firmware instructions or algorithms operable according to RDS system standards to parse primary content and supplemental content and to decode the supplemental content.

As discussed above communications device includes data converter having any one or any combination of hardware software firmware instructions or algorithms such as text to speech module having a speech synthesizer operable to change supplemental content to converted supplemental content . For example text to speech module and or speech synthesizer include hardware software and or algorithms operable to generate audio signal representing human speech created by concatenating pieces of recorded speech that are stored in a database such as in memory and or by implementing a model of the vocal tract and other human voice characteristics to create a completely synthetic voice output. As such data converter converts the originally received non audio data into an audio data representing supplemental content to allow a user to experience non visual supplemental content when the user cannot see or view output device but can hear an audible output from communication device . Although illustrated as a part of processor data converter may be embodied in one or more places anywhere on computer platform .

Additionally in some alternate aspects data converter may include hardware software firmware instructions or algorithms operable to convert audio data such as primary content or such as some forms of supplemental content to text or image data for display on output device . As such data converter may further allow communication device to convert audio data to text image data to allow a user to experience the audio data when they cannot hear but can see an output from communication device .

To receive and act upon broadcast radio transmission in one aspect computer device may execute AM FM Satellite radio player module to tune to a particular radio channel of a broadcast radio station of interest. For example AM FM Satellite radio player module may include one or any combination of hardware software firmware instructions or algorithms operable to generate interactive graphical user interfaces on display that allows user to tune to radio stations save favorite stations adjust volume of sounds and save supplemental content to memory for later recall and to perform any other interactions involved with listening to a radio broadcast.

In other aspects computer device may execute wireless services module to exchange messages with wireless communication network and or other devices and to access information on other networks such as the Internet. For example wireless services module may include one or any combination of hardware software firmware instructions or algorithms operable to provide communication device with one or any combination of services such as a voice call application a data call application a messaging application a group call application a multimedia music and or video application a personal information manager etc.

Additionally in other aspects computer device may execute other applications operable to provide any other functionality to communication device such as calendar applications calculators business or computing applications and any other functionality operable on a computerized device.

In operation communication device may be utilized to allow a blind or visually impaired user to perceive supplemental content of an enhanced radio broadcast such as transmission .

As such in one aspect a method of enhancing radio programming for the blind or visually impaired comprises receiving a broadcast radio transmission at a communication device Block . The broadcast radio transmission includes primary content and supplemental content having a relationship to the primary content wherein the primary content comprises a first audio data and the supplemental content comprises a non audio data.

In some aspects the receiving may include receiving primary content on a first frequency and receiving the supplemental content on a second frequency. More specifically for example in some aspects the receiving includes receiving a radio program signal carried on a first frequency modulated radio wave having a first carrier frequency and receiving radio data system information carried on a second frequency modulated radio wave having a second carrier frequency different from the first carrier frequency.

Alternatively in other aspects the receiving may include receiving a radio program signal carried on a first amplitude modulated radio wave having a first carrier frequency and receiving radio data system information carried on a second amplitude modulated radio wave having a second carrier frequency different from the first carrier frequency wherein the second carrier frequency is outside of an audible frequency range such as in a subaudible frequency range.

Further it should be noted that the relationship between the primary content and the supplemental content may include one or any combination of an output time relationship a descriptive relationship and or an advertising relationship. Further in an RDS system implementation the primary content may be radio programming and the supplemental content may be textual information such as radio text.

Additionally the method may including converting the supplemental content into converted supplemental content having the relationship to the primary content wherein the converted supplemental content comprises second audio data converted from the non audio data Block . For example the method may include processing of the supplemental content by a speech synthesizer to convert the non audible data such as text data to audible data such as speech. Further in a RDS system implementation the primary content may be radio programming such as music talk news etc. and the supplemental content may be radio text which is converted to speech.

Additionally the method may include generating a first audio signal comprising a representation of the primary content according to the first audio data and generating a second audio signal comprising a representation of the supplemental content according to the second audio data Block .

In some aspects the generating includes generating the first audio signal further comprises processing the first audio data according to a primary audio format and wherein generating the second audio signal further comprises processing the second audio data according to a supplemental audio format. Further for example the primary audio format may be different from or the same as the supplemental audio format.

Optionally the method may include storing data such as the received content the converted supplemental content and or the generated audio signals Block . For example any data received or generated by communication device in carrying out the method may be stored at any time.

Additionally the method may include outputting on a first audio channel a first audio representation of the primary content according to the first audio data and outputting on a second audio channel a second audio representation of the supplemental content according to the second audio data wherein the second audio channel is different from the first audio channel Block .

In some aspects the outputting may include outputting on the first audio channel further comprises outputting on a left audio channel or a right audio channel and wherein outputting on the second audio channel further comprises outputting on an opposite one of the left audio channel or the right audio channel.

In other aspects the outputting may include outputting on a first user interface a first audio representation of the primary content according to the first audio data and outputting on a second user interface a second audio representation of the supplemental content according to the second audio data wherein the second user interface is different from the first user interface.

Thus the described aspects include apparatus and methods of enhancing radio programming for the blind or visually impaired.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

