---

title: Systems and methods for creation, issuance, redemption, conversion, offering, trading, and clearing a debt obligation convertible into cash plus a spot foreign exchange contract that is priced to reflect the value of the debt obligation in a base currency in relation to the value of a reference currency
abstract: Securities trading systems and methods for creating, issuing, offering, trading, redeeming, converting, and clearing a novel debt obligation convertible into cash plus a foreign exchange spot or forward contract that is priced to reflect the value of the debt obligation in a base currency in relation to the value of a reference currency. In the system, an order book server aggregates bid and offer information for the debt obligations. Best bid and offer information is communicated to one or more trading terminals. The trading terminals are capable of displaying best bid and offer and other information relevant to trading, redeeming, and converting the debt obligations in real time and allow a trader to trade, redeem, and convert C-Notes™ by interacting with the display on the trading terminal. The order book server and issuer calculate and track accrued interest on the debt obligations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08429057&OS=08429057&RS=08429057
owner: Curex Innovations LLC
number: 08429057
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081119
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 989 023 filed on Nov. 19 2007 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 013 524 filed on Dec. 13 2007 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to computer implemented methods and systems for offering and trading securities. More specifically embodiments of the present invention relate to computer based systems and methods for creating issuing offering trading redeeming converting and clearing a novel debt obligation convertible into cash plus a foreign exchange FX spot or forward contract that is priced to reflect the value of the debt obligation in a base currency in relation to the value of a reference currency.

The currency market represents one of the world s largest financial markets. One reason investors purchase foreign currencies is to manage foreign exchange risk exposure. For example United States residents going to visit a European country on vacation have the risk that if that if the Euro EUR appreciates against the United States Dollar USD their vacation will be more expensive. Exporters who sell products in foreign currency have the risk that if the value of that foreign currency falls then the revenues in the exporter s home currency will be lower. An importer who buys goods priced in foreign currency has the risk that the foreign currency will appreciate and make the local currency cost greater than expected.

Fund managers and companies who own foreign assets are also regularly exposed to changes in currency exchange rates. For example a mutual fund manager who purchases foreign securities in a foreign currency for a mutual fund that is traded in a home currency must take into account fluctuations in currency exchange rates in managing the assets of the mutual fund. A large number of investors also invest in foreign currencies for speculative purposes i.e. to profit from accurately predicting changes in currency rates.

In every foreign exchange transaction one currency is purchased and another currency is sold. The currencies that are purchased and sold in a foreign exchange transaction are also referred to as a currency pair. A currency pair consists of a base currency and a reference currency. EUR USD is an example of a currency pair. In this example the base currency is EUR and its value remains constant at one EUR. The reference currency is USD. The value of the reference currency fluctuates up and down relative to the base currency. For example if the EUR USD currency pair is quoted at 1.1500 it means that one EUR costs USD 1.1500. Likewise if the EUR USD currency pair increases to 1.2000 the same EUR is now equivalent to USD 1.2000.

Currency transactions can be quoted in one of two ways American terms in which a currency is quoted in terms of the number of United States Dollar per unit of foreign currency e.g. how many USD to buy 1 EUR and in European terms in which one United States Dollar is quoted in terms of number of units of foreign currency per dollar e.g. how many Euro to buy 1 USD . The same logic can be applied to currency pairs in which the USD is not one of the currencies. Either currency can be expressed in terms of the other. However there are generally accepted conventions in the inter bank foreign exchange marketplace that have been adopted by most of the foreign exchange marketplace. For example the EUR USD pair is quoted in American Terms and the Swiss Franc is quoted in European Terms.

In currency trading a long position refers to entering into a contract to buy a base currency in exchange for a set amount of reference currency at a set time in the future. A trader may speculate that the price of a base currency will increase relative to the value of the reference currency by entering into a long position. A short position in currency trading means that the trader has entered into a contract to sell a set amount of base currency in exchange for a set amount of reference currency. A trader may speculate that the price of a base currency will decrease relative to the value of the reference currency by entering into a short position.

Foreign exchange FX transactions are offered as FX spot transactions or FX forward transactions. FX spot transactions are exchanges of one currency for another for immediate delivery. FX spot transactions are conducted at an exchange rate for immediate delivery known as the spot rate. Immediate delivery in the spot market is generally two business days which is called the value date. The two day settlement period is necessary to allow for trade processing and for currency payments to be wired around the world.

FX forward transactions are exchanges of one currency for another at a future date. FX forward transactions are conducted at a forward rate which is the exchange rate available at the time of the purchase of the FX forward transaction for exchanging currency at some specified date in the future. The forward rate is a function of both the spot rate and the difference in interest rates that could be earned in money markets or bond markets in the respective two countries. The difference between a forward exchange rate and a spot exchange rate represents the benefit or disadvantage an investor would experience should they convert in the spot market from one currency represented in the pair to the other and hold the new currency earning interest at a risk free rate. To the extent that there is an economic advantage associated with a higher interest rate in the new currency such advantage is reflected in the price of the FX forward transaction. The discount or premium to the spot price in an FX forward transaction of the same pair is typically referred to as the carry or cost of carry. 

The foreign exchange market operates five days per week on a 24 hour trade date basis beginning at 5 p.m. Eastern Standard Time EST Sunday. A trading day begins at 5 p.m. EST and ending the next day at 5 p.m. EST. For example on a Monday spot currencies are trading for value on Wednesday assuming no holidays . At 5 p.m. EST on Monday the trade date becomes Tuesday and the value date becomes Thursday. A position opened on Monday at 5 p.m. EST is either closed or rolled over to the next value date before the end of trading day on Tuesday. In this example a one day rollover involves the open position being rolled over from a value date of Wednesday to that of Thursday.

Rollover transactions are effectuated by making two offsetting trades that result in the same open position. However when making rollover transactions the rate at which a currency pair is quoted can change. These changes represent the difference in interest rates between the two currencies in the trader s open position applied in currency rate terms i.e. one day of carry or cost of carry . They constitute net interest earned or paid by the trader depending on the direction of the trader s position. Assuming there is no change in the spot exchange rate for the currency pair a trader can earn money in a rollover transaction if the trader holds a long position in the currency with the higher interest rate and holds a short position in the currency with the lower interest rate. Conversely a trader can lose money in a rollover transaction if the trader holds a short position in the currency with the higher interest rate and holds a long position in the currency with the lower interest rate.

Exchange traded funds ETFs offer public investors an undivided interest in a pool of securities or other assets and thus are similar in many ways to traditional mutual funds except that shares in an ETF can be bought and sold throughout the day like stocks on a securities exchange through a broker dealer. Unlike traditional mutual funds traders and investors participating in a secondary market can buy and sell ETFs without having to redeem their individual shares at net asset value or NAV. Instead financial institutions or other qualified investors purchase and redeem ETF shares directly from the ETF in the primary market but only in large blocks. In the case of currency ETFs financial institutions or other qualified investors convert currency holdings to shares that trade in a publicly tradeable marketplace. It is recognized these have been developed and are substantially different from embodiments the present invention.

In 2005 Rydex Investments launched the first ever currency ETF called the Euro Currency Trust NYSE FXE in New York. Since then Rydex has launched a series of funds tracking all major currencies under their brand CurrencyShares. In 2008 Deutsche Bank s db x trackers launched Sterling Money Market ETF LSE XGBP and US Dollar Money Market ETF LSE XUSD in London.

Currency ETFs do not require rollover transactions to maintain currency positions but they have disadvantages inherent in their structure. Currency ETF shares are priced to the foreign exchange rate plus interest which creates tracking error from the currency price being traded. They also do not trade on the 24 hour per day trading cycle of the foreign exchange markets and are therefore more difficult to redeem. They also are quoted in a convention not consistent with the interbank market and with settlement periods not consistent with the foreign exchange interbank market. For this reason they may have a value that may track the value of currency but cannot be considered fungible with spot FX contracts or forward contracts. Their lack of fungibility means they suffer from far less volume less institutional participation in trading and price discovery and have greater risk of price tracking error. Inherently Currency ETFs are not an efficient vehicle to trade currencies or baskets of currencies as a security.

Currency ETFs also have disadvantages in the way that interest is paid. With currency ETFs interest is earned in a reference currency and then converted into the base currency at some unknown rate close in time to the date on which dividends are paid typically monthly and then distributed to shareholders which exposes currency ETF investors to additional foreign currency exposure on accrued interest.

There are also currency Exchange Traded Notes ETNs that have been developed. ETNs are debt securities backed by an issuer that are designed to provide investors access to returns of various benchmarks. Though linked to the performance of a market benchmark ETNs are not equities or index funds but they do share several characteristics of the latter. Similar to equities they are traded on an exchange and can be shorted. Similar to index fund they are linked to the return of a benchmark index. But as debt securities ETNs do not actually own anything they are tracking.

There are currency ETNs that have been developed to attempt to provide investors with returns of certain currency benchmarks. But currency ETNs are subject to risk of default by the issuing bank as counter party. Currency ETNs also share many of the same disadvantages of currency ETFs inclduing that currency ETNs have disadvantages in the way that interest is paid and the way it is included in the price of the instrument making it more difficult for the trader to determine the accuracy of the instruments tracking of the value of underlying assets they are more difficult to redeem they can be redeemed only in the primary market and are not fungible with FX spot and forward transactions. This is due to the fact that an ETN is redeemable in the primary market for an amount equal to an index making the ETN very accurate at tracking the index but this index may temporarily diverge in value from the underlying asset it seeks to track thus marking it more difficult to arbitrage price to the actual underlying asset. To effect such a price arbitrage the trader would have to add an extra step of arbitraging the price of the index to the underlying assets it seeks to track thus adding complexity and cost to the process.

The global FX marketplace is estimated to transact over four trillion USD per day. Much of that volume is concentrated on a few pairs such as the EUR USD and Japanese Yen. Rather than one centralized regulated marketplace the global FX market consists of many fragmented unregulated over the counter pools of liquidity which can range from a single counterparty to counterparty market to a pool of liquidity providers competing for order flow from liquidity takers in an electronic order matching electronic network. The nature of the fragmentation of the global FX marketplace means it is possible that a single currency pair can trade at different prices in different markets at the same time. It is desirable for the purpose of price transparency liquidity and market confidence to provide methods and systems to attract traders for purpose of transparent price discovery and to add liquidity to the global FX marketplace especially in currency pairs that do not enjoy the liquidity that exists in major currency pairs such as that of the US Dollar Euro and Japanese Yen.

Accordingly it is desirable to provide methods and systems for maintaining currency exposure that enable investors to maintain currency exposure without having to effectuate rollover transactions which trade on the 24 hour per day trading cycle of the foreign exchange markets are structured and traded so that they more closely priced to track spot transactions in a given currency pair and are easier to redeem in a manner consistent with the inter bank convention such that FX traders or investors may consider their value to be fungible for a spot FX contract. Such fungibility for a spot FX contract would attract greater institutional participation greater volume for more effective price discovery and bring more transparency to global foreign exchange markets through the natural profit motive of price discovery arbitrage benefiting participants in both primary and secondary securities markets as well as governments who issue such currency and wish to have orderly liquid markets in their base currency unit.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to overcoming the disadvantages of traditional rollover foreign exchange transactions and currency ETFs by providing computer based systems and methods for creating issuing offering trading and redeeming converting and clearing a debt obligation convertible into cash plus a spot foreign exchange contract or a forward foreign exchange contract that is priced to reflect the value of the debt obligation in a base currency in relation to the value of a reference currency. Applicant s affiliated entities refer to a preferred embodiment of such convertible debt obligations by the trade name C Notes .

C Notes are variable return convertible debt securities that are preferably issued by one or more money center banks central banks or sovereign debt issuers of investment grade and are structured to track the price of a base currency in terms of a reference currency and deliver returns of its base currency s corresponding overnight money market interest rate relative to the reference currency s corresponding overnight money market interest rate i.e. carry . C Notes can also be structured to track the price of a group of base currencies in terms of a group of reference currencies and deliver returns of their base currencies corresponding overnight money market interest rate relative to the reference currencies corresponding overnight money market interest rate

The systems and methods by which the resultant difference between the spot currency pair foreign exchange price and a forward currency pair foreign exchange price in the reference currency carry can be added to a reference money market rate earned in the currency in which the C Notes is quoted and traded to achieve a rate that may be similar to the yield that could otherwise be earned in the money markets of the base currency. Derivative securities or other derivatives of the C Notes can be created and traded on public exchanges over the counter OTC markets and direct counterparty markets. The methods and systems described herein can also be used for the purpose of replicating valuation movements in equities or groups of equities debt products or groups of debt products commodities or groups of commodities or alternative assets or groups of alternative assets in the futures spot or physical delivery markets which can include other costs of carry such as shipping costs or storage costs.

It is an object of the present invention to provide methods and systems for maintaining currency exposure that enable investors to maintain currency exposure without having to effectuate rollover transactions which trade on the 24 hour per day trading cycle of the foreign exchange markets are structured and traded so that they more closely priced to track spot transactions in a given currency pair and are easier to redeem.

These and other objects are achieved in the present invention of methods and systems for offering trading and redeeming converting and clearing a debt obligation convertible into cash plus a spot foreign exchange contract or a forward foreign exchange contract that is priced to reflect the value of the debt obligation in a base currency in relation to the value of a reference currency.

In the system an order book server aggregates bid and offer information for C Notes . Best bid and offer information is communicated to one or more trading terminals. The trading terminals are capable of displaying best bid and offer and other information relevant to trading redeeming and converting the C Notes . The trading terminals allow a trader to trade redeem and convert C Notes by interacting with the display on the trading terminal. The server can segment and organize best bid offer by price size or other user defined metrics and distinguish between bid offers relating to the issuance creation and conversion redemption of C Notes in the primary market e.g. issuer to qualified institutional investor or in a secondary market where C Notes are transacted between counterparties who either make liquidity or take liquidity with no creation or redemptions.

The order book server calculates accrued interest on the C Notes . Accrued interest for C Notes that are denominated in USD can be calculated by adding the effective Fed Funds Overnight rate or similar overnight money market or repo market rate to the difference between the effective Overnight Rate central bank rate or repo market rate of the base currency and the effective Overnight Rate central bank rate or repo market rate of the reference currency.

C Notes have a term and mature for a value at the end of the term equal to the face value plus or minus accrued interest. For example a one year term 100 EUR USD C Notes priced at 150.0000 USD pays 100 EUR at maturity at the end of one year plus or minus accrued interest.

C Notes can be traded in secondary markets. When traded before the end of the term the trader who sells C Notes on the secondary market receives cash plus or minus accrued interest for the period of the term in which the trader held the C Notes since the last interest payment. At any time during the term C Notes also can be converted to spot or forward foreign exchange contracts in real time plus cash equal to face value or a portion thereof if acquired on margin or levered basis.

According to one embodiment a computer implemented method is provided for offering a debt obligation. The method can comprise the steps of i receiving communication at an order book server of an offer to sell the debt obligation the debt obligation having a term that is priced in a base currency in relation to the value of reference currency where the debt obligation is convertible into a foreign exchange contract with a currency pair of the base currency and the reference currency of the debt obligation ii communicating the offer to sell the debt obligation to one or more trader terminals iii receiving an offer to purchase the debt obligation from one of the one or more trader terminals and iv calculating accrued interest on the debt obligation at the order book server at issuance and during the term of the debt obligation. The communication of the offer to sell that is received at the trading terminal can be made in response to a request to an issuer to offer a tranche of debt obligations having the term and that are priced in the base currency in relation to the value of the reference currency.

According to another embodiment a computer implemented method is provided for converting a debt obligation having an amount that is priced in a base currency in relation to the value of a reference currency into a foreign exchange spot or forward transaction in the base currency and the reference currency of the debt obligation. The method can comprise the steps of i receiving on an order book server a communication of a request to convert the debt obligation from a trader terminal of a trader holding the debt obligation ii electronically communicating the request to convert in real time to a foreign exchange prime broker iiii calculating accrued interest on the debt obligation for the length of the term that the trader held the debt obligation iv causing funds to be wired from the trader s account to the foreign exchange prime broker or other counterparty for the foreign exchange spot or forward transaction to secure a foreign exchange spot or forward contract the funds calculated by the order book server as the amount of the debt obligation plus or minus accrued interest over the period that the trader held the debt obligation v receiving confirmation at the order book server from a foreign exchange prime broker or other counterparty to the foreign exchange spot or forward contract that the request to convert has been executed and vi communicating confirmation of the request to convert to the trader terminal.

In any of the aforementioned embodiments the accrued interest can be calculated by adding one of an effective Fed Funds Overnight rate overnight money market or repo market rate for the base currency to the difference between the effective Overnight Rate central bank rate or repo market rate of the base currency and the effective Overnight Rate central bank rate or repo market rate of the reference currency. The accrued interest can be calculated daily. The can be calculated in real time based on a current repo market rate allowing for intra day interest calculation and interest payments paid daily or every two days according to an interbank settlement system. The accrued interest can be positive or negative.

According to another embodiment a system is provided for trading a debt obligations having terms that are priced in a base currency in relation to the value of a reference currency into cash equivalent to the base currency price and a foreign exchange spot or forward transaction in the base currency and the reference currency of the debt obligation. The system can comprise an order book server configured to communicate with one or more trading terminals one or more issuer servers and one or more foreign exchange prime brokers. The order book server can be programmed to i receive communications of offers to sell and buy the debt obligations from the one or more trader terminals or the one or more issuer servers ii communicate the offers to sell and buy the debt obligations to one or more trader terminals iii receive an offer to purchase the debt obligation from one of the one or more trader terminals and iv calculate accrued interest on the debt obligation.

According to particular embodiments the order book server can be programmed further to receive and execute requests to convert the debt obligation to a spot or forward foreign exchange transaction. The order book server can be programmed further to effect redemption of the debt obligation at the end of the term. The order book server can be programmed further to calculate the accrued interest daily. The order book server can be programmed further to calculate the accrued interest in real time based on a current repo market rate allowing for intra day interest calculation and interest payments paid daily or every two days according to an interbank settlement system. The system can further comprise a centralized clearing body that communicates with the order book server to clear and settle transactions in the debt obligations. The centralized clearing body can include a centralized clearing corporation a consortium of clearing corporations a central bank a consortium of central banks a sovereign a consortium of sovereigns a sovereign sponsored corporation a consortium of sovereign sponsored corporations a supranational entity or a consortium of supranational entities. The centralized clearing body can comprise the order book server.

Preferably C Notes convertible debt obligations are issued in response to an order bid from a qualified institutional investor s . Qualified institutional investors can include Accredited Investors as defined in Regulation D promulgated under the United States Securities Act of 1933 and or Qualified Purchasers as defined in United States Securities Act of 1933. However C Notes can be issued to other types of investors as well.

Investors in C Notes preferably have an account in good standing with an FX prime broker broker or be able to conduct counterparty to counterparty transactions in the interbank foreign exchange marketplace. The institutional investor or their FX prime broker broker can have active trading lines with an issuer of C Notes be a financial institution who may act as a recognized counterparty to an issuer of C Notes or the issuer s foreign exchange prime broker or otherwise have an account in good standing with the C Notes issuer or the issuer s foreign exchange prime broker. For purposes of engaging in secondary market transactions it is preferred that qualified institutional investors have an account in good standing with a clearing broker dealer or introductory broker dealer who facilitates an account with a clearing broker dealer .

The order book server is configured and programmed to communicate with multiple issuers and via their respective servers and . Order book server is configured and programmed to aggregate best bid and best offer information for the C Notes convertible debt obligation and FX spot trades that can be executed according to particular embodiments of the invention. The aggregate best bid and offer information is communicated to trading terminals and as well as any other trading terminals in communication with order book server . Order book server also contains a module that executes the process of matching trades of C Notes in primary and secondary markets.

The order book server communicates with a market data server and back office server . Market data server obtains information on interest rates used to calculate accrued interest as discussed below. Back office server records trading data for C Notes trades. As one of skill in the art will readily appreciate order book server market data server and back office server can be configured in many different ways. For example the functionality of order book server market data server and back office server can be combined into a single server as depicted in which performs the functions of order book server market data server and back office server .

Order book server also communicates with the computer systems of one or more FX prime brokers in real time. The real time connections between order book server and FX prime brokers and enable embodiments of the convertible debt obligation to be convertible into FX spot transactions in the currency pair that the debt obligation is created to track. Alternatively a convertible debt obligations can be converted into FX forward transactions. The computer systems of FX prime brokers and also are in communication issuers of C Notes e.g. issuers and . FX prime brokers and also include any counterparty that can guarantee a FX spot or forward transaction.

In particular embodiments the order book server can also communicate with one or more computer systems of clearing brokers introducing brokers and centralized clearing bodies in real time. Clearing broker systems perform the settlement of C Notes transactions and communicate confirmations of settlement to the order book server . The introducing systems communicate directly with the order book server for executing orders for C Notes . The centralized clearing body communicates with the order book server for the purpose of clearing and settling transactions in C Notes . For example a centralized clearing body can guarantee payment and delivery of all aspects of primary secondary and or conversion of C Notes transactions. The centralized clearing body can be integrated into the back office server providing an interface between counterparties. Accordingly the centralized clearing body can ensure that the counterparties make efficient markets and guarantee smooth markets in the event i one party fails to deliver or make payment on an obligation inherent in the structure of the instrument or ii failure of technology associated in the effecting of the market place of the invention.

A centralized computer based clearing body can include a centralized clearing corporation a consortium of clearing corporations a central bank a consortium of central banks a sovereign a consortium of sovereigns a sovereign sponsored corporation a consortium of sovereign sponsored corporations a supranational entity or a consortium of supranational entities. The functionality of one or more of the order book server market data server and back office server can be separate from or integrated into the computerized systems of the centralized clearing body itself. Where the system includes a centralized clearing body the back office server records and maintains all transactions of all outstanding C Notes debt obligations including conversions.

The above described system as represented in can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The implementation can be as a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Method steps as described below can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions of the invention by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps can also be performed by and apparatus can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor receives instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Data transmission and instructions can also occur over a communications network. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

The terms module and function as used herein mean but are not limited to a software or hardware component which performs certain tasks. A module may advantageously be configured to reside on addressable storage medium and configured to execute on one or more processors. A module may be fully or partially implemented with a general purpose integrated circuit IC FPGA or ASIC. Thus a module may include by way of example components such as software components object oriented software components class components and task components processes functions attributes procedures subroutines segments of program code drivers firmware microcode circuitry data databases data structures tables arrays and variables. The functionality provided for in the components and modules may be combined into fewer components and modules or further separated into additional components and modules. Additionally the components and modules may advantageously be implemented on many different platforms including computers computer servers data communications infrastructure equipment such as application enabled switches or routers or telecommunications infrastructure equipment such as public or private telephone switches or private branch exchanges PBX . In any of these cases implementation may be achieved either by writing applications that are native to the chosen platform or by interfacing the platform to one or more external application engines.

To provide for interaction with a user trading terminals and can be computers having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer e.g. interact with a user interface element . Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The above described system can be implemented in a distributed computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server and or a middleware component e.g. an application server and or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface and or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an example implementation or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components.

The components of the system described above can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communications e.g. a communications network. Examples of communications networks also referred to as communications channels include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and include both wired and wireless networks. Unless clearly indicated otherwise communications networks can also include all or a portion of the PSTN for example a portion owned by a specific carrier.

The computing system of as described above includes clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communications network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other

Column in order entry screen lists a currency pair for a spot FX trade followed by its corresponding convertible debt obligation of one embodiment of the present invention. For example row presents information for a EUR USD spot FX transaction while row presents information for the convertible debt obligation of one embodiment of the present invention corresponding to the EUR USD currency pair the EURUSDCN i.e. EUR USD C Notes . Column also lists other currency pair spot FX transactions followed by its corresponding convertible debt obligation.

Sell column contains areas to enter sell transactions for the currency pair for a spot FX transaction or the debt obligation of one embodiment of the present invention listed in column in the row corresponding to a particular entry area in sell column . The sell amount can be set using the drop down list in column . Column contains the bid price and bid quantity corresponding to the currency spot FX transaction or convertible debt obligation in the corresponding rows of column . Column contains the ask price and ask quantity corresponding to the currency spot FX transaction or convertible debt obligation in the corresponding rows of column . The buy amount can be set using the drop down list in column and buy column contains areas to enter buy transactions the currency pair for a spot FX transaction or the debt obligation of one embodiment of the present invention listed in column in the row corresponding to a particular entry area in buy column . Preferably areas for entry of buy and sell orders in columns and provide for single click order entry.

The O type column identifies whether the debt obligation of one embodiment of the present invention listed in column is being offered in the primary or secondary market. Column provides information on what the trader s position is in the spot FX transactions and convertible debt obligations of one embodiment of the present invention listed in column . Column corresponds to the average rate of a position. Column contains entry areas to enable the trader to close out positions. The order entry screen of also contains a column not shown in that contains areas for converting the convertible debt obligations of one embodiment of the present invention into FX spot of future transactions that correspond to particular C Notes .

Tab provides the trader with another way of viewing open positions and tab enables the trader to view pending orders. As will be appreciated by persons of skill in the art information related to trading the spot and forward FX transactions and C Notes of one embodiment of the present invention other than what is depicted in can be presented as well.

C Notes can also be created when trader using trading terminal makes a deposit of sufficient funds to enable an issuer e.g. issuer to create a tranche of C Notes . The deposit of funds is communicated to the issuer via the order book server but can be communicated directly to the issuer.

Upon the acceptance and confirmation of such a notification a settlement date would be set when funds would be due from the trader and when the C Notes would be delivered by the issuer. The settlement period corresponding to the settlement date for a C Notes currency pair is preferably equal to the settlement period for the corresponding currency pair in the interbank foreign exchange market. For example a EUR USD currency pair typically has a settlement period of two days in the interbank spot FX market. The EUR USD C Notes can also have the same settlement period in a primary or secondary market.

In order to offer or issue C Notes the base currency and reference must be determined. For EUR USD C Notes the EUR is the base currency and the USD is the reference currency. A market price must also be set for the C Notes . The C Notes is designed so that its market price is expected to track 100 times the interbank FX spot exchange rate as quoted in accordance with standard interbank conventions.

In step the offer of an issuer e.g. issuer is communicated to order book server via the issuer s server e.g. issuer server . In step order book server communicates the issuer s offer to the trading terminal of trader and the terminals of any other traders who have trading terminals in communication with order book server . In step traders and receive offers on trading terminals and . In step trader enters an order to buy the 100 Euro C Notes on trading terminal and delivers 150.00000 USD accrued interest or a commitment to pay such amount to the issuer server for example via the order book server. In step the issuer delivers 100 Euro C Notes . In step the order book server communicates confirmation of the 100 EUR C Notes purchase to trading terminal of trader and to the server of issuer . In step the order book server communicates market data for the transaction to the market data server . In step order book server communicates data concerning order executions and confirmations to back office server . In step when the C Notes reaches maturity at the end of the one year term of the C Notes and is redeemed and issuer pays 100 Euro to trader plus or minus accrued interest.

Order book server is configured and programmed to perform calculations of accrued interest. Alternatively market data server office server and or trading terminals e.g. trading terminal are configured and programmed to perform accrued interest calculations. Issuers must also keep track of accrued interest through communications between the order book server and issuer servers or issuers can make their own accrued interest calculations at their own servers.

Accrued interest is calculated at issuance redemption and conversion of C Notes C Notes that are denominated in USD can calculate accrued interest by adding the effective Fed Funds Overnight rate or similar overnight money market or repo market rate to the difference between the effective Overnight Rate central bank rate or repo market rate of the base currency and the effective Overnight Rate central bank rate or repo market rate of the reference currency. Accrued interest can be calculated daily and paid preferably monthly or some other period . Accrued interest can be calculated for other periods as well. For example accrued interest can be calculated in real time based on a current repo market rate allowing for intra day interest calculation and payments that can be paid daily or every two day matching an interbank settlement system. A repo otherwise referred to as repurchase agreements RP or a sale and repurchase agreement has a borrower seller cash receiver sell securities for cash to a lender buyer cash provider and agree to repurchase those securities at a later date for more cash. The repo rate is the difference between borrowed and paid back cash expressed as a percentage.

Accrued interest can be negative even at issuance. However investors are not disadvantaged by negative accrued interest because any negative accrued interest is offset by payment to the investor at purchase and reflects the true cost of carry during the holding period for which the investor has invested in C Notes . At maturity any negative carry can be deducted from principal repayment to investors.

The order book server can receive data from C Notes issuers servers via Application Programming Interfaces API with respect to calculation of accrued interest calculations. These calculations can approximate the C Notes Issuer s calculation of Effective Fed Funds Overnight rate plus or minus Carry. This data can be stored in the order book server and also can be stored in the market data server or the back office server and fed into various algorithms to calculate price and contract values in the order management display and execution software programs that can reside on the server.

In step trader uses trading terminal to enter an order to convert his 100 EUR C Notes to an FX spot transaction on a date at any time after initial purchase on the primary or secondary market e.g. 6 months . In step a trading terminal communicates the conversion instruction in real time to order book server .

In step order book server communicates the conversion instruction in real time to a C Notes issuer server At step the issue server effects conversion of the FX component of the C Notes convertible debt obligation. For example the issuer server can cause the issuer acting as counterparty to the trader s FX prime broker to effect the conversion of the C Notes debt obligation by executing an FX spot contract or FX forward contract . For example such conversion can be initiated by the issuer server sending an electronic order message to an in house trading desk Electronic Communication Network ECN or an order book matching server to credit the trader s FX prime broker with the corresponding spot FX contract. In response the issuer or the FX prime broker of the C Notes issuer enters into a short position in the spot FX contract while the trader or the trader s FX prime broker enters into a long position with the corresponding spot FX contract. Such transactions can be executed through electronic messaging with the order book server .

At step confirmation of conversion of the FX component of the C Notes debt obligation is issued to the order book server. For example in one embodiment the issuer server and the FX prime broker send confirmation messages regarding the FX conversion to the order book server . The order book server in turn can record details of this transaction to the back office server and send a confirmation message to the trader. Details of such transactions are recorded in the back office server for the purpose of recordkeeping and order confirmation and reconciliation. In another embodiment where a centralized clearing body is involved in the transaction the order book server sends the confirmation message to the centralized clearing body which in turn routes confirmation of the conversion to the trader and back to the issuer server. Alternatively the centralized clearing body can send a confirmation message back to the order book server which in turn reports all confirmations back to the trader.

In step 100 EUR plus or minus accrued interest is wired or portion thereof if the C Notes was originally bought on margin from trader s trading account via instruction communicated to trading terminal and communicated via order book server to FX prime broker to secure 100 EUR USD spot contract for trader .

At step the issuer server effects conversion of the cash component of the C Notes debt obligation. For example 100 EUR or an equivalent in USD or portion thereof if originally purchased and booked at the issuer server and in back office server on margin according to a custom agreement between the trader and the issuer is transferred to the trader s account at a clearing broker from the C Notes issuer. If the trader s account is at an introducing broker the clearing broker can in turn communicate the change in status of the trader s account to the introducing broker.

At step confirmation of conversion of the cash component of the C Notes debt obligation is issued to the order book server. For example in one embodiment the issuer server confirms that the cash was sent to the clearing broker and the clearing broker sends confirmation of receipt of the cash to the order book server . The order book server in turn can record details of this transaction to the back office server and send a confirmation message to the trader. In another embodiment where a centralized clearing body is involved in the transaction the order book server sends the confirmation message to the centralized clearing body which in turn routes confirmation of the cash conversion to the trader and the issuer server. Alternatively the centralized clearing body can send a confirmation message back to the order book server which in turn reports all confirmation back to the trader.

Any of the aforementioned embodiments can include the following feature. The C Notes debt obligation can be transacted in a short or long net position by posting sufficient capital or good faith for support of sufficient extension of credit in traders accounts at C Notes issuer server or with centralized clearing body. These long or short transactions can be accompanied by an agreement on the part of the C Notes Issuer other trader or a centralized clearing body connected to the electronic network to re purchase from the trader or re sell such instrument to the trader at set price and at set date in the future effectively creating a repo and reverse repurchase market. Each leg of such transaction can be transacted with a centralized clearing body acting as counterparty to each leg of the transactions. In other words an electronic marketplace is provided enabling centralized clearing of multi currency debt obligation purchase and repurchase agreements in coordination with primary and secondary market transactions.

In summary embodiments of the present invention advantageously allow a trader to maintain a currency position in C Notes without having to engage in rollover transactions while providing the trader with the flexibility to nearly instantaneously convert the C Notes into FX spot or forward transactions.

The invention has been described in terms of particular embodiments. The alternatives described herein are examples for illustration only and not to limit the alternatives in any way. The steps of the invention can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. It will be obvious to persons skilled in the art to make various changes and modifications to the invention described herein. To the extent that these variations depart from the scope and spirit of the appended claims they are intended to be encompassed therein.

