---

title: Method and system for vendor-neutral subcontractor enablement
abstract: A method implemented in a computer infrastructure having computer executable code, includes receiving information in support of a bid and determining if value-add eligibility criteria is met. Additionally, the method includes calculating a bid price based on the information if the value-add eligibility criteria is met, updating a record indicating the bid price and tracking additions and changes to the record.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08756145&OS=08756145&RS=08756145
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08756145
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080204
---
The present invention generally relates to a method and system for managing and enabling subcontractors and or vendors who are competing for a same client sales opportunity and more specifically to a method and system for managing and enabling a vendor neutral bid process for the same client sales opportunity.

An organization for example a company e.g. a television manufacturer may manufacture a product for sale to a final customer. However rather than making a direct sale to the final customer the organization may use vendors e.g. retail stores to make the sale to the customer. That is the organization may sell the product to the vendor and the vendor in turn may sell the product to the final customer. Additionally vendors may discover a sales opportunity e.g. a client contacts the vendor requesting e.g. a product and submit a request or bid to purchase the product from the organization so that the vendor may sell the product to the client. Often there may be a plurality of vendors competing for the same sales opportunity. However the organization may choose only some of the vendors among the plurality of vendors for the sales opportunity.

In deciding which vendors to use for the sales opportunity e.g. to distribute a product to the final customers an organization may use a bid process. A bid process may be open for a period of time e.g. three months in which vendors competing for the same sales opportunity may submit information in support of their bid. For example a vendor may submit data indicating that they are capable of meeting a client s e.g. a final customer s requirements or needs. Additionally a vendor may submit data reflective of successful past sales or business development actions taken with a particular client.

Furthermore when selling to a vendor it is customary for the organization to give the vendor a discount e.g. a wholesale price versus a retail price . The vendor may then sell the product to the final customer at a higher price e.g. a retail price . Additionally the organization may segment their pricing and have more than one discount price for selling the product to the vendor. More specifically the organization may have different tiers of pricing. For example the organization may have four tiers of pricing for their vendors wherein tier one is the list price or retail price tier two is an entitled price e.g. a wholesale price tier three is a better price than tier two and tier four is the lowest possible price. Moreover tier two may be the standard pricing given to vendors. However vendors may request a better special price e.g. tier three or tier four pricing from the organization. For example if a particular vendor has had great success in selling the product and has met sales goals the organization may offer that particular vendor a better price. This is advantageous for the vendor as they may pass the discount on to the final customer and possibly make a greater number of sales or they may charge the same amount as other vendors who purchased from the organization at a higher pricing tier and realize greater profits.

Thus during a bid process an organization may decide which vendors will be used for the sales opportunity. Moreover the organization may decide to offer different vendors different pricing tiers. These determined pricing tiers offered to different vendors may be available to those vendors for a limited period of time e.g. three months within which a vendor must close the deal with the client and after which a vendor would need to complete the bid process again.

However organizations generally referred to as Company XYZ in this disclosure often have a difficult time when selecting between competing vendors such as internal service providers Global System Integrators GSI Local System Integrators SI Industry Solution Vendors ISV and other Business Partners BP to provide their products and services to the end customers. As an example Bank 1 may be a Company XYZ technology customer and have relationships with Vendor A and Vendor B. When Bank 1 requires new technology they may likely contact both Vendor A and Vendor B who are both resellers of Company XYZ technology products and services. In such cases where multiple vendors are interested in pursuing the technology sale to a client e.g. Bank 1 Company XYZ must determine each vendor s eligibility and then evaluate each vendor s influence and contribution to a successful sale and deployment to determine if any vendor will be offered a special discount pricing.

It is important for organizations e.g. Company XYZ to maintain excellent relationships with all of their vendors e.g. Vendor A and Vendor B in order to maintain and grow business. In order to maintain excellent relationships with all of their vendors each vendor must view the organization as a neutral evaluator of a standard process and not an influencer of the competitive outcome. However in deciding the terms of sale for each of the vendors an organization may give one of the vendors more favorable terms or less favorable terms as compared to another vendor based on the organization s assessment of which vendor has best influenced and prepared for the sale and deployment to the client. For example in some situations an organization e.g. Company XYZ may provide different pricing to such competing vendors e.g. Vendor A and Vendor B based on which vendor s Company XYZ has determined to have best influenced and prepared for the sale and deployment.

However without a standardized well understood and impartial mechanism for recording and evaluating vendor eligibility influence and preparedness with respect to any individual sales opportunity vendor relationships with the organization may be harmed where one or more vendors may not feel that an impartial decision has been made. For example using conventional manual practices two different representatives of Company XYZ may look at the same request for a particular vendor but come to different conclusions e.g. different pricing tiers.

Moreover where a lack of defined evaluation criteria and data exists it is often not possible for the organization to determine which vendor should receive favorable pricing or sales assistance. As such a no win situation may arise where all competing vendors receive the same treatment from Company XYZ as it is not clear that any single vendor has better prepared to perform than any other.

Accordingly there exists a need in the art to overcome the deficiencies and limitations described hereinabove.

In a first aspect of the invention a method implemented in a computer infrastructure having computer executable code comprises receiving information in support of a bid and determining if value add eligibility criteria is met. Additionally if the value add eligibility criteria is met the method further comprises calculating a bid price based on the information and updating a record indicating the bid price. Furthermore the method comprises tracking additions and changes to the record.

In another aspect of the invention a system comprises a bid certification tool vendor interface configured to provide a uniform interface to add or modify information in a bid certification tool record in support of a bid a form loader tool configured to translate the information when necessary prior to adding the information to the bid certification tool record and a value add eligibility determination tool configured to determine whether value add eligibility criteria is met based on the information. Additionally the system comprises a bid pricer tool providing an interface with a pricing tool configured to determine a standard price based on the information and a bid value calculation tool configured to determine a bid value calculation score based on the information and update the bid certification tool record to indicate a special pricing.

In another aspect of the invention a computer program product comprises a computer usable medium having readable program code embodied in the medium. The computer program product includes at least one component to receive information in support of a bid in a bid certification tool record and determine if value add eligibility criteria is met. Additionally the at least one component is configured to calculate a bid price based on the information if the value add eligibility criteria is met and update the bid certification tool record indicating the bid price. Moreover the at least one component is configured to track additions and modifications to the bid certification tool record.

The invention is directed to a method and system for managing and enabling subcontractors and or vendors who are competing for the same client sales opportunity and more specifically to a method and system for managing and enabling a vendor neutral bid process for the same client sales opportunity.

Using current manual techniques and methods sales professionals of an organization e.g. a company often access tools such as the IBM Bid Certification Tool BCT to make vendor decisions within a very short time frame in order to meet the delivery needs of a customer or client. IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation in the United States other countries or both. Where multiple vendors claim the right to favored treatment through the BCT process and documentation is limited or nonexistent this often results in much manual effort on the part of the sales team professionals of the organization or company in e.g. rehashing phone conversations reviewing email messages and otherwise trying to determine which vendors were involved in eligible activities on behalf of the client and deserve favorable status. That is such information is manually collected manually tracked and manually recorded as part of the bid certification process.

This invention provides a software architecture interface and system and method for evaluation of vendors competing for the same client sales opportunity. Implementing the invention provides a software architecture unique logic elements and multiple embodiments to automate enhance and improve upon existing bid certification process systems and methods. In embodiments the invention may be deployed as an enhanced version of existing tools such as for example IBM BCT or may be a new software product. By implementing the invention the use of time resources accuracy and personal neutrality involved in the bid process are all greatly improved providing a more balanced bid environment which results in better relationships between vendors and the organization e.g. the company and also amongst the vendors themselves.

The computing device includes a processor a memory A an input output I O interface and a bus . The memory A can include local memory employed during actual execution of program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Further the computing device or BCT server is in communication with an external I O device resource . The external I O device resource may be keyboards displays pointing devices etc. The I O device can interact with the computing device or any device that enables the computing device to communicate with one or more other computing devices using any type of communications link. Additionally in embodiments the computing device includes a storage system B. Storage system B may contain a database for use by the computer infrastructure as discussed further below.

The processor executes computer program code e.g. program control which is stored in the memory A and or the storage system B. While executing computer program code the processor can read and or write data to from the memory A the storage system B and or the I O interface . The bus provides a communications link between each of the components in the computing device or BCT server .

The computing device or BCT server can comprise any general purpose computing article of manufacture capable of executing computer program code installed thereon e.g. a personal computer server handheld device etc. . However it is understood that the computing device is only representative of various possible equivalent computing devices that may perform the processes described herein. To this extent in embodiments the functionality provided by computing device or BCT server can be implemented by a computing article of manufacture that includes any combination of general and or specific purpose hardware and or computer program code. In each embodiment the program code and hardware can be created using standard programming and engineering techniques respectively.

Similarly the computer infrastructure is only illustrative of various types of computer infrastructures for implementing the invention. For example in embodiments the computer infrastructure comprises two or more computing devices e.g. a server cluster that communicate over any type of communications link such as a network a shared memory or the like to perform the processes described herein. Further while performing the processes described herein one or more computing devices in the computer infrastructure can communicate with one or more other computing devices external to computer infrastructure using any type of communications link. The communications link can comprise any combination of wired and or wireless links any combination of one or more types of networks e.g. the Internet a wide area network a local area network a virtual private network etc. and or utilize any combination of transmission techniques and protocols.

In embodiments the invention provides a business method that performs the steps of the invention on a subscription advertising and or fee basis. That is a service provider such as a Solution Integrator could offer to perform the processes described herein. In this case the service provider can create maintain deploy support etc. a computer infrastructure that performs the process steps of the invention for one or more customers. In return the service provider can receive payment from the customer s under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service provider can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

Moreover according to an aspect of the invention the components e.g. the form loader tool the bid pricer tool the value add eligibility determination tool the bid value calculation BVC tool the history tracking tool and the BCT vendor interface may be created in a software tool set that is compliant with service oriented architecture SOA guidelines for software development. SOA is an architectural style where existing or new functionalities are grouped into atomic services. These services communicate with each other by passing data from one service to another or by coordinating an activity between one or more services. More specifically SOA is an architecture that relies on service orientation as its fundamental design principle. In an SOA environment independent services can be accessed without knowledge of their underlying platform implementation. Put another way SOA is the practice of segregating the core business functions into independent services that do not change frequently. SOA architecture utilizes modular functional logic blocks and loosely coupled interfaces. By implementing the invention with an SOA compliant design the invention may be easily deployed in independent software modules and may be readily enhanced and maintained.

The BCT vendor interface provides an interface for vendors to connect to the computing device or BCT server and insert and update data and or documents in support of e.g. a Company XYZ client sale opportunity. In embodiments the BCT vendor interface may be a remote software module designed for and able to connect to and directly communicate with the computing device or BCT server using well known protocols. In an alternate embodiment the BCT vendor interface may be a web based interface utilizing well known data transfer languages and protocol such as for example hypertext transfer protocol HTTP file transfer protocol FTP secure shell SSH and extensible markup language XML . In yet another embodiment a vendor may submit data in various document formats without the BCT vendor interface e.g. either on paper or electronically and e.g. fed or scanned into the BCT server using known methods.

Using the BCT vendor interface allows a vendor to access the BCT server to e.g. upload and or update documents in support of themselves in the bid process. The BCT vendor interface provides a uniform system for vendors to submit evidentiary support for their bid. The BCT vendor interface also allows for a system in which each vendor is responsible for documenting their own record in the BCT server in support of their bid. By providing a system in which the vendors are responsible for managing their bid support documents this work may be shifted from the organization e.g. the company to the vendors. This may reduce or eliminate the workload of the organization and consequently reduce costs to the organization.

In order for the organization to keep track of which submitted information e.g. documents belong to which vendors in embodiments the organization may assign each vendor a unique opportunity number. The opportunity number is a uniform tracking mechanism for the bid process. More specifically when a vendor initially contacts an organization e.g. a company requesting to resell to a client e.g. purchase from the company for sale to the client the company may assign the vendor an opportunity number. Thus when the vendor submits any bid information to the BCT server e.g. via the BCT vendor interface the vendor identifies that bid information with the opportunity number to associate the bid information with the vendor. Moreover the database may utilize the opportunity number when storing the submitted bid information. Also in embodiments when the vendor initially contacts an organization e.g. a company requesting to resell to a client the vendor may complete and submit a resell request form.

The form loader tool is responsible for any document and data translation that may be required to load data from the BCT vendor interface to the BCT server . In an embodiment the BCT vendor interface may connect directly to the BCT server and no form loading service e.g. translation by the form loader tool would be necessary. However in an alternate embodiment in which for example the BCT vendor interface is a web based interface the form loader tool translates inbound web page content to the BCT server . In yet another embodiment paper or electronic documents may be e.g. scanned or read translated and loaded as server records in the BCT server by the form loader tool . Many techniques for scanning loading and translating data are known in existing art.

The value add eligibility determination tool determines whether each of the vendors meets any value add eligibility criteria of the client. It is generally desirable for companies such as XYZ to resell through vendors who add value to the target client e.g. the final customer . As such the first step in the vendor evaluation process is to ensure that competing vendors all meet value add eligibility criteria. Depending on embodiments a vendor who is not able to meet all or a portion of the client s value add eligibility criteria may be eliminated from consideration in the bid process.

The value add eligibility criteria may be determined by the client prior to the bid process. Moreover the value add eligibility criteria may be altered at any time by for example the client the organization or a service provider. However in embodiments the value add eligibility criteria may remain static through a bid process. Such value add eligibility criteria may vary greatly according to industry type of sale complexity of sale and other such information. In general however value add eligibility criteria may include services and support required by or beneficial to a given client. In embodiments value add eligibility criteria may include client agreements with the company e.g. setting forth that only certain vendors may do business with the client particular skills e.g. installation skills or software skills and certifications e.g. a certified install specialist amongst other criteria.

In embodiments the value add eligibility determination tool may access a relational database RDB e.g. database and read vendor value add data relative to the target client in order to determine whether the vendors meet the value add eligibility criteria. More specifically during the bid process a vendor may utilize the BCT vendor interface to review the value add eligibility criteria of a particular client and indicate whether the vendor is able to meet each of the value add eligibility criteria. The vendor s indications of their ability to meet the value add eligibility criteria may be stored in the database . With this information in the database the BCT server may compile a value add table which indicates each of the client s value add eligibility criteria and an indication of whether each of the vendors is able to meet each of the client s value add eligibility criteria.

As shown in the value add table includes columns for Value Add Criteria Vendor A and Vendor B . It should be understood that the value add table would include a vendor column for each vendor under consideration in the bid process. Additionally the value add table includes rows for each of the value add criteria. More specifically the Value Add Criteria column contains the criteria of a particular client e.g. Bank 1 . Vendor A column and Vendor B column are used to indicate whether Vendor A and Vendor B meet each of the client s criteria. Thus as shown in with this exemplary value add table Vendor A is able to meet all of the client s criteria and Vendor B is not able to meet two of the client s criteria.

Those skilled in the art will realize that many different criteria can be considered as adding value to a client only a small portion of which are listed in as examples. Many specific criteria or requirements will vary based on the target client industry and type of sale amongst other parameters. As an example a technology company may only out source implementation of specific products and services to vendors certified by a governing authority in that specific field. For instance with one example only vendors certified to deploy the IBM DB2 Universal Database would be eligible for a sales opportunity that included this requirement. DB2 Universal Database is a trademark of International Business Machines Corporation in the United States other countries or both. 

In one embodiment a vendor would have to meet all of the value add eligibility criteria of a client to be eligible for the competitive sales opportunity. That is if a vendor is not able to meet any of the client s value add eligibility criteria then the vendor will be eliminated from consideration in the bid process. In another embodiment the vendor would have to meet only key value add eligibility criteria. That is for example the client or the organization may segment the value add eligibility criteria into e.g. key value add eligibility criteria and secondary value add eligibility criteria and a vendor must only meet the key value add eligibility criteria to remain in the bid process. In yet another embodiment the vendor would need to meet a predefined percentage e.g. seventy five percent of the value add eligibility criteria in order to remain eligible.

In an additional embodiment the key field values e.g. data in columns and may be used by the BVC tool to determine a bid value score as described further below. Moreover the key field values may automatically favor one vendor over another vendor. For example if one vendor already has a relationship with the client and another vendor does not the first vendor may receive additional credit towards their bid value score as described below .

The bid pricer tool provides an electronic interface or application programming interface API between an organization s existing pricing tool and the BCT server . Using the bid pricer tool the prices determined by the pricing tool may be input into the BCT server and or the database for use by the BVC tool as described further below.

An organization may use the organization s existing pricing tool to determine which pricing each of the vendors may be offered. For example as explained above the organization may have four tiers of pricing for their vendors wherein tier one is the list price or retail price tier two is an entitled price e.g. a wholesale price tier three is a better price than tier two and tier four is the lowest possible price. Moreover tier two may be the standard pricing given to vendors.

Additionally database entries may exist for any standard discounting specific to the vendor or the type of sale. In embodiments the bid price tool would apply such discounts to the standard pricing. For example a vendor may have a partnership contract that provides for a five percent discount. The bid process tool applies the discount to the pricing determined by the pricing tool .

The bid value calculation BVC tool determines whether any of the vendors may receive a special pricing e.g. a pricing less than the pricing determined by the pricing tool in conjunction with the bid pricer tool . In order to make this determination of special pricing the BVC tool may evaluate and quantify the relative merits of each of the vendors competing for the same business opportunity.

More specifically the BVC tool determines the relative value of a given vendor s bid based on predefined points assigned to completed sales differentiators activities and or documents. Additionally where multiple vendors are competing for the same sales opportunity the BVC tool may calculate values based on comparative data between vendors such as for example which vendor was engaged earliest in the sales process. In such a points based system in embodiments a higher value may be assigned to sales differentiators documents and activities that are most important to the organization e.g. Company XYZ and items of lesser importance may be worth fewer points. In embodiments when the deadline for a bid submission has arrived the vendor with the most points would be declared winner of the BVC process. The winner of the BVC process may be a offered special pricing for example less than the standard pricing determined by the pricing tool in conjunction with the bid pricer tool e.g. a lower pricing tier.

In embodiments if a vendor would like to request a special pricing the vendor may submit a special pricing request form. Additionally as explained above vendors may submit and or update information in the BCT server via the BCT vendor interface . Thus a vendor may submit BVC comparative data e.g. completed sales differentiators activities and or documents to the BCT server for evaluation by the BVC tool . Moreover vendors may submit the BVC comparative data at any time during the bid process e.g. directly after an activity occurs or in real time. As explained above the vendors may identify their submitted data with their unique opportunity number.

As shown in the sales differentiators activities or documents may include for example a record opened date a configuration review or system assurance review SAR completed an architecture overview document an architecture detail document an architecture diagram and a client letter amongst other sales differentiators activities or documents. More specifically as shown in the exemplary point value table of a vendor receives one point per month of difference in record opened date as compared to the other vendors involved in the bid process. A vendor may be given more points for having an earlier opened date as having an earlier opened record date indicates to the organization e.g. Company XYZ that the vendor has been invested in the bid process for a longer period of time and involved with the customer for this particular sales opportunity for a longer period of time. Accordingly the vendor likely has a more mature bid e.g. more fully developed architecture. In an alternative embodiment a vendor with the earliest opened record date may receive zero points and every other vendor may receive a point deduction per month for each month past the earliest opened record date their respective opened record date occurred.

Additionally as shown in for example a vendor may receive five points for a completed configuration review or system assurance review SAR . A company may have for each type of equipment a SAR that sets forth what a vendor should have considered in putting together a particular architecture for a client. If the vendor has completed e.g. the SAR then that vendor is more prepared than a vendor who has not completed a SAR. Thus a vendor will receive a higher BVC score if the SAR has been completed.

The BVC comparative data in embodiments may be stored in a relational database e.g. database for easy association access and comparison of data. As previously stated an organization s BVC comparative criteria e.g. completed sales differentiators documents and activities may vary greatly and only a subset of possible considerations have been listed. Additionally values assigned to particular criteria may also vary greatly. As an example a company that derives substantial income from repeat business may value a client relationship much more than another company that primarily conducts one time sales or services. Thus the point values may reflect the company s relative weighting of these different BVC comparative criteria. Additionally such criteria assigned values may be manually or automatically modified based on time of year time of day current sales cycle special sales programs and so forth. For example the value assigned to sales volume criteria may be low in the first quarter of a year. Yet by the last quarter of the year vendors may have been expected to meet sales projections and thus a higher point value may be allotted to those vendors who have done so.

As shown in with this example Vendor A provided all documentation and began working on the sales opportunity two months earlier than Vendor B resulting in a BVC score of twenty four. Vendor B received no points for the earliest record opened data and also failed to include a client recommendation letter resulting in a BVC score of twenty. Thus with this example Vendor A would win the BVC process and as a result may receive special pricing or other special assistance from Company XYZ.

However in embodiments an organization may not offer the special pricing to a winner of the BVC process or may not automatically offer any special pricing to a winner of the BVC process. For example a company may decide to not offer a special pricing to the winner of the BVC process and or may decide to offer a non winner of the BVC process a special pricing. Additionally for example if the BVC score is within a specified number of points between two or more vendors an audit may be performed prior to declaring a winner of the BVC process. In embodiments the point differential prompting an audit may be simply a specific number of points may be a ratio may be triggered by specific data fields and documents or other such criteria. In a further embodiment the point winner of the BVC process would be conclusive and random audits may occur after the fact.

The history tracking tool provides the organization e.g. Company XYZ with a timeline record of which vendors accessed and added and or updated information in the BVC server . For example all entries changes and or updates to stored documents or field data may be recorded e.g. in the database with a time stamp and saved as a revision of the earlier document. For example if a vendor changes or replaces an architecture overview document three times after initially loading it three revisions would be saved in a history in e.g. the database and the active document would be revision four. Utilizing the history tracking tool allows the organization to maintain a timeline of each vendor s activities. Moreover the organization e.g. Company XYZ may use the information obtained utilizing the history tracking tool e.g. revision dates number of revisions etc. to review trends among vendors and also to settle any vendor activity disputes. In other embodiments other history tracking systems e.g. Wiki based services may also be used.

The steps of the flow diagram described herein may be implemented in the environment of . The flow diagram may equally represent a high level block diagram of the invention. The steps of the flow diagram may be implemented and executed from either a server in a client server relationship or they may run on a user workstation with operative information conveyed to the user workstation. Additionally the invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In an embodiment the software elements include firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. The software and or computer program product can be implemented in the environment of . For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disc read write CD R W and DVD.

At step a vendor completes and submits a resell request form via the BCT vendor interface. At step the value add eligibility determination tool determines whether the vendor meets the client s value add eligibility criteria. If at step the value add eligibility determination tool determines that the vendor does not meet the client s value add eligibility criteria the process continues at step where the process ends for the vendor and the vendor is eliminated from consideration. If at step the value add eligibility determination tool determines the vendor does meet the client s value add eligibility criteria then at step a determination is made as to whether the vendor has requested special pricing e.g. lower pricing than the standard wholesale pricing . If at step the vendor has requested special pricing at step the vendor completes and submits a special pricing request form. If at step the vendor has not requested special pricing then the process continues at step .

At step the BCT server generates a BCT record from the completed and submitted request forms. At step the BCT server provides an opportunity number to the vendor. At step the BCT server adds the requested configuration or the product or service the vendor would like to sell to the BCT record in the database. At step the vendor adds and or modifies bid documents and or modifies the configuration via the BCT vendor interface .

At step the BCT server determines if the vendor is eligible for the special pricing. If at step the BCT server determines that the vendor is not eligible for the special pricing the process continues at step . If at step the BCT server determines that the vendor is eligible for the special pricing at step the BCT server determines whether multiple vendors are competing for the same sales opportunity. If at step the BCT server determines that multiple vendors are not competing for the same sales opportunity the process continues at step . If at step the BCT server determines that multiple vendors are competing for the same sales opportunity at step the BVC tool executes the BVC process for the competing vendors.

At step a determination is made as to whether the BVC tool identified a winner of the BVC process. If at step the BVC tool did not identify a winner of the BVC process then the process continues at step . If at step the BVC tool did identify a winner of the BVC process then at step the winner of the BVC process is offered special pricing and an indication of the special pricing is added to the BCT record of the winner. Additionally at step the vendor s who did not win the BVC process are offered standard pricing and an indication of the standard pricing is added to the BCT record of the vendor s who did not win the BVC process. At step a vendor is offered standard pricing and an indication of the standard pricing is added to the BCT record of the vendor. At step the process ends.

It should be understood that while the steps have been described as occurring in a particular order the invention contemplates that the steps may be performed in other orders. For example step may occur before step . Furthermore the invention contemplates that in embodiments steps may be implied or omitted while still remaining within the scope of this invention.

While the invention has been described in terms of embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modifications and in the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

