---

title: Framework for managing consumption of energy
abstract: This invention discloses an intelligent framework for the overall management of energy allocated to components of a system. When conservation is desired or a shortage occurs, it is desirable to modulate energy to components, or to notify components and allow them to modulate themselves. It also discusses the establishment of a standard communications API between entities and components within the system. Among other things, this framework: manages device and entity enrollment into the system; provides an interface to heterogeneous devices; establishes standard communication methods between entities and components; dictates throttling to entities and components when conservation is required; and monitors energy throttling and compliance with modulate requests.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07983798&OS=07983798&RS=07983798
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07983798
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080911
---
This invention discloses a framework for managing the consumption of energy. This framework typically yields energy conservation as a result of enabling fine grained policies for energy usage. It also provides a comprehensive management system for controlling energy usage within an enterprise during a shortage or for conservation purposes.

As energy prices continue to rise companies and individuals are seeking ways to reduce consumption and manage shortage situations. Currently methods for managing energy shortage situations are limited as managing energy usage of components in an infrastructure is a nascent industry. A few early solutions include WebSphere XD which allows application servers to be tuned down to lower energy consumption modes WebSphere is a trademark of IBM Corp. in the United States and or other countries and devices may be connected to home appliances e.g. air conditioner that allow the energy company to turn off energy to the appliance when a shortage occurs. This only enables an on off situation for selected devices.

Unfortunately options for managing individual components of a system are limited as most products do not provide intelligent options. Centralized management of heterogeneous devices during an energy shortage does not exist.

This invention discloses an intelligent framework for the overall management of energy allocated to components of a system. When conservation is desired or a shortage occurs it is desirable to differentiate and modulate energy to components or to alert notify components and allow them to modulate themselves. It also discusses the establishment of a standard communications API between entities and components within the framework. Among other things this framework manages device and entity enrollment into the system provides an interface to heterogeneous devices establishes of standard communication methods between entities and components dictates throttling to entities and components when conservation is required and monitors energy throttling and compliance with modulate requests.

A first aspect of the invention provides a method for managing energy consumption comprising identifying a set of objects whose energy consumption will be managed accessing a set of meta data for the set of objects the set of meta data corresponding to communication and energy conservation properties initiating an energy conservation request communicating instructions pertaining to the energy conservation request to at least one of the set of objects determining whether an acknowledgement is received from the at least one of the set of objects and monitoring the at least one of the set of objects to ensure compliance with the instructions.

A second aspect of the invention provides a system for managing energy consumption comprising a module for identifying a set of objects whose energy consumption will be managed a module for accessing a set of meta data for the set of objects the set of meta data corresponding to communication and energy conservation properties a module for initiating an energy conservation request a module for communicating instructions pertaining to the energy conservation request to at least one of the set of objects a module for determining whether an acknowledgement is received from the at least one of the set of objects and a module for monitoring the at least one of the set of objects to ensure compliance with the instructions.

A third aspect of the invention provides a computer readable medium containing a program product for managing energy consumption the computer readable medium comprising a set of program instructions for causing a computer system to identify a set of objects whose energy consumption will be managed access a set of meta data for the set of objects the set of meta data corresponding to communication and energy conservation properties initiate an energy conservation request communicate instructions pertaining to the energy conservation request to at least one of the set of objects determine whether an acknowledgement is received from the at least one of the set of objects and monitor the at least one of the set of objects to ensure compliance with the instructions.

A fourth aspect of the invention provides a method for deploying a system for managing energy consumption comprising deploying a computer infrastructure being operable to identify a set of objects whose energy consumption will be managed access a set of meta data for the set of objects the set of meta data corresponding to communication and energy conservation properties initiate an energy conservation request communicate instructions pertaining to the energy conservation request to at least one of the set of objects determine whether an acknowledgement is received from the at least one of the set of objects and monitor the at least one of the set of objects to ensure compliance with the instructions.

A fifth aspect of the invention provides at least one data processing system managing energy consumption comprising at least one memory medium having instructions at least one bus coupled to the memory medium and at least one processor coupled to the least one bus that when executing the instructions causes the at least one data processing system to identify a set of objects whose energy consumption will be managed access a set of meta data for the set of objects the set of meta data corresponding to communication and energy conservation properties initiate an energy conservation request communicate instructions pertaining to the energy conservation request to at least one of the set of objects determine whether an acknowledgement is received from the at least one of the set of objects and monitor the at least one of the set of objects to ensure compliance with the instructions.

A sixth aspect of the invention provides a computer implemented set of business goals and methods for managing energy consumption comprising identifying a set of objects whose energy consumption will be managed accessing a set of meta data for the set of objects the set of meta data corresponding to communication and energy conservation properties initiating an energy conservation request communicating instructions pertaining to the energy conservation request to at least one of the set of objects determining whether an acknowledgement is received from the at least one of the set of objects and monitoring the at least one of the set of objects to ensure compliance with the instructions.

The drawings are not necessarily to scale. The drawings are merely schematic representations not intended to portray specific parameters of the invention. The drawings are intended to depict only typical embodiments of the invention and therefore should not be considered as limiting the scope of the invention. In the drawings like numbering represents like elements.

As indicated above this invention discloses an intelligent framework for the overall management of energy allocated to components of a system. When conservation is desired or a shortage occurs it is desirable to modulate energy to components or to notify components and allow them to modulate themselves. It also discusses the establishment of a standard communications API between entities and components within the system. Among other things this framework manages device and entity enrollment into the system provides an interface to heterogeneous devices establishes standard communication methods between entities and components dictates throttling to entities and components when conservation is required and monitors energy throttling and compliance with modulate requests.

Referring now to a framework hierarchy is shown. is to demonstrate among other things that the present invention could be implemented in conjunction with any hierarchy of devices regardless of complexity. In the example shown energy control management systems energy control manager hereinafter PCM are utilized on multiple levels. Municipality PCM works in conjunction with business park PCM hospital PCM and community infrastructure PCM . Further business park PCM interacts with business A PCM and business B PCM each of which controls energy consumption with their own devices and . Similarly hospital PCM controls energy consumption by devices . Community infrastructure PCM is shown interacting with police department PCM school PCM and fire department PCM which among themselves manage devices and . As can be seen a PCM under the present invention can not only interact with devices but also with other PCMs.

Referring now to the functions of a PCM will be described. As used in entities A B represent any business object that has one or more component device. Sample entities may include a hospital business or municipality. As such devices A N are each a piece of the overall system who s energy may be modulated. This may be a particular software application piece of IT hardware server storage networking switch etc. . . . other hardware life support equipment refrigerator etc. .

Under the present invention each device entity etc. is enrolled into the system. This may occur manually through auto discovery by PCM or by device A N self enrollment to PCM . Once enrolled PCM maintains a database of devices and their meta data. Sample device meta data are as follows 

Regardless this functionality may be implemented with a single energy management server groups of servers or a hierarchy of servers. A hierarchy is the preferred embodiment for an enterprise system as that allows for delegation to sub entities.

As further depicted PCM has a set of application programming interfaces APIs A N which allow communication to occur between PCM and devices A N and or entities A N. Although not shown in an API would also allow PCM to interface with another PCM. Heterogeneous devices from different vendors may have very different interfaces. The technology described herein will interface to different devices or to any known or future energy management standard. For example the interface to communicate with IBM WebSphere XD software WebSphere is a trademark of IBM Corp in the United States and or other countries may differ greatly from the interface for a medical device to manage energy to an anesthesia machine which would differ from the interface to a refrigerator.

Under the present invention when energy conservation is needed e.g. energy shortages are occurring energy pricing is spiking etc. devices A N may be modulated in any of following ways On Off Stepwise High Med Low settings and Continuous. The awareness of the device throttling capabilities will be stored in either the device software or a PCM server. Commands sent to the device to instruct it to modulate will take into account these capabilities.

It is recognized that many devices may have proprietary interfaces for signaling to modulate energy. Although this framework provides for an API to interface to nonstandard devices it is preferred that devices standardize their energy management interfaces in the future. This disclosure allows for the creation of standard methods and interfaces for communication to components of an intelligent energy management system. Heterogeneous hardware and software components may seamlessly plug into the framework for managing energy usage.

When conservation is required PCM notifies devices A N. If time allows this may allow them time to move to a quiescent state before throttling begins. Devices with the intelligence to lower their own usage may use this notification to modulate themselves. Other devices may require the management system to signal a separate energy management device to lower the energy to them. Along these lines the energy reduction trigger may be automated by PCM or initiated manually through PCM . The system may manage energy based on predictable cycles e.g. lower energy overnight or based on real time request. Once energy reduction is needed PCM will communicate instructions to one or more devices A N dictating just how energy should be consumed. Thereafter PCM will monitor such devices A N to ensure compliance with the instructions. For optimal performance the ability to communicate in real time with entities A N and devices A N enables the system to monitor their energy consumption and compliance with throttling requests. In performing its functions PCM is typically controlled by one or more policies that state among other things when how and for how long energy consumption should occur. To make control and programming of PCM easier the present invention can provide a graphical user interface GUI similar to that shown in . Such a GUI can provide all functionality discussed herein including compiling and changing hierarchies of devices and or entities managing policies managing energy consumption triggers issuing instructions to devices monitoring devices etc.

Referring now to a computerized implementation of the present invention is shown. As depicted implementation includes computer system PCM deployed within a computer infrastructure . This is intended to demonstrate among other things that the present invention could be implemented within a network environment e.g. the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a virtual private network VPN etc. or on a stand alone computer system. In the case of the former communication throughout the network can occur via any combination of various types of communications links. For example the communication links can comprise addressable connections that may utilize any combination of wired and or wireless transmission methods. Where communications occur via the Internet connectivity could be provided by conventional TCP IP sockets based protocol and an Internet service provider could be used to establish connectivity to the Internet. Still yet computer infrastructure is intended to demonstrate that some or all of the components of implementation could be deployed managed serviced etc. by a service provider who offers to implement deploy and or perform the functions of the present invention for others.

Computer system is intended to represent any type of computer system that may be implemented in deploying realizing the teachings recited herein. In this particular example computer system represents an illustrative system that could represent a PCM. It should be understood that any other computers implemented under the present invention will have similar components but may perform different functions have different software. As shown computer system includes a processing unit a memory a bus and device interfaces . Further computer system is shown communicating with one or more external devices that communicate with bus via device interfaces. In general processing unit executes computer program code such PCM program which is stored in memory and or storage system . While executing computer program code processing unit can read and or write data to from memory storage system and or device interfaces . Bus provides a communication link between each of the components in computer system . Although not shown computer system could also include I O interfaces that communicate with one or more external devices such as a kiosk a checkout station a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a user to interact with computer system and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Although not shown computer system could contain multiple processing units.

Computer infrastructure is only illustrative of various types of computer infrastructures for implementing the invention. For example in one embodiment computer infrastructure comprises two or more computing devices e.g. a server cluster that communicate over a network to perform the various processes of the invention. Moreover computer system is only representative of various possible computer systems that can include numerous combinations of hardware. To this extent in other embodiments computer system can comprise any specific purpose computing article of manufacture comprising hardware and or computer program code for performing specific functions any computing article of manufacture that comprises a combination of specific purpose and general purpose hardware software or the like. In each case the program code and hardware can be created using standard programming and engineering techniques respectively. Moreover processing unit may comprise a single processing unit or be distributed across one or more processing units in one or more locations e.g. on a client and server. Similarly memory and or storage system can comprise any combination of various types of data storage and or transmission media that reside at one or more physical locations. Further device interfaces can comprise any module for exchanging information with one or more external devices. Still further it is understood that one or more additional components e.g. system software math co processing unit etc. not shown in can be included in computer system .

Storage system can be any type of system e.g. storage units A N of capable of providing storage for information under the present invention. To this extent storage system could include one or more storage devices such as magnetic disk drive or an optical disk drive. In another embodiment storage system includes data distributed across for example a local area network LAN wide area network WAN or a storage area network SAN not shown . In addition although not shown additional components such as cache memory communication systems system software etc. may be incorporated into computer system .

Shown in memory of computer system is PCM program which has a set of modules . Set of modules generally provide the functions of the present invention as described herein. Specifically among other things set of modules is configured to identify a set of objects whose energy consumption will be managed access a set of meta data for the set of objects the set of meta data corresponding to communication and energy conservation properties initiate an energy conservation request communicate instructions pertaining to the energy conservation request to at least one of the set of objects determine whether an acknowledgement is received from the at least one of the set of objects monitor the at least one of the set of objects to ensure compliance with the instructions enroll the set of objects with an energy control manager auto discover the set of objects within a system whose energy consumption is being managed by the energy control manager communicate a quiesce command requiring the set of objects to stop energy consumption traffic communicate signaling to the objects to modulate energy consumption generate communicate instructions indicating how much energy throttling is required and a time duration for the energy throttling.

While shown and described herein as a framework for managing consumption of energy it is understood that the invention further provides various alternative embodiments. For example in one embodiment the invention provides a computer readable useable medium that includes computer program code to enable a computer infrastructure to enable management of energy consumption. To this extent the computer readable useable medium contains program code that implements each of the various processes of the invention. It is understood that the terms computer readable medium or computer useable medium comprises one or more of any type of physical embodiment of the program code. In particular the computer readable useable medium can comprise program code embodied on one or more portable storage articles of manufacture e.g. a compact disc a magnetic disk a tape etc. on one or more data storage portions of a computing device such as memory and or storage system e.g. a fixed disk a read only memory a random access memory a cache memory etc. and or as a data signal e.g. a propagated signal traveling over a network e.g. during a wired wireless electronic distribution of the program code .

In another embodiment the invention provides a business method that performs the process of the invention on a subscription advertising and or fee basis. That is a service provider such as a Solution Integrator could offer to provide management of energy consumption. In this case the service provider can create maintain support etc. a computer infrastructure such as computer infrastructure that performs the process of the invention for one or more customers. In return the service provider can receive payment from the customers under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service provider can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

In still another embodiment the invention provides a computer implemented method for managing of energy consumption. In this case a computer infrastructure such as computer infrastructure can be provided and one or more systems for performing the process of the invention can be obtained e.g. created purchased used modified etc. and deployed to the computer infrastructure. To this extent the deployment of a system can comprise one or more of 1 installing program code on a computing device such as computer system from a computer readable medium 2 adding one or more computing devices to the computer infrastructure and 3 incorporating and or modifying one or more existing systems of the computer infrastructure to enable the computer infrastructure to perform the process of the invention.

As used herein it is understood that the terms program code and computer program code are synonymous and mean any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a computing device having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation and or b reproduction in a different material form. To this extent program code can be embodied as one or more of an application software program component software a library of functions an operating system a basic device system driver for a particular computing and or device and the like.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code can be provided hereunder and can include at least one processor communicatively coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include but are not limited to local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories that provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. Input output or device devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening device controllers.

Network adapters also may be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems remote printers storage devices and or the like through any combination of intervening private or public networks. Illustrative network adapters include but are not limited to modems cable modems and Ethernet cards.

The foregoing description of various aspects of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

