---

title: Micropulse laser guidance
abstract: A laser tracking processor is provided for integrating measured target-reflection signals used in directional control. The integration is performed to distinguish pulses reflected from the target against a noise background. The processor includes an optical detector, an accumulator, a correlator, a phase-lock loop and an integrator array. The optical detector receives the measured signals distributed among several guidance channels. The accumulator sums the measured signals as a combined signal for all the channels. The correlator temporally identifies an event that occurs to indicate a target-reflection pulse within the combined signal. The phase-lock loop synchronizes the event with a clock reference to produce a pulse window within which to search the combined signal for the pulses. The integrator array superimposes the measured signals within the pulse window for each channel to produce channel-specific integrated pulse signals. The processor can further include a sum integrator, a noise comparator and a reset trigger. The sum integrator superimposes a temporal sequence of combined signals from the accumulator as sum integration signals. The noise comparator determines whether the sum integrated signals exceed a noise threshold to set a detection satisfaction condition. The reset trigger initializes the temporal sequence of the integrator array and the sum integrator in response to the detection satisfaction condition, so that as the processor approaches the target, the guidance system can receive updates from the measured signals after becoming distinguishable above the noise.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07714989&OS=07714989&RS=07714989
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07714989
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081125
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 the benefit of priority from provisional application 61 005 118 with a filing date of Nov. 28 2007 is claimed for this non provisional application.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to pulse laser tracking. In particular this invention provides signal integration to distinguish a weak measured pulse reflected from a target against strong background noise.

A missile or projectile aimed at a target may include a targeting laser designator and a detector to receive reflected laser energy from the target. That reflection may be used to provide course correction information for terminal guidance to the target.

Historically the development of laser guided weapons began in the early 1960s. Two methods of missile guidance included a beam rider that follows the laser beam to the target and semi active guidance that directs to the reflected energy off the target. Semi active guidance was and remains preferred over the beam rider due to the former s advantage in releasing the weapon from a location beyond the target s line of sight.

Initially guidance processors for laser guidance weapons used analog electronics. Inertial sensors were bulky and expensive and thus not employed for these purposes. Even had inertial sensors been available the computations involved in strap down guidance would have been impossible in the volume and weight constraints available in a missile or bomb. With the advent of expendable miniature and powerful processors as well as inexpensive tactical grade sensors guidance algorithms can be much more capable and robust. Some guided weapons use the Global Positioning System GPS for positional updates at a one second rate.

Over the past several years the armed services have indicated a desire to replace the wavelength used by laser guided weapons from the non eye safe 1.06 m 1060 nm near infrared wavelength to the eye safe 1.54 m 1540 nm mid infrared eye safe wavelength. The longer wavelength has the additional advantages of a corresponding to less atmospheric attenuation and b greater sensitivity for its detectors. Despite these advantages converting to the longer wavelength has encountered opposition because of sunk costs associated with the existing designators and munitions that employ the shorter wavelength. The anticipated cost of replacing both munitions and designators is considered prohibitive thereby rendering equipment conversion impractical under conventional circumstances.

Conventional laser pulse tracking processors yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide a laser tracking processor for integrating measured target reflection signals used in directional control. The integration is performed to distinguish pulses reflected from the target against a severe noise background. The processor includes an optical detector an accumulator a correlator a phase lock loop and an integrator array. The optical detector receives the measured signals distributed among several guidance channels. The accumulator sums the measured signals as a combined signal for all the channels. The correlator temporally identifies an event that occurs to indicate a target reflection pulse within the combined signal. The phase lock loop synchronizes the event with a clock reference to produce a pulse window within which to search the combined signal for the pulses. The integrator array superimposes the measured signals within the pulse window for each channel to produce channel specific integrated pulse signals.

In alternate embodiments the processor can also include a sum integrator a noise comparator and a reset trigger. The sum integrator super imposes a temporal sequence of combined signals from the accumulator as sum integration signals. The noise comparator determines whether the sum integrated signals exceed a noise threshold to set a detection satisfaction condition. The reset trigger initializes the temporal sequence of the integrator array and the sum integrator in response to the detection satisfaction condition so that as the processor approaches the target the guidance system can receive updates from the measured signals after becoming distinguishable above the noise.

In various exemplary embodiments the comparator further includes a phase selector a plurality of integrators a corresponding plurality of thresholds and a logic gate. The phase selector sequences a plurality of phases within said combined signal each phase of said plurality of phases representing a finite temporal period. The integrators corresponding respectively to the phases superimposes said combined signal within each respective phase as an integrated phase signal. The thresholds compare said integrated phase signal against a phase threshold to determine a phase satisfaction condition. The logic gate indicates a threshold satisfying phase among the phases in response to at least one phase satisfaction condition.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Conventional laser designators are large heavy and consume considerable electrical power. Large power consumption necessitates large batteries at significant weight penalty and thermal management in the designator to dispose of the wasted energy because lasers are generally only 10 efficient . Because these designators are hand carried by soldiers and marines any additional weight constitutes a burden for which to seek reductions. Previous efforts to obtain relief have concentrated on designing more efficient designators.

Two factors drive the power output required by a designator. First the power in a single pulse must be sufficient to provide an adequate acquisition range to guide a missile to the target. Conventional designators output pulses in the 0.05 J to 0.10 J range and thus satisfy this requirement. Second the data pulse rate must be sufficient to provide stable guidance with a minimal miss distance. Because laser system guidance is based on the angular error to the target the rate of change of this angle increases as the missile closes range upon approach to the target.

Generally a higher data rate is desirable during terminal guidance. Changing the pulse rate of the designator from the conventional approximate 20 Hz rate to an exemplary pulse rate of around 2 Hz can reduce the power requirement of the designator by an order of magnitude i.e. factor of ten . This order of power savings greatly exceeds that available by more efficient lasers or switching to a more efficient wavelength. The benefit from replacing conventional laser designators with devices that employ much less power provides advantages that can justify contemporaneous switching from the non eye safe 1.06 m wavelength to the 1.54 m eye safe wavelength for the seeker.

Conventional laser designators include the following characteristic disadvantages a bulky voluminous and massive heavy with high power requirements b not eye safe c easily detectable by the target due to the high power illumination d reveal location of the designator tracing back to the illumination source e can be counter measured by jamming f have limited availability as an asset due to high relative cost.

The cost and weight of conventional designators can be acceptable for airborne designators but limits the use of laser guided weapons for the infantry in the field. For small light man portable weapons such as mortars and rocket propelled grenades the size weight and cost of the designator affects the deployment of a laser guided system. The fact that the designator is not eye safe limits the use and deployment of laser systems in urban and mixed environments. This expansion of operational field use constitutes the primary motivation for a switch to an eye safe wavelength.

The signals from the detector are amplified by a preamplifier and a video amplifier to augment signal strength. These signals are tapped for each separate channel to a summation accumulator to produce a combined signal that proceeds to a splitter . The signals also proceed to a sampler each channel corresponding to an individual sample hold register at a specified time. From the sampler the values for each channel correspond to a record .

A code source provides the separation interval between source pulses projected to the detector . A reference clock synchronizes the interval to produce the selected pulse frequency. The pulses can be repeated at an interval based on the frequency which can be established by a pre set value or varied according to a pseudo random basis.

A correlator evaluates the combined signal at each sample event as the signals travel chronologically. For this purpose the correlator includes a shift register having a series of taps that feed to an AND gate adder . The accumulator provides via the splitter the combined signal to the correlator and to a phase lock loop PLL that generates a tracking interval window within which to distinguish the received pulse signals from background noise.

The clock synchronizes both the phase lock loop and the shift register . The phase lock loop receives both the summation signal via the splitter as well as the correlated shift register signal from the adder . In response the phase lock loop adjusts the sampler so that the received pulse for each channel occurs within the window . In this manner all pulses outside the window are ignored as spurious.

The shift register receives the combined signal in temporal series via the splitter over a sampling interval. The taps register signal strength at selected samples along the sampling interval that feed to the adder . In response to the AND gate signal exceeding an appropriate threshold the received signal from the detector corresponds to a reflection of the source pulse thereby indicating target acquisition for tracking and or fire control purposes. The adder provides a feedback signal to the phase lock loop which corrects the position of the combined signal at the splitter so that the window encapsulates the adder signal that exceeds the threshold. The sample values for course intercept correction can be stored at the record .

This conventional configuration requires strong source signals for intended detection by a tracking receiver. Such signals can be detected by the target which may take evasive action. Target response may include maneuvers to avoid interception and or attacks against the illumination source and or interference with the return reflection. To reduce such target opportunities the illumination signal should preferably possess sufficiently low energy as to be difficult to distinguish from electromagnetic noise. This enables the laser source to use less power with attendant reductions in weight as well as attenuate ability by the target to detect the laser pulse.

Specifically the pulse energy can be reduced in this manner by five orders of magnitude i.e. a factor of about 10 . With conventional systems the pulses are temporally separated by a frequency of between ten and twenty pulses per second. Existing range finders currently limit exemplary embodiments to about eight thousand pulses per second but in principle higher rates of pulse generation cannot be disregarded in subsequent applications. Micro pulse illumination and detection presents an alternative pulse coding scheme for laser guidance to support improvements in the design of the designator and seeker yielding improved performance of both.

The correlator includes a rotary switch a phase integrator bank a phase threshold bank and an OR gate . The summation signal from the accumulator via the splitter and the OR gate output both feed into a phase lock loop . The reset trigger restarts over for the next sequence of pulses to be integrated together. The phase lock loop provides a window to adjust the interval for recording pulses via the integrator array .

The integrator array includes channel integrators for each quadrant channel A B C and D. The accumulator acquires amplified sample signals and collects these to be distributed from the splitter to the matched filter the sum integrator and the phase lock loop . The matched filter isolates received signals within specified frequency ranges. The sum integrator collects the combined signals superpositioning pulse amplitudes until these are distinguishable from noise. The threshold establishes the amplitude at which this distinction confidently satisfies guidance requirements using the signals distributed among the channels of the integrator array . The reset trigger reinitializes both the sum integrator and the integrator array to begin another series of pulse accumulations.

The correlator is designed to temporally locate the pulses for integration in the process assigning the window for the integrator array . The rotary switch receives the filtered signal from the matched filter and assigns the signal in convolution to one of a series of phases ranging from 1 to N. This switching can alternatively be implemented by other forms of sequencing. For non regular intervals established by the code source the phases may have non uniformly temporal distribution. The sum of N samples proceeds as a box car moving average over a time period T within which the pulses are distributed.

For each phase the signals are integrated i.e. amplitudes concatenated in the phase integrator bank and compared to the corresponding threshold in the phase threshold bank . In response to at least one phase exceeding its threshold the OR gate provides input to the phase lock loop to indicate that the pulses are properly identified within the window . In an alternative configuration the logic may compromise the necessity of a single phase with an appropriate subset that provides proper confidence that the proper laser designation pulses are indeed identified.

In this manner the signal gain need not be adjusted. Moreover sequencing by the switch enables corner reflections to be overcome as individual errors are discarded. Comparison of amplitude integration between pulse and noise is described subsequently. The advantage provided by exemplary embodiments for terminal guidance in context of the reset trigger allows the sample number to decrease as the missile approaches the target with stronger reflected signal necessitating fewer integration pulses needed to exceed threshold than at farther distances.

The number of pulses that are integrated determines the signal to noise ratio and data rate of the guidance loop. For threshold comparison as the number N of sampling pulses rises Gaussian noise increases as square root over N or N based on root mean square of random fluctuation of N pulses. However superimposed signals add linearly as N so that the signal strength gains with each additional pulse to drive the higher number N of pulses being integrated. For N pulses the signal amplitude has N times the signal level for a single pulse. By contrast the noise root variance standard deviation grows with the square root of N or square root over N . Thus the signal to noise ratio SNR grows by a factor of N square root over N square root over N with increasing number N of pulses.

A data sample for the guidance loop becomes available only upon completion of the signal integration. For a basic pulse rate of 10 kHz with a thousand pulses being integrated the guidance loop data rate becomes 10 Hz. By integrating more or fewer pulses the data rate correspondingly increases or decreases. The number of pulses can be adjusted such that the signal to noise ratio remains constant depending on signal strength. For this condition the data rate increases as the missile closes on the target as described previously.

The line of sight angle and angle rate dynamics vary inversely with range to target. Consequently for these embodiments the missile s guidance loop receives a higher data rate under the most efficacious conditions. This change in data rate occurs inherently between the designator and the seeker and represents an automatic improvement without coordination between the two systems.

The variable pulse integration technique provides an additional option. For platforms that can support the weight and price of a higher power designator the seeker would have a higher data rate and could be used against mobile maneuverable targets. For stationary and non maneuvering targets a lower power smaller lighter and cheaper designator could be used particularly by infantry. This means that soldiers and marines who more than likely would be using simple weapons such as mortars against stationary targets could do so with a lightweight inexpensive designator.

The update signal shows spikes corresponding to these occurrences. For example peaks in the update signal can be observed at 1.4 4.0 5.3 6.0 6.7 7.4 7.9 8.5 9.1 and 9.8 seconds. The intervals between these update peaks generally decrease with time. Especially at 5.0 seconds amplitude of the signal indicates a step increase with attendant reduction in update intervals. Thus for time values along the abscissa before 5.0 seconds at the lower pulse amplitudes the intervals between resets average about 2.0 seconds whereas after 5.0 seconds at the higher pulse amplitudes the reset intervals average about 0.5 second.

The approach to the target of the pulse source and receiver reduces the accumulation time necessary to integrate pulses sufficient to overcome the threshold . Electromagnetic field strength increases inversely with the square of the radius from the source whether transmission or reflection. This radius corresponds to the distance between the pulse reflecting target to pulse receiving detector so that fewer pulses need be integrated over less time per update to achieve detection. This time reduction facilitates more rapid response to permit terminal course correction trajectory changes.

A further description is presented regarding guidance based on the detector response. An incoming laser pulse reflected from the targeting source not shown focuses on the four quadrant detector to shine a circular laser spot thereon. A lens system also not shown deliberately blurs the laser reflection region of intensity to widen dispersion among the four quadrants A upper left B upper right C lower left and D lower right . Under conditions in which the source points to the target the spot distribution applies equally on all four quadrants with the spot s center corresponding to the corner intersection of the quadrants. Otherwise the laser spot does not deposit equally among all four quadrants and the spot s center deviates from the quadrant intersection.

The deviation from the source s line of sight to the target can be measured by two angles an up down pitch angle and a port starboard yaw angle. These angles derive from the energy of the spot distributed among the four quadrants and can be approximated by A B C D A B C D and A C B D A B C D where represents the angle corresponding to a control maneuver instruction represents up down pitch deviation represents port starboard yaw deviation and channels A B C and D represent the received sample values of energy detected for each respective quadrant. Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that a quadrant divided receiver is merely exemplary and that other plurality divisions can be employed for adequate course corrections without departing from the scope of the invention.

To derive the energy in the four quadrants the laser pulses received by the detector must be amplified and sampled at the correct time interval i.e. within the window . The received pulses as a pulse train are amplified by the pre amplifier and video amplifier . To sample the pulses at the correct time the pulse train must be detected within the noise and tracked. The processing electronics recognize the pulse train in the presence of the noise pulses mixed together. Also there may be other extraneous pulse sources such as a jammer or another valid pulse train at a different pulse interval for another projectile also illuminates the target. The correlator may thereby lock on to the valid pulse train. The correlator recognizes the pulse train by superimposing the noisy pulse input with a pulse train at the valid pulse interval.

For the conventional processor the shift register performs this correlation. A signal is inserted into the shift register in digital form registering as a 1 for a pulse and as a 0 for its absence. The shift resister is clocked at some multiple of the pulse interval. Taps obtain signals from the shift register which correspond to pulses at the correct pulse interval. These taps are logically added as shown by AND gate . At the correct pulse interval through the shift register each of the four taps registers 1 together concurrently thereby indicating that the AND gate has identified the sought interval.

The probability of noise pulses causing false identifications can be diminished by increasing the number of taps . Upon identifying the pulse train a phase lock loop or similar mechanism can be used to track the pulse train. The phase lock loop creates a sampling clock to sample the pulse amplitudes at the proper time. In some systems the correlator and phase lock loop are performed in software using a micro controller.

The micropulse processor has many similar components as the conventional processor but differs by the pulse amplitudes being below the noise floor of the amplifiers . The pulse train amplitude is diminutive compared to the noise completely obscuring the pulses from detection over the noise profile . Integrating the pulse train over the pulse interval whether steady or shifting according to the code source the integral output of multiple pulses rises above the noise background . The phase lock loop controls the integration window after the correlator identifies the pulses in the integrated pulse train .

In order to detect the pulse train buried in the sampling noise the correlator must integrate over several pulses performing the same function as the A B C and D integrators without the benefit of knowing the correct phase of the incoming pulse train. The correlator must search for the correct phase and lock on to the pulse train. The matched filter boosts the signal to noise ratio SNR before the signal goes into the correlator . The matched filter for a rectangular pulse provides a shifting definite integral of the input over the pulse width T i.e. the interval between pulses over the last seconds of the pulse width as expressed by 

The correlator computes the integrals of sequential pulses. These integrals are computed for all possible phases of the desired pulse train . This phase search process is illustrated in the diagram as a rotary switch with outputs to the integrator bank . The rotary switch rotates at the sample rate of the processor making one complete revolution in a pulse repetition interval not the pulse width interval T . Each tap of the rotary switch corresponds to a possible phase of the pulse train. The input signals are averaged over the last pulse width T and sequentially input to the corresponding integrator in the integrator bank for that phase.

The rotary switch then sequences to the next integrator for the next phase and returns to the original integrator in a single pulse repetition interval thereby adding again superpositioning to the integral for that phase. The first integrator to ramp up to its set threshold thus indicates a lock onto the pulse sequence as illustrated with the OR gate . The phase of the integrator in the integrator bank that exceeds the threshold first indicates the phase of the incoming pulse waveform . This lock on can then be used to synchronize the phase lock loop .

The phase detector as provided by the OR gate and synchronized by the phase lock loop cannot use the edges of the signal to track the incoming pulse because the pulse amplitude is below the noise floor. Consequently a simple sequential type phase lock loop cannot be used. The phase detector employs integration to detect the signal buried in the noise profile . A mixer type of phase lock loop with a long time constant filter can track a signal buried in the noise . Some variation of this phase lock loop such as in software may be used to implement the phase lock loop function.

Upon tracking and integrating the signal the number N of pulses integrated must be counted. The more pulses that are integrated the larger the signal level increases the signal to noise ratio SNR . The number of pulses to be integrated may be set from examination of the integral from the accumulator i.e. channel sum . In response to the signal level of sum channel integrator exceeding an appropriate threshold the integrator and integrator array are reset by the trigger . This sets the signal to noise ratio SNR because the noise level remains substantially consistent and the signal level of the accumulator adjusts by the number N of integrated pulses. shows the results from terminating the integrators at a fixed sum signal level that reaches the threshold. In the first half of sampling interval 5.0 sec the signal amplitude triples from that of the first half.

The signal accumulation increases more rapidly producing a higher sample rate and thus shorter intervals between reset for course correction updates to the guidance system. Consequently the data rate increases as the missile closes on the target while maintaining a constant signal to noise ratio throughout.

To summarize micro pulse laser guidance replaces a pulse train of high power low rate pulses with a micro pulse train of much smaller amplitude pulses at a much higher data rate. The lower pulse amplitude necessitates integration by the seeker of multiple pulses such that the signal to noise ratio exceeds unity at minimum . This superficially resembles GPS spread spectrum coding in which the Big Bang cosmic background radiation noise exceeds signal strength to avoid interference with radio astronomy. That code can sufficiently randomized so that the signal cannot be detected without prior knowledge of the proper interval sequence rendering the signal covert for military purposes.

Switching to such a coding scheme for laser guidance provides the covert nature as with GPS. Reducing the delectability of the designator that illuminates the target by employing less power obviates the employment of countermeasures and evasive action by that target. This provides a clandestine advantage beyond that solely obtainable from frequency shifting. Additionally spreading the energy temporally augments the eye safe nature of the longer wavelength that would become more practical under these embodiments. Finally such a coding scheme enables the missile seeker to employ a variable guidance loop data rate without changing the designator coding scheme.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

