---

title: Functional anchors connecting graphene-like carbon to metal
abstract: Functional linkers or anchors interconnecting graphene-like carbon, such as nanotubes or graphite sheets, with a conducting material such as a metal, are shown, together with related structures, devices, methods and systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08481421&OS=08481421&RS=08481421
owner: California Institute of Technology
number: 08481421
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080724
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 961 867 filed on Jul. 25 2007 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 962 082 filed on Jul. 26 2007 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention pursuant to Grant No s . CCF 0524490 CTS 0548774 awarded by the National Science Foundation.

The present disclosure relates to organic linkers. In particular it relates to a functional linker linking a graphene like carbon and or a graphene sheet with a conducting material. More in particular in some embodiments it relates to a structure comprising a carbon nanotube or a graphene sheet a metal and an organic linker linking the carbon nanotube with the metal.

Carbon nanotubes graphene sheets such as single graphene sheets SGS and arrays of these materials hereafter referred to collectively as graphene like carbon or GLC have enormous opportunities for novel electric mechanical and chemical properties See references 1 5 . Numerous breakthroughs have been demonstrated successfully and have led to practical fabrication of carbon nanotube electronics devices such as transistors interconnects spintronics and sensors See references 6 8 .

GLCs are also promising candidate materials for lowest level on chip interconnect conducting material of future integrated circuits because they address such issues as signal propagation delay and process integration density and scaling which are currently limited by Cu and Al metal wires.

However a fundamental problem with these systems is the nature of the attachment to supports and conducting material. Major issues are mechanical stability integrity of the electrical contact and contact resistance between the conducting material that constitutes the support or the electrode ES and the GLC hereafter denoted the ES GLC interface.

The difficulty in achieving the desired mechanical and electrical properties arises from the nature of the bonding in GLC which is characterized by spor planar carbons with strong delocalization or resonance in the out of plane pi orbitals. As a result the atoms in these planes interact only weakly with a support or electrode onto which they are attached. This leads to low binding energies sometimes called van der Waals or Noncovalent bonding and consequently weak mechanical strength. Concomitantly there is little delocalization of the active electrons the GLC with the ES leading to a high contact resistance low current for a given voltage across the interface and capacitance due to accumulation of charge as the voltage is ramped with time .

Quantum mechanics QM methods Green s function see references 16 21 with density functional theory DFT have been used to evaluate these mechanical and electrical properties from first principles. It has been shown that the most popular choices for electrodes Cu Au and Pt in the current settings lead to very poor mechanical and electrical properties. Of the more noble metals less susceptible to oxidation Pd has been shown to be the best in the current settings. It has also been shown that electropositive metals such as Ti the same would be true for Sc Ni Y Ru La Os Ac Lw make good mechanical and electrical contacts in the current settings but may lead to practical problems since in the current settings they react with the carbon from the GLC and shows a diminished mechanical and electrical contact in presence of oxygen.

The above problems are also present in fuel cell technology. With reference to fuel cell electrodes transport of protons electrons and molecules are all determining factors in high performance fuel cell electrodes see reference 24 One strategy for enhancing mass and electron transport is to use a nanostructured fuel cell electrode consisting of carbon nanotubes CNT loaded with Pt nanoparticles Pt NPs see references 25 28 . The same problems identified above apply to fuel cells manufactured according to this strategy and used the settings currently known.

A further issue relates to the ES material used. Cu is currently the leading on chip interconnect for integrated circuits with fabrication processes established in the 1990 s that have been well studied and improved since then. see references 46 49 Advantages of Cu that have led to its extensive use in electronics is that it has the second highest electrical conductivity of pure metals and is abundant and inexpensive. Thus it would be most desirable to connect Cu electrodes directly to the GLCs. However it has been previously shown that the Cu CNT interface in the current settings leads to extremely high contact resistance 11.7 M 672 times worse than Ti 17.4 k and 74 times worse than Pd CNT interface 159 k . see reference 50 In addition in the current settings Cu is mechanically weak. see reference 50 As a result metal contacts to CNT electrodes have preferred Pd with little use of Cu.

Structures methods and systems are herein disclosed that allow an attachment between a GLC and a conducting material that ensures mechanical stability integrity of the electrical contact thermal contact and or a minimized contact resistance and capacitance between the conducting material and the GLC. As a consequence the structures methods and systems herein disclosed can be used to provide an ES GCL interface in any devices structures and systems wherein an ES GCL interface is used or desirable.

According to a first aspect a structure is disclosed the structure comprising a graphene like carbon a conducting material and a functional linker linking the graphene like carbon and the conducting material thus forming a graphene like carbon functional linker conducting material structure.

According to a second aspect an integrated circuit is disclosed. The integrated circuit comprises a structure herein disclosed. In particular the integrated circuit can include at least one interconnect layer and at least one electrode. More particularly in the integrated circuit the functional linker can link a graphene like carbon in the at least one interconnect layer with a conducting material in the at least one electrode.

According to a third aspect a method of manufacturing an integrated circuit is disclosed. The method comprises providing at least one electrode the electrode comprising conducting material providing at least one interconnect layer the interconnect layer comprising graphene like carbon providing a functional linker able to link the conducting material and the graphene like carbon and contacting the at least one electrode with the functional linker and the at least one portion of the interconnect layer to form an electrode functional linker interconnect layer structure the electrode functional linker interconnect layer structure being part of the integrated circuit.

According to a fourth aspect a fuel cell is disclosed. The fuel cell comprises a support comprising a graphene like carbon an anode comprising a conducting material a proton exchange electrolyte membrane and a cathode comprising a conducting material wherein at least one of the anode and the cathode is linked to the graphene like carbon by a functional linker capable of linking the conducting material and the graphene like carbon in a graphene like carbon functional linker conducting material structure.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure an approach is provided to improve the electrical contact reducing the contact resistance and capacitance of the ES GLC while simultaneously improving the mechanical strength of the ES GLC interface.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure ES GLC interfaces can be provided with at least one or any combination of a mechanical stability b electrical contact c thermal contact and or d minimized contact resistance capacitance between the conducting material and the GLC improved with respect to prior art structures.

The details of one or more embodiments of the disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Structures methods and systems are disclosed wherein graphene like carbon is linked with a conducting material by a functional linker. In particular a structure is described comprising a graphene like carbon a. conducting material and a functional linker linking the graphene like carbon and the conducting material thus forming a graphene like carbon functional linker conducting material structure.

The wording graphene like carbon as used herein indicates a carbon containing material comprising an sp2 bonded carbon atom Exemplary graphene like carbon includes but are not limited to carbon nanotubes such as single walled carbon nanotubes double walled carbon nanotubes multiple walled carbon nanotubes carbon nanotube bundles and carbon nanotube fibers single layer graphenes multiple layer graphenes graphite surfaces and graphene nano ribbons. Additional exemplary graphene like carbon include fullerenes such as amorphous carbon wherein the term amorphous carbon indicates a carbon containing material in which there is no long range order of the positions of the atoms comprising an sp2 bonded carbon atom. Exemplary amorphous carbons are given by fuel cell catalyst carbon support and diamond like carbon.

The wording conducting material as used herein indicates any material able to conduct an electric current wherein an electric current is the flow movement of an electric charge. Exemplary conducting materials according to the present disclosure include but are not limited to metals metal alloys metal carbides metal hydrides metal oxides metal sulfides wherein the term metal indicates an element that readily loses electrons to form positive ions cations and forms metallic bonds between other metal atoms forming ionic bonds with non metals the term metal alloys indicate is a solid solution or homogeneous mixture of two or more elements at least one of which is a metal which itself has metallic properties the term metal carbide indicates a compound comprising a carbon metal bond the term metal hydrides indicates a compound comprising a hydrogen metal bond the term metal oxides indicates a compound comprising a oxygen metal bond.

Exemplary metals include but are not limited to transition metals and more particularly to platinum palladium titanium copper tungsten gold and silver. Exemplary metal alloys include but are not limited to Pt3Co and other alloys of cobalt alloys of copper and alloys of silver. Exemplary metal carbides include but are not limited to TiC WC and TaC Exemplary metal hydrides include but are not limited to PdH and PtH. Exemplary metal oxides include but are not limited TiO2 VOx FeOx with x 2 or 3 and ITO. Exemplary metal sulfides include but are not limited to MoS2 FeS ZnS AgS.

The term link linker linking and the likes as used herein indicate a connection between at least two materials wherein the two materials share electrons. In particular the term linker indicates a material able to share electrons with at least one material other than the linker itself.

The wording functional linker or functional anchor as used herein indicates any material including a first portion able to link a graphene like carbon and a second portion able to link a conducting material. In particular according to the present disclosure the functional linker can bond to the graphene like carbon through a covalent bond and to the conducting material through an electron sharing bond. A covalent bond is a form of chemical bonding that is characterized by the sharing of pairs of electrons between atoms or between atoms and other covalent bonds Exemplary covalent bonds include but are not limited to bonding bonding metal metal bonding agostic interactions and three center two electron bonds. Exemplary electron sharing bond include but are not limited to ionic bond hydrogen bond and covalent bond

The linkage between GLC conducting material and functional anchor is schematically illustrated in . In the schematic illustration of the structure includes a GLC a conducting material and a functional linker . In the structure the functional linker or anchor comprises 2 organic functional groups at head and tail of the linker which can form chemical bonds with GLC and conducting material respectively

In an exemplary embodiment schematically illustrated in a functional molecular anchor connects a metal contact to a carbon carbon nanotube or CNT both mechanically and electrically in a structure . In the illustration of the structure also includes a support below metal . As shown throughout the present disclosure an appropriate molecular anchor can function as an electron transport helper and as a mechanical mobility stopper.

In some embodiments the functional linker is a conjugated functional linker wherein a conjugated functional linker indicates a linker including delocalized electrons within an orbital that extends across adjacent parallel aligned p orbitals. More particularly conjugated functional linker indicates atoms covalently bonded with alternating single and multiple e.g. double bonds e.g. C C C C C in a molecule of an organic compound.

In some embodiments the functional anchor is an organic linker wherein an organic functional linker is a linker formed by any chemical compound that comprises carbon In some embodiments the functional linker has a general formula ABZwith l 0 or 1 m 0 or 1 and n 0 or 1 wherein at least one of l and n is 1 wherein A is a functional group having the ability to bind to the conducting material Z is a functional group having the ability to bind the graphene like carbon and B is a functional group having the ability to bind to both A and Z. The wording functional group as used herein indicates a specific group of atoms within a molecule that is responsible for the characteristic chemical reactions of that molecule. The same functional group will undergo the same or similar chemical reaction s regardless of the size of the molecule it is a part of. However its relative reactivity can be modified by nearby functional groups.

In some embodiments functional group A can be a compound binding the conducting material through a H bond selected from the group consisting of QRp wherein Q is an element independently selected from the group consisting of O N C B S P Si Al Se As Ge Ga In Sn Sb Te Ti Pb Bi and Po R is any combination of atoms bonded to Q p is equal to or greater than 0 or any combination of two or more of said QRp linked together through X with X being a collection of atoms.

In some embodiments functional group A can be selected from the group consisting of a carboxylic group nitrogen carboxamide thiol sulfuric acid phosphate acid benzene acetylene amide and any of the compounds having the following formulas S O N SO3 COO and CON .

In some embodiments functional group Z is a group able to bind a p orbital in the graphene like carbon and in particular identifies a group able to bind the p orbital through a orbital a orbital or an sp3 orbital. In some embodiments functional group Z can be selected from the group consisting of phenyl acetyl oxygen nitrogen and a carbon containing group binding a p orbital in the graphene like carbon through a p orbital in the carbon containing group.

In some embodiments functional group B is a compound of formula CR wherein R can be independently selected from H a group containing oxygen e.g. hydroxyl carbonyl aldehyde carbonate ester carboxylate carboxyl ester hydroperoxy peroxy amide or other groups containing nitrogen e.g. carboxamide primary amine secondary amine tertiary amine 4 ammonium ion primary ketamine secondary ketimine primary aldimine secondary aldimine imide azide azo diimide cyanate isocyanate isothiocyanate nitrate nitrite nitrile nitrosooxy nitro nitroso pyridil an halogen e.g. fluoro chloro bromo and iodo or a group containing phosphorous or sulphur e.g. phosphino phosphate phosphono sulfonyl sulfo sulfinyl sulfhydryl thiocyanate disulfide m 0 1 or 2 and n integer. In particular functional group B comprises a linear substituted or unsubstituted aliphatic compound that can comprise an aromatic or aliphatic ring but that generally links A and Z through an aliphatic moiety. In some embodiments functional group B can be selected from the group consisting of conjugated groups such as C C C C C C C C C C which can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more of the above mentioned groups.

The specific A B and Z for a specific structure depend on the specific GLC and conducting material connected by the anchor.

For example in some embodiments of the structures associated with mechanical stability of the ES GLC interface the functional linker can be linked to the GLC and the conducting material through covalent bond. Exemplary functional linkers representative of this embodiments are

As a further example in embodiments of the structure associated with increased electrical connection and or reduced resistance capacitance of ES GLC interface over prior art structures the functional linker can be any linker with an energy state such that a flow of electron can occur upon linkage of the functional linker with the conducting material and the GLC of choice. More particularly in some of those embodiments wherein a source and a drain formed of conducting materials are linked to the GLC also the GLC and the conducting material forming the source and the drain can be selected so that a flow of electrons from the source through the GLC to the drain can occur upon linkage of the source and the drain with the GLC of choice. Exemplary functional linkers that can be used in structures associated with enhanced electrical conductivity are

Exemplary embodiments of the structures herein disclosed are illustrated in and in the known see from reference 76 wherein in the formulas of R is C is any moiety and n is an integer.

According to one of the embodiments of the present disclosure the GLC is first prepared with some density of such pendent groups on the GLC to form the mono functionalized GLC hereafter m GLC according to a strategy identifiable by a skilled person upon reading of the present disclosure. Applicants expect that a suitable coverage might be from 1 1000 to above might be a problem because of steric interactions with a range of 1 10 to 1 100 likely to be best.

Alternatively for an oxide electrode or support eliminating the H might accompany forming a support A B Z GLC bond and similarly for other electrodes. This then leads to a strongly bound ES GLC interface stitched together by the functional anchor. Examples of such functional anchors A B Z are given in .

The strong covalent bonding necessarily leads to improved electrical contact with reduced contact resistance. In particular a very dramatic decrease in contact resistance occurs when the functional anchor has a planar component with pi bonds that can couple near the Fermi energy with the conduction and valence band electrons of the GLC and of the ES.

In some embodiments the conducting material is a metal and the metal can be platinum copper palladium gold silver ruthenium and nickel.

The functional anchors according to the present disclosure can improve the properties for any ES GLC interface. However particularly useful is the application for the case in which ES Cu Au Pt which are commonly used for various applications in microelectronics nanoelectronics nanotechnology fuel cells solar cells and related technologies. Thus the functional anchors of the present disclosure can improve the properties for Cu to be superior to that of Pd without an anchor allowing continued use of this material in microelectronics.

In some embodiments the functional anchors can be selected from SH OH NH COOH CONH SOH. In some of those embodiments such functional groups are expected to lose hydrogen atoms as they attach to the metal surface making a strong covalent bond that should provide good electrical contact small contact resistance between the CNT and metal while also providing a good mechanical connection preventing thermal diffusion of the carbon nanotubes as exemplified in Example 1 for a Pt contact electrode.

In accordance with the present disclosure the functional anchors herein described can be used to tie together a conducting material and a GLC in an ES GLC interface which can be part of various devices structures and systems.

In particular in some embodiments the structure herein described can be used in an ES GLC interface in electronic applications and more particularly in an integrated circuit. In electronics an integrated circuit also known as IC microcircuit microchip silicon chip or chip is a miniaturized electronic circuit consisting mainly of semiconductor devices as well as passive components that is manufactured on the surface of a thin substrate of semiconductor material. Integrated circuits are used in almost all electronic equipments currently in use and have revolutionized the world of electronics.

According to some embodiments an integrated circuit is therefore disclosed that comprises a structure herein disclosed. In particular in the integrated circuit at least one interconnect layer can comprise a graphene like carbon and at least one electrode can comprise a conducting material. In the integrated circuit the graphene like carbon and the conducting material can be linked by a functional linker herein disclosed.

In some embodiments the integrated circuit can comprise additional element including but not limited to a substrate and in particular a crystalline semiconductor substrate one or more electronic and or optical devices which might include electrodes elements formed by dielectric material e.g. dielectric layers and interconnect layers. In some embodiments the interconnect layers can connect electronic devices according to a predetermined pattern and or at least one interconnect layer comprises an organic anchor.

A crystalline semiconductor substrate can be formed by a thin slice of semiconductor material such as a silicon crystal used in the fabrication of integrated circuit and other microdevices.

An electronic device can be any physical entity in an electronic system whose function is to affect the electrons or their associated fields in a desired manner consistent with the intended function of the electronic system. Devices are generally intended to be in mutual electromechanical contact usually by being soldered to a printed circuit board PCB to create an electronic circuit with a particular function for example an amplifier radio receiver or oscillator . Devices may be packaged singly or in more or less complex groups as integrated circuits.

A dielectric material can be formed by a nonconducting substance i.e. an insulator. Dielectric layer is usually used for isolating components or structures in the active circuit from each other and as dielectric structures for MOS transistors capacitors and the like. Interconnect layer for a semiconductor device can be formed in a region located on an opening by depositing graphene like material such as carbon nanotubes.

Functional anchors suitable to be used in an integrated circuit include any functional linker herein disclosed and in particular an organic functional anchor particularly suitable for enhancing the electrical contact and or minimize contact resistance with a conducting material linked to the anchor.

In some embodiments an integrated circuit can be manufactured by providing an electrode that is formed at least in part by a conducting material providing at least one interconnect layer comprising a graphene like carbon such as a carbon nanotube providing a functional linker able to linker the conducting material and the carbon nanotube and contacting the functional linker with the interconnect layer and the electrode thus forming an interconnect layer functional linker electrode structure the structure forming the integrated circuit.

forming an electronic device on the semiconductor substrate e.g. by depositing a conducting material on the substrate to form an electrode 

forming an interconnect layer on the semiconductor substrate e.g. by depositing the interconnect layer on the substrate 

wherein at least one of the interconnect layers deposited comprises a graphene like carbon material e.g. a nanotube composition 

wherein the nanotube or other graphene like carbon material is linked to the electronic device by a functional anchor and in particular an organic anchor and wherein

the substrate comprising the electronic device the dielectric layer and the interconnect layer being part of the integrated circuit

The method to manufacture the integrated circuit can also comprise dicing the integrated circuit and possibly packaging the resulting diced integrated circuit.

An exemplary embodiment that might be used to implement the assembly of CNT anchor Cu electrode systems is illustrated in example 7 and related . There have been studies which reported ways to implement the CNTs at a specific place on the wafer by functionalizing the CNTs or by functionalizing the surface of the substrate or both. Some of the functional molecules from the CNT surface can be successfully removed and pristine CNTs are restored Panel a . After this process the CNTs can be masked for the implementation of the electrodes to avoid unfavorable deformations of the CNTs Panel b followed by treatment with anchor precursors Panel c .

In some embodiments the nanotubes can be manufactured in a separate process prior to being deposited on the semiconductor substrate. In some embodiments the method to manufacture an integrated circuit further comprises a step of chemical mechanical polishing of the semiconductor substrate at some point after deposition of an interconnect layer.

According to a further embodiment of the present disclosure use of the functional molecular anchors is shown for nanostructured fuel cell electrocatalysts. In particular in some embodiments a fuel cell is described that comprises an anode a proton exchange electrolyte membrane and a cathode wherein the anode and or the cathode comprise organic anchors. The wording fuel cell as used herein indicates an electrochemical conversion device. It produces electricity from fuel on an anode site and an oxidant on a cathode side which react in the presence of an electrolyte. The reactants flow into the cell and the reaction products flow out of it while the electrolyte remains within it. Fuel cells can operate virtually continuously as long as the necessary flows are maintained.

An anode is an electrode through which positive electric current flows into a polarized electrical device. A cathode is an electrode through which positive electric current flows out of a polarized electrical device.

In fuel cell system a proton exchange electrolyte membrane having first and second sides and wherein said first side is contiguous with the second side of said anode screen electrode i.e. interposed between the anode and cathode.

In some embodiments the fuel cell includes a catalyst and the same or another functional linker used to link at least one of the electrodes anode and or cathode can also be used to link a catalyst. In some embodiments the functional linker is an organic linker. In some embodiments the functional linker and in particular an organic linker is comprised in the fuel cell to link a catalyst support and a Pt nano catalyst to form a fuel cell electrode catalyst see the exemplary schematic illustration of .

In some embodiments the organic anchors are to link catalysts and catalyst supports within the anode and or the cathode.

In some embodiments the anode reaction performed in fuel cell herein disclosed is a reduction of hydrogen.

In some embodiments the anode reaction performed in fuel cell herein disclosed is a reduction of methanol.

In some embodiments the fuel cell further comprises an anode current collector. In some embodiments the fuel cell further comprises manifolds which deliver fuel and oxidant to the anode and cathode respectively. In some embodiments the anode electrolyte membrane and cathode form a membrane electrode assembly with a thickness of no more than about 300 m. In some embodiments the catalyst support comprises between 25 wt. and 35 wt. catalyst.

The structures methods and systems herein disclosed are further illustrated in the following examples which are provided by way of illustration and are not intended to be limiting the scope of the present disclosure. The experimental setup and materials used for the following examples are described in Section S2 of Annex A which forms part of the present disclosure and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

To study the interface structures and anchor energies Applicants used in the embodiment here described a three layer 2 2 Pt 111 slab to represent the Pt surface and a single graphene sheet to represent the carbon nanotube surface. These two surfaces were connected using various molecular anchors with one anchor per cell. Applicants then optimized the structures for the Pt slab anchor graphene system while fixing the two bottom layers of Pt atoms.

What is desired is that both the graphene anchor bond and the anchor Pt bond are strong for a good anchor of the Pt particle to the CNT surface.

Applicants used first principle simulations i.e. simulations starting directly at the level of established laws of physics and does not make assumptions such as model and fitting parameters to predict

The following functional groups were considered by Applicants SH OH NH COOH CONH SOH. Such functional groups are expected to lose hydrogen atoms as they attach to the metal surface making a strong covalent bond that should provide good electrical contact small contact resistance between the CNT and metal while also providing a good mechanical connection preventing thermal diffusion of the carbon nanotubes .

According to the results illustrated in the N anchor has the closest distance and also the strongest anchor energy. The S anchor shows that the bond between S Pt is strong enough to grab the sulfur atoms from the carbon surface. The chemical bond between S and carbon is broken. The conjugated anchors such as COO and CON have very good anchor energies.

To determine the contact resistance of for various anchors Applicants formed the sandwich slab structure shown in a simulation model that comprises 2 metal electrodes 2 organic anchor layers and 2 graphene layers and calculated the current voltage performance resistance by combining Green function s theory 16 21 with a DFT Hamiltonian. This leads to the function shown in where T E V is the transmission function of the anchor.

A graph of bias voltage v. contact resistance for the above anchors is shown in . Without anchor there is a large contact resistance because of the lack of chemical bond between the CNT and the metal contact. All cases with chemical bonds enhance the contact conductivity dramatically. Moreover the conjugation anchors such as CON and COO lead to the lowest contact resistance. This is because the delocalized frontier molecular orbitals of conjugated anchors provide better coupling to the conduction orbitals of the electrodes 19 . Moreover the bond energetics of C anchors and Pt anchors also contribute to the contact conductivity as long as they have same binding characteristic. Involving both and binding characteristics stronger anchors such as CON including both sigma and binding would provide higher conductivity than weaker anchors such as COO .

Therefore it appears that the COO and CON anchors are the best functional anchors to link carbon nanotubes and Pt metal contact. This strategy with these anchors should be useful for both single wall and multi wall nanotubes and also for similar graphene and graphite applications.

Applicants demonstrated use of the functional molecular anchors for nanostructured fuel cell electrocatalysts according to the experimental approach set forth below.

Since the ohmic contact is one of the major reasons to lose fuel cell efficiency see reference 29 Applicants suspected that part of the problem might be the contact resistance between the CNT and the metal catalysts particles which can be as high as 500 K without post treatment see reference 30 . In addition Applicants were concerned that the Pt nanoparticles might not be sufficiently anchored to the CNT surface allowing them to diffuse and eventually aggregate into large Pt NPs which would have much reduced surface area see reference 31 .

To alleviate such potential problems functional molecular anchors can be used to connect Pt nanoparticles NPs to multi walled carbon nanotubes MWCNTs both mechanically and electrically. Anchors based on such functional groups as SH OH NH COOH SOH CONHwere considered all of which can be attached to MWCNT surfaces. As already mentioned above these functional groups are expected to lose hydrogen atoms as they attach to the metal surface making a strong covalent bond that should provide good electrical contact small contact resistance between the CNT and metal particle while also providing a good mechanical connection preventing aggregation of the nanoparticles .

Therefore Applicants carried out experiments by synthesizing electrocatalysts in which metal nanoparticles were attached to various anchors bonded to MWCNT and tested the electrocatalytic activity using a rotating disk configuration. Four MWCNTs samples with various anchors labeled as 

To further characterize the relative Pt dispersion for various anchors Applicants used cyclic voltammetry CV experiments to determine the active surface areas of Pt supported on these MWCNTs samples as shown in . Using the calculated areas under the desorption peaks of hydrogen from 0.05 to 0.37 V vs. NHE and correcting for double layering charging effects Applicants have found that Pt MWCNT NHwith NHand CON groups have the largest electrochemical surface area 72 m g followed by Pt MWCNT COOH with 67 m g Pt MWCNT purified with 65 m g and 56 m g for Pt MWCNT SH. These results are in agreement with the observations of dispersion of Pt NP on anchored MWNTs.

The specific catalytic activity of the samples for the oxygen reduction reaction ORR was examined by potentiodynamic measurements at 5 mV s using the same electrochemical setup with Osaturating the electrolyte. To compare these systems the curves see were normalized by the electrochemical surface area of Pt obtained from the CV .

indicating that the catalytic activity of ORR increases in the same order. Such differences are clearly identified by the half wave potential measurement 0.636V

Based on the experimental and simulation results similar to the ones conducted in the previous example Applicants demonstrated that the electric catalysts system of MWCNT CON Pt has the best performance among MWCNT anchor Pt which anchors can be CON N COO O SO and S . Especially current MWCNT anchor Pt sample with 1 wt mixture CON and N anchors is already 33 better than MWCNT anchor Pt with 4.5 wt COO anchors considering the cyclic voltammetry curve in . One can expect that 4.5 wt pure CON anchored MWNTs would be four times better than current samples. These findings may provide the direction to further improve the catalytic activity.

The enclosed Annex A which makes part of the description of the present application shows some additional information with particular reference on the fuel cell embodiment of the present application. Section S1 of Annex A describes the computation and theoretical methodologies. Section S2 describes the experimental procedures. Section S3 describes detailed computation results.

In the background section of the present application a problem with metal contacts made of Cu has been addressed. The present disclosure provides embodiments where such problem can be solved by incorporation of the functional linkers or anchors similar to those shown in the previous embodiments. The anchors can bond covalently to the Cu decreasing the contact resistance while increasing the mechanical stability. The following embodiments further illustrate synthetic strategies that might be useful for incorporating the Cu anchor GLC elements into nanoelectronics.

In the next three paragraphs the modeling details of these additional embodiments will be initially discussed.

A Cu anchor graphene configuration is schematically shown in . shows a schematic perspective view of the configuration while shows a simplified model of the concept.

The total resistance of a CNT R is often expressed as R R R scattering where Rrepresents resistance of CNT. see reference 61 For the simple model of R R R where Ris the contact resistance of two layers of graphene with a fixed distance of 3.4 and Ris the contact resistance used by Applicants for each of the different anchors of these embodiments. The scattering term can be ignored since the distance is much smaller than the mean free path of an electron. Additionally Applicants have found that metal graphene models accurately represent metal CNT models for all geometric considerations except for the distance between the CNT and electrodes which is slightly smaller 1.9 2.8 than the graphene case indicating that the larger attractive interaction is due to the incursion of the s hybrid character in the pit orbital caused by the curvature of the CNT.

The model geometries were optimized using the following steps 1 Cu anchor models were optimized to find the most stable binding sites and molecule species of the anchor molecules on a Cu 111 surface. For acetylene carboxyl and amide anchors the CHgroup was attached at the end of the anchor molecules to replace the carbon on the graphene in the following step 3 . 2 Graphene anchor models including the effects of the resonance positions were fully optimized. 3 Cu 111 anchor graphene models for the current voltage I V calculations were fully optimized.

Applicants chose an exemplary 4 4 unit cell 32 carbons per layer of a graphene sheet fixed at 0.98 0.85 nm to have large enough spacing to avoid interactions between anchor molecules. The QM optimized Cu 111 layers with ABC stacking FCC deposited on top of a graphene sheet were used to represent Cu metal layers so that the periodic spacing of Cu metal matched with the graphite surface. The Cu Cu distances of the deposited Cu layers is within 5 of the nearest neighbor distance of the bulk crystal structure. For all optimizations three layers of Cu were used with the second and third layers being held fixed.

The choice of anchors for these embodiments will now be described. In particular Applicants chose simple functional groups such as aryl CH acetylene CC amide CONH and carboxyl COO as anchor candidates to bind between Cu surfaces and CNTs. All anchor candidates have been reported to functionalize CNT side walls in experiments. see references 62 65 A variety of aryl functionalized CNTs can be synthesized by using aryldiazonium salts and the estimated degree is one out of approximately 20 carbons see reference 63 or even up to 9 carbons see reference 64 which can lead to a increase in solubility in organic solvents. The alkylated CNTs are synthesized using lithium and alkyl halides in liquid ammonia which are soluble in common organic solvents. see reference 65 The carboxyl groups can be introduced on the CNTs by sonicating in 3 1 sulfuric nitric acid solvents for three hours at 40 degrees C. and further treatment by ethylenediamine and the coupling agent produces the amido functionalized CNTs. see reference 64 

With reference to the computational aspect of these embodiments Applicants used SEQQUEST see reference 66 a fully self consistent Gaussian based linear combination of atomic orbitals LCAO density functional theory DFT method with double plus polarization DZP basis sets. see reference 67 All calculations were based on the Perdew Burke Ernzerhof PBE generalized gradient approximation GGA with PBE pseudo atomic potentials and spin polarization within 2D periodic boundary conditions. see reference 68 The k point sampling of 4 4 in the Brillouin Zone and the real space grid interval of 53 60 in the x y plane for a grid spacing of 0.30 per point were carefully determined by energetic convergence.

To obtain I V characteristics of each model the density of state DOS was obtained from DFT quantum mechanics while the transmission coefficient was obtained using nonequilibrium Green s function theory with DFT. see reference 69 The transmission function was then used in the Landauer Buttiker formula to calculate the I V characteristics. The total resistance of these systems was then obtained from the zero bias transmission.

For the modeling of the Cu benzene anchor Applicants optimized the geometries of benzene CH on top of Cu atom atop face centered cubic fcc hexagonal close packed hcp and bridge site to find the most stable binding site on the Cu 111 surface as shown in . When bonding the benzene to the Cu 111 surface one hydrogen atom is removed from benzene forming a phenyl. Applicants calculated snap bond energies and difference in the energies relative energies in which the lowest energy is defined as 0 kcal mol as shown in the table of . The most stable binding site on Cu 111 for CH is found to be at the bridge site with a bond energy of 46.9 kcal mol which is slightly more favorable than the hcp site by 0.4 kcal mol the fcc site by 1.6 kcal mol and the atop site by 1.7 kcal mol. The perpendicular separation between the Cu 111 surface and anchor is 1.81 at the bridge site which is the smallest of all the anchors.

In a similar manner to the benzene modeling the acetylene anchor with optimized geometries for propyne CH CCH on atop fcc hcp and bridge sites were used to find the most stable binding site on Cu 111 by removing one hydrogen atom bonded to the acetylene as shown in . The methyl bounded at the end of the acetyl to replace the carbon on the graphene is used to clarify the bond directions. Applicants again calculated snap bond energies and delta energies in which the highest energy is defined as 0 kcal mol as shown in the table of . The most stable binding site on Cu 111 for propyne is found to be at the fcc site with a bond energy of 103.5 kcal mol which is slightly more favorable than the hcp site by 0.7 kcal mol and is much more stable than the atop site by 14.7 kcal mol indicating that the three fold sites provide a preferable overlap of the orbitals between Cu on Cu 111 surface and carbon on propyne. The perpendicular separation between Cu 111 surface and the anchor is 1.37 at the fcc site which is the smallest distance for all the anchors.

For the amide anchor CH CONHon top of Cu 111 surface with and without hydrogen atoms were optimized to choose the most stable molecule which bonds to the Cu 111 surface as shown in . The snap bond energies and delta energies were calculated as shown in the table of . One hydrogen atom is placed on the Cu surface for the CH CONH model and two hydrogen atoms are placed on the Cu surface for the CH CON to enable comparison of the total energies of all the models. Applicants found that CH CONH bonds to the Cu 111 surface with the snap bond energy of 122.2 kcal mol which is more energetically favorable than CH CONHand CH CONH. In the CH CONH model the O atom is on the top of the Cu atom the N atom is in the bridge position between two Cu atoms and the perpendicular separation between Cu 111 surface and anchor is 1.58 .

For the carboxyl anchor CH COOH on top of Cu 111 surface with and without a hydrogen atom were optimized to choose the most stable molecule which bonds to the Cu 111 surface as shown in . One hydrogen atom was added to the surface of Cu 111 for the CH COO model to compensate for the missing hydrogen atom and enable a comparison of the total energy with CH COOH by calculation of the snap bond energies and delta energies as shown in the table of . Applicants found that the CH COOH molecule does not bond to the Cu 111 surface due to the stability of the molecule itself which also confirms that the calculations are being carried out reasonably. On the contrary CH COO bonded to the Cu 111 surface with a snap bond energy of 70.3 kcal mol with one O atom on the top of the Cu atom and the other O atom in the bridge position between two Cu atoms with a perpendicular separation between Cu 111 surface and anchor of 1.75 .

Previous theoretical studies reported that chemically bonding of an anchor to the side wall of a CNT creates a half filled band near the Fermi energy because of an unpaired spin of a p orbital of a carbon carbon bond. see references 70 71 Since I V characteristics at the interface are a critical issue and the unrealistic half filled band near the Fermi energy can cause overestimation of the conductance Applicants carefully studied the anchors with or without unpaired spin to determine which are energetically favorable on the unit cell of graphene sheet when including the resonance effects. To examine this issue the energetic in adiabatic and snap bond energy between resonance and non resonance positions were calculated by bonding two ethylene molecules CH on the graphene sheet and removing one hydrogen atom. The graphene unit cell consists of 32 carbon atoms with a fixed area of 0.98 0.85 nm. When placing one ethylene on the graphene unit cell shown in circle in the middle of there are nine resonance positions a b and c and nine non resonance positions d e and f . Each alphabet notation represents the equivalent positions in the resonance or non resonance positions. For example when the second ethylene is bonded on a2 site as shown in which is equivalent to positions a1 and a3 the two ethylene molecules are in resonance positions. Second ethylene positions which are smaller than 2.8 from the first ethylene position are not considered in order to avoid the large steric interactions between molecules.

To summarize the computation results the adiabatic and snap bond energies measured by adding one ethylene and two ethylene molecules are shown in the chart of and the table of . According to the adiabatic bond energy of the second addition of the ethylene molecule at resonance positions is larger than those of the first ethylene molecule by 13.0 kcal mol but that of non resonance positions is smaller than the first ethylene molecule by 4.4 kcal mol. Additionally the adiabatic bond energy at the resonance positions is more stable by 17.4 kcal mol than those at the non resonance positions on average. Applicants used the adiabatic bond energetic to exclude the significant effect of the strain energetic in the graphene sheet. It is clear that the addition of the second anchors in the resonance position stabilize the total anchor graphene models. Thus a hydrogen atom is added in the resonance position on a graphene unit cell for all anchor calculations to avoid creating an unrealistic half filled band or a lowest unoccupied molecular orbital LUMO which affects the quantum mechanical current voltage I V calculations.

By taking into account the resonance effect which is described above the graphene anchor models were optimized by removing one hydrogen atom from each anchor and placing it on the resonance position a3 of the graphene unit cell shown in . For all anchors atop sites were found to be favorable. The snap bond energetic between the anchor and graphene and the graphene strain energetic which is due to the deformation of the graphene sheet by bonding both the anchor and H atom are shown in the table of . The largest snap bond energy is for acetylene with 82.6 kcal mol followed by benzene 58.9 kcal mol carboxyl 50.5 kcal mol and amid 42.0 kcal mol . The acetylene anchor showed a significantly smaller snap bond energy than the benzene and the graphene strain energy in the acetylene model is slightly larger than the other models. These results also support the strong interaction at the acetylene graphene interface.

Optimization of Cu 111 anchor graphene models and construction of I V models will now be discussed. In particular Applicants fully optimized the geometries of the Cu 111 anchor graphene models obtained from the above paragraphs. The total snap bond energy is the largest for acetylene anchor 168.9 kcal mol of all four anchors followed by carboxyl 123.9 kcal mol amide 117.8 kcal mol and benzene 106.1 kcal mol as shown in the table of . The perpendicular separations between Cu 111 surface and graphene is significantly larger for benzene 7.03 due to its configuration while the rest of the separations have similar values. Looking at the results in more detail the benzene Cu 111 surface is 1.97 which is 0.64 larger than the acetylene Cu surface separation and the benzene graphene separation of 1.58 is 0.10 larger than the acetylene Cu surface separation. The amide graphene separation 1.62 is similar to the carboxyl graphene separation 1.64 although the amide Cu surface separation 1.88 is smaller than the carboxyl Cu surface separation by 0.15 .

To enable a direct comparison of the contact resistance at the interface between each anchor model and graphene the I V models were constructed from the optimized geometries by reversing one of the models and placing it at the AB stacking positions of the original graphene sheet as shown in . The three Cu 111 layers represent the two electrodes source and drain of a CNT or SGS. The Cu contacts without anchor was calculated as discussed in see reference 50 see . The distance between the two graphene sheets was fixed at 3.4 which is specified by the experimental data. see reference 72 .

The contact resistance of the Cu 111 anchor graphene models will now be discussed. For all anchor models the DOS of carbon are larger than the no anchor model indicating improved conduction channels at the interface. The transmission coefficients near the Fermi energy and the strength of the amide carboxyl acetylene no anchor and benzene models are listed in descending order. Benzene shows a very small transmission coefficient which indicates that there is no available orbital for current flow between the electrodes.

In turn the I V characteristics the conductance and total resistance per unit area correlate directly with the transmission coefficient. Applicants calculated contact resistances of 43 k for carboxyl anchor 58 k for amide anchor 128 k for acetylene anchor 10.3 M for benzene anchor and 11.7 M for Cu without anchor after averaging for a bias voltage from 0.1 V to 0.1 V see table of where the bias voltage is defined as the difference between the source and the drain voltage. These values should be interpreted as a relative evaluation of these models.

The interaction energies of various anchors table of indicate that all anchors are good candidates for enhancing the mechanical stabilities of the Cu nanotube interface as compared to that of the Cu without anchor which has an interaction energy of 4.8 kcal mol with a separation of 3.30 . The acetylene anchor obtains the largest mechanical stability of all others because of the strong cohesive energy that is also represented by the short separations to Cu 111 surface and graphene. The snap bond energy of benzene anchor is smaller than the acetylene anchor by 62.8 kcal mol and the separation between anchor Cu 111 and anchor graphene are larger by 1.48 times and 1.07 times respectively which is possibly due to the steric interactions between the benzene and the surfaces. The snap bond energies of amide and carboxyl anchors are relatively smaller than that of the acetylene anchor since the anchor ions are stabilized by resonance effects. Applicants also found that the second anchor bonds to the resonance position on the SGS to gain stability which is also true for CNT surface.

By applying the carboxyl anchor the contact resistance can be reduced by approximately by a factor of 270 when compared to the Cu electrodes without anchors. The contact resistance of the Pd graphene no anchor can be calculated as 159 k . Thus the carboxyl amid and acetylene anchors can improve the contact resistance better then the Pd electrodes.

Interestingly the contact resistance for the benzene anchor is essentially the same as without the anchor. This is because the benzene leads to a total tunneling distance of 7.03 which is approximately 50 larger than the other three cases. The experimentally reported anchors applied in self aligning assemblies such as sodiumdodecylsulphate SDS see reference 52 and long chained aryldiazonium salts see reference 53 which possess long alkyl chains Cand Crespectively leading the large separations are likely to dramatically increase the contact resistance.

In accordance with the embodiments above using quantum mechanical methods shows that appropriate anchors can dramatically reduce the contact resistance of Cu CNT and Cu SGS interfaces while increasing mechanical stability. Of the four anchors Applicants considered the best Cu interface is carboxyl 275 times lower than perfect Cu SGS interface followed by amide acetylene and benzene in descending order. Introducing the carboxyl anchor at the Cu SGS interface can improve the contact resistance by 3.7 times compared to the Pd SGS interface without an anchor making the Cu electrodes a good candidate for the CNT or SGS electronics.

The anchors should be selected to reduce contact resistance as demonstrated in the present writing in the detailed calculations for the above discussed four functional groups. They provide useful guidelines for selecting molecular anchors for carbon black and other graphite materials in addition to CNT and SGS.

SWNTs 10 mg and 4 substituted aniline 4 equiv mol of carbon were added to a flask with reflux condenser. Under the protection of N2 atmosphere isoamyl nitrite 5 equiv mol of carbon was added via syringe with caution. Then the flask was heated to 60 degrees with vigorous stirring for 1.5 h of reaction time. After the flask was cooled down to room temperature the commencing paste was diluted with DMF filtered through a Nylon 0.2 um membrane and washed with copious DMF. The collected filtered paper was then dispersed in DMF by sonication. The resulting solution was filtered and washed again with DMF and ether to remove DMF . Then the filtration cakes were dried in a vacuum oven overnight and characterized.

In the experiment outlined above 4 Aminobenzamide and 4 Aminobenzoic acid were chosen as the functionalization groups.

TGA results showed that functionalization were successful the loading of the functional groups were estimated around 10 as illustrated in .

Raman results showed that after functionalization the disorder 1290 cm modes were greatly enhanced which indicated that the SWNT were successfully covalent functionalized as illustrated in .

Then 10 wt. Pt were deposited on as prepared SWNT by EG method and characterized by electrochemical methods.

Measurements of contact resistance for nanoscale contacts are difficult. Problems include assessing the actual magnitude of the contact area between the nanotube and the metal the quality of the connection of macroscopic leads to the nanoscale contacts additional contact resistance due to these contacts stray electrical pathways in the nanoscale system that might carry part of the current and contaminants at the interface between the metal electrode and the CNT. For these reason there have been very few attempts reported to measure the specific contact resistance atom at the metal nanotube or metal graphene interfaces.

The only reliable experimental data for the magnitude of the specific contact resistance for metal graphene or metal nanotube interfaces of which Applicants are aware is the recent report by Kanbara et al. reference 74 for the case of the Pt CNT side contacted interface. Reference 74 reported four terminal experiments for a Pt electrode that was 5 nm thick and approximately 500 nm wide along the CNT deposited on the side of the CNT and protected with 60 nm of Au. This side contacted metallic SWNT was reported to have a diameter in the range of 1.0 1.5 nm. They found a contact resistance of R 5 k for a system with a length between contacts of approximately 1 m 500 nm 2 contacts . reference 74 To analyze these experimental results to obtain the specific contact resistance Applicants assume that the single walled carbon nanotube SWNT was the 10 10 type most commonly produced for such experiments. This has a diameter of 1.37 nm. Given the length of the contact along the SWNT of 1 m 1 000 nm and assuming that 50 of the carbon atoms around the circumference of the SWNT are in contact with electrodes Applicants estimate that the contact has N 40 2.47 periodic unit length m 1 000 nm 0.5 50 8 097 carbon atoms in contact with the Pt. Thus Applicants estimate that the experimental specific contact resistance per carbon atom is Rc R N 5 000 8 096 40.5 M .

This experimental value of 40.5 M can be compared with Applicants previously reported calculations reference 75 for Pt side contacted to graphene which led to a specific contact resistance of Rc 35.7 M per carbon atom. Given all uncertainties in the experiment this is excellent agreement. This validates that the QM theory can be used to predict accurate contact resistances enabling in silico design of improve systems such as the functional anchors described here.

In particular the examples set forth above are provided to give those of ordinary skill in the art a complete disclosure and description of how to make and use the embodiments of the structures devices systems and methods of the disclosure and are not intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as their disclosure. Modifications of the above described modes for carrying out the disclosure that are obvious to persons of skill in the art are intended to be within the scope of the following claims. All patents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels of skill of those skilled in the art to which the disclosure pertains. All references cited in this disclosure are incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference had been incorporated by reference in its entirety individually. Appendix A herein enclosed and any of the reference further cited therein is also incorporated by reference in its entirety to the same extent as if appendix A and each reference cited therein had been incorporated by reference in its entirety individually.

It is to be understood that the disclosures are not limited to particular compositions or systems which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. The term plurality includes two or more referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the disclosure pertains.

Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice for testing of the specific examples of appropriate materials and methods are described herein.

A number of embodiments of the disclosure have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

Applicants used CASTEP to calculate the binding energy between graphene and Pt surface connected by various anchors. A periodic slab that includes three layers of platinum totalizing 12 atoms was used to describe Pt 111 surface. The unit cell c parameter was set to be 18 at z direction for keeping 50 of the unit cell as vacuum in order to avoid any interaction between slabs. The calculations were performed by using nonlocal density functional theory DFT with the generalized gradient approximation GGA II and periodic boundary conditions. Perdew J. P. and Y. Wang Phys. Rev. B 1992 46 6671. We used the ultrasoft plane wave pseudopotentials generated with the optimization scheme of Lin et al. Lin J. S. Qteish A. Payne M. C. and Heine V. Phys. Rev. B 1993 47 4174 Applicants found a cutoff of 380 eV and a k point sampling of 2 2 1 were sufficient for convergence. All energies were extrapolated to 0 K using the correction technique of Gillan and De Vita De Vita A. and Gillan M. J. J. Phys. Condens. Matter 1991. 3 6225 . All calculations were performed with the CASTEP code in the CERIUS2 software package. CASTEP module Accelrys Inc Cerius2 Modeling Environment Release 4.0 Accelrys Inc. San Diego 1999. 

The Green function of the molecule in equation 2 G is calculated from the molecular Hamiltonian H V i.e. 

The submatrices G and g represent Green functions when interactions among subsystems are included or excluded respectively. grepresents the electrodes and describe the metal molecule coupling. Hand Sare the Fock and Overlap matrices of the isolated molecule respectively and E is the electron energy. Therefore solving eq 3 for G we obtain 4 where and 5 where are the self energy terms coupling between the molecule and the electrodes.

All the needed parameters can be obtained from the Fock and Overlap matrices based on DFT calculations.

The metal molecule coupling term can be determined by and 7 Hare the coupling matrix element between electrode and molecules.

The coupling appearing in eq. 2 is given by and 8 gare the surface green function of the electrode. For Au we approximate this as a diagonal matrix with each element proportional to their local density of states.

Surface modified MWCNTs have different anchor groups on the surface. Table S2 lists anchor energy between the anchor and CNTs.

Pt based catalysts were prepared by the EG method. 140 mg of different MWCNTs was suspended in 20 mL of ethylene glycol solution and stirred with ultrasonic treatment for 20 min. 30 ml of hexachloroplatinic acid EG solution 2.0 mg Pt mL EG was added to the solution drop wise also under mechanically stirred conditions for 4 h. NaOH 2.5 M in EG solution was added to adjust the pH of the solution to above 13 and then the solution was heated at 140 C. for 3 h to ensure that Pt was completely reduced the entire EG solution has a DI water content of 5 vol . Refluxing conditions were used to keep water in the synthesis system. The whole preparation process was also conducted under flowing argon. The solid was filtered and washed with 1.5 L of DDI water and then dried at 70 C. for 8 h. The Pt MWCNT catalysts with a metal loading of 30 wt were obtained.

The active layers of the as prepared catalysts Pt MWCNT SH Pt MWCNT purified Pt MWCNT COOH and Pt MWCNT NH on the RDE were prepared using a method briefly explained here. A mixture containing 8 mg of Pt MWCNT powder and 2 ml of ethanol was ultrasonically blended in a glass vial for 2 3 hours. A volume of 10 l of this ink was spread on the surface of a vitreous carbon RDE 0.196 cm using a microsyringe and dried in an air oven at 80 C. for about 10 min to obtain a thin active layer. After drying to bind catalyst powders on RDE surface about 10 l of 0.1 Nafion solution was added by using the syringe to make sure that surface is flat. At last DI water was added on the catalyst surface to check if air bubble occurs. We must make sure that no bubble will form on the surface. To confirm the reproducibility of the results three electrodes were prepared and tested for each catalyst.

RDEs were used to record cyclic voltammograms in oxygen or argon saturated liquid electrolytes. Argon saturated electrolytes were used to obtain the electrochemical active area of the Pt particles. The liquid electrolyte was HSO 0.5 M . A Ag AgCl was used as reference electrodes. The cyclic voltammograms obtained on the stationary RDEs in Ar saturated solutions at the san rate of 50 mV s. The polarization curves for oxygen reduction kinetics on the as prepared catalysts obtained on the rotating 3000 rpm RDE in oxygen saturated solutions at the scan rate of 5 mV s.

