---

title: Email system automatically notifying sender status and routing information during delivery
abstract: An electronic communication such as an email may have multiple file wrappers of metadata added to it by a sender. Each time the email passes to a mail server during its transmission from the sender to a recipient, one of the file wrappers may be stripped off by the mail server and sent to the sender. The information sent back to the sender with the file wrapper may comprise the server name and Internet protocol (IP) address of the computing device the mail server received the email from and the name of the mail server itself, along with a timestamp. In this manner, the sender may be apprised of the location of the email at all times during its transmission, and may be apprised of the route it took during its transmission.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07984100&OS=07984100&RS=07984100
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 07984100
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080416
---
This application is related by subject matter to that disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications the entirety of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 104 030 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 104 304 each filed on Apr. 16 2008 and each entitled In Network Status Of Electronic Communication. 

Electronic mail or email is a store and forward method of composing sending storing and receiving messages over electronic communication systems. Email tracking is directed to techniques for monitoring email delivery to an intended recipient. Email traditionally provides no mechanism for tracking a sent message. The system s involved will generally make an effort to either deliver mail or return a failure notice bounce message but there is no guarantee that a message will actually be delivered let alone read by the recipient. This is in contrast to the postal mail system which offers registered mail or other forms of tracking and tracing.

Most email tracking technologies use some form of digitally time stamped record to reveal the exact time and date that an email was opened along with the Internet protocol IP address of the recipient.

A web bug or web beacon is an object that is embedded in an email and is usually invisible to the recipient but allows checking that a recipient has viewed the email and thus provides a form of email tracking. When the recipient reads the email the email client requests the image letting the sender know that the email address is valid and that the email was viewed. However tracking via web bugs can be prevented by using email clients that do not download images whose uniform resource locators URLs are embedded in hypertext markup language HTML emails. Many graphical email clients can be configured to avoid accessing remote images. Many modern email readers and email services will not load images when opening an HTML email from an unknown sender or that is suspected to be spam mail. The user must explicitly choose to load images. Web bugs can also be filtered out at the server level so that they never reach the recipient. As a result of these measures web bugs have lost their effectiveness and cannot be relied on for email tracking. It is thus difficult to confirm electronic delivery or verification of an electronic communication such as an email with high reliability.

An electronic communication such as an email may have multiple file wrappers of metadata added to it by a sender. Each time the email passes to a mail server during its transmission from the sender to a recipient one of the file wrappers may be stripped off by the mail server and sent to the sender. The information sent back to the sender with the file wrapper may comprise the server name and Internet protocol IP address of the computing device the mail server received the email from and the name of the mail server itself along with a timestamp. The sender may use this information to determine the location of the email at all times during its transmission and be apprised of the route it took during its transmission.

In an implementation a route that the email is likely to take during its transmission from a sender to a recipient may be determined. The route may comprise the number and or addresses of mail servers that are likely or estimated to transfer the email during its transmission. A number of file wrappers may be added to the email based on the estimate.

In an implementation a sender may specify the route that an email is to take during its transmission from the sender to a recipient. A number of file wrappers may be added to the email based on the specified number of mail servers.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The sender may create an email using the sender mail client and may send the email to a recipient e.g. by typing in an email address of the recipient and clicking send. The sender mail client may comprise an application the sender uses to compose and read email such as Microsoft Outlook etc. The sender mail client may also comprise a mail delivery agent MDA to which the email may be transferred. The MDA accepts the email then routes it to local mailboxes or forwards the email to the sender mail server if it is not locally addressed. If the email is not locally addressed the sender mail client formats the message in Internet email format and uses the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP to send the message to the sender mail server e.g. provided by the sender s Internet Service Provider ISP . SMTP is the de facto standard for email transmissions across the Internet and specifies the protocol by which email is transmitted. SMTP is a text based protocol in which one or more recipients of a message are specified along with the message text and possibly other encoded objects.

The sender mail server receives the email and forwards it through a network . The sender mail server may comprise a computer program or software agent that transfers electronic mail messages from one computer to another.

The network such as the Internet may comprise mail servers . Although only three mail servers are shown any number of mail servers may be comprised within the network . Additionally or alternatively the network may comprise any number of devices and services such as domain name system DNS servers and routers for example. These devices and services may slow when processing an unusually heavy load may temporarily be unable to receive an email when taken down for maintenance and sometimes may not have identified themselves properly to the Internet through the DNS so that other mail servers in the network are unable to deliver email as addressed. These devices and services as well as the components on the recipient side described below may be protected by firewalls spam filters and malware detection software that may bounce or even delete an email. A spam filter is shown between the network and the recipient side of the system . It is contemplated that a whitelist may be used so that an email may bypass the firewalls spam filters and malware detection software. A whitelist is a list of trusted Internet protocol IP addresses and domains that allows all mail from these addresses to be delivered. The sender might be whitelisted with ISPs to reduce blocking of electronic delivery to the recipient s email box.

It is contemplated that the network may comprise any type of private or public communication network such as for example an intranet Internet local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless fidelity WiFi network cellular connection plain old telephone service POTS and the like.

In the network the email is routed along a host to host chain of mail servers e.g. mail servers . When transferring an email a sending mail server handles all aspects of mail delivery until the message has been either accepted or rejected by a receiving mail server. Each mail server in the network requests directions from the DNS in order to identify the next mail server in the delivery chain. Parts or all of the path may be specified deliberately routing a message through a series of mail servers.

To find the recipient s IP address and mailbox a mail server drills down through the DNS which consists of a set of servers distributed across the Internet beginning with the root nameservers at the top level domain .tld then domain nameservers that handle requests for domains within that .tld and eventually to nameservers that know about the local domain.

For example the mail server asks the appropriate DNS server which mail exchange MX servers have knowledge of the subdomain or local host in the email address. The DNS server responds with an MX record comprising a prioritized list of MX servers for this domain. An MX server is a mail server performing a particular function. To the DNS server the server that accepts messages is an MX server. When it is transferring messages it is a mail server. The mail server contacts the MX servers on the MX record in order of priority until it finds the designated host for that address domain. The sending mail server asks if the host accepts messages for the recipient s username at that domain i.e. username domain.tld and transfers the message.

The term mail server is also used to mean a computer acting as an MTA that is running the appropriate software. The term mail exchanger MX in the context of the DNS formally refers to an IP address assigned to a device hosting a mail server and by extension also indicates the server itself.

As shown in a recipient has an associated computing device on which the email may be received and displayed to the recipient . A recipient mail server and a recipient mail client are also shown. After the email is routed through the network and past the spam filter it is accepted for delivery by the recipient mail server . The recipient mail server calls a local MDA to deliver the mail to the correct mailbox where it will sit until it is retrieved by the recipient mail client . The recipient may then view the email on the associated computing device . For example the recipient presses the get mail button in his MUA which picks up the message using the Post Office Protocol POP3 . This sequence of events applies to the majority of email users. However there are many alternative possibilities to the email system.

Although only one sender and one recipient are shown in it is contemplated that any number of senders and recipients may be included within the system . The user computing device may be a laptop or notebook computer a handheld computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a mobile phone or any type of personal computer PC for example. An example computing device is described with respect to .

Additional networks such as one or more company networks may also be included within the system . For example a company network might reside between the sender mail client and the sender mail server and another company network might reside between the recipient mail server and the recipient mail client . For example email service providers and other companies that process a large volume of email often have their own private networks. These organizations commonly have multiple mail servers and route all email through a central gateway server i.e. mail hub that redistributes mail to whichever mail server is available. Email on these secondary mail servers must usually wait for the primary mail server i.e. the designated host for that domain to become available at which time the secondary mail server will transfer its messages to the primary mail server.

Email has a particular format as specified by Request for Comments RFC 2822 for example. Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions MIME supplements the email formatting rules to allow non English text in both email headers and bodies and defines a mechanism for including non textual attachments in email bodies.

Email messages generally comprise a header and a body. The header of an email may contain fields such as summary sender receiver and other information about the email. The header may contain an envelope header which may have information that may be hidden from the sender and or recipient and a message header which is usually visible. The body of an email may contain the message itself as unstructured text. The header may be separated from the body by a blank line. Each header field has a name and a value. RFC 2822 specifies the precise syntax. Note that the To field in the header is not necessarily related to the addresses to which the message is delivered. The actual delivery list is supplied in the SMTP protocol not extracted from the header content. An email wrapper carries metadata. As described further herein a mail server can parse a file wrapper of metadata that instructs the mail server to send a message back to the sender.

As an email passes through the delivery chain from sender to recipient the mail servers add timestamps message identifiers and mail server location information to the email such as in the envelope header s received field. The envelope header may also contain a return path field. The return path contains the address of the email sender.

The email may have multiple file wrappers of metadata added to it at the sender computing device . Any number of file wrappers may be provided to the email . The file wrappers may contain information directed to or responsive to a server name and IP address of a computing device a mail server received the email from and the name of the mail server itself along with a timestamp along with any additional information that the sender chooses to include. In an implementation the file wrappers may be encrypted using any known encryption technique s .

Each time the email passes to a mail server during its transmission from the sender to the recipient one of the file wrappers e.g. the outermost file wrapper may be stripped off by the mail server and sent to the sender e.g. using the address in the return path field of the envelope header. The information sent back to the sender with the file wrapper may comprise the server name and IP address of the computing device the mail server received the email from and the name of the mail server itself along with a timestamp. It is contemplated that any information may be contained within a file wrapper. When the email reaches the recipient mail client another file wrapper may be stripped off and sent back to the sender .

In this manner the sender may be apprised of the location of the email at all times during its transmission and may be apprised of the route the email took during its transmission. This may help the sender ensure the email was not compromised during transmission and ensure that the email was properly delivered to the recipient mail client and or the recipient .

The number of file wrappers may be set to a very large number so that there will be enough file wrappers regardless of how many mail servers the email passes through during transmission from the sender to the recipient . Alternatively the sender may estimate the number of mail servers the email will be sent through and set the number of file wrappers to that number or that number plus one to account for a file wrapper being stripped off the email when the email reaches the recipient mail client . The estimate may take place using a variety of techniques described further herein.

File wrappers may be added to the email at operation . File wrappers may be added by a sender mail client or other component or application residing on or associated with the sender or sender computing device. A number of file wrappers is added to the email that is equal to or greater than the number of mail servers that the email is likely to be passed through during transmission from the sender to the recipient. In an implementation the number of file wrappers added is set to a large number e.g. 100 255 etc. that is likely much greater than the number of mail servers that the email is likely to be passed through during transmission. In another implementation the number of file wrappers is based on an estimate or determination of the number of mail servers that the email is likely to be transmitted through. In this manner a more precise number of file wrappers is added.

At operation the email may be sent. The email may be sent by a user who generated the email or by another user or entity such as a common carrier. At each point e.g. mail server during the transmission of the email from the sender to the recipient a file wrapper is removed decrypted if optional encryption is used and transmitted back to the sender as a notification at operation . In an implementation the message itself as well as the file wrappers could be encrypted individually wherein the unwrapping of one file wrapper decrypts the next file wrapper.

At operation the email is transmitted to the recipient s mailbox. At this point at operation a file wrapper may be stripped off the email and transmitted to the sender as a notification. This provides the sender with a record in real time as the email is being transmitted of where and when the email or other electronic communication is at all points during transmission. The notifications may be stored by the sender and may be used as evidence to certify where and when the email or other electronic communication was at all points during transmission.

In an implementation when the recipient opens or downloads the email a notification may be sent to the sender at operation . The email may contain a mechanism that notifies the sender when it has been delivered viewed in a preview pane and or opened. Mechanisms might include a web beacon a web bug or a read receipt which are all known and their descriptions are omitted for brevity. In an implementation the username of the logged in user could be recorded by the software object and transmitted back to the sender.

At operation a route that the email is likely to take during its transmission from the sender to the recipient may be determined. The route may comprise the number and or addresses of mail servers that are likely or estimated to transfer the email during its transmission. One or more tracing techniques may be used in the determination of the mail servers. In an implementation the tracing techniques may be based on or similar to the well known trace route and or what route commands services applications and processes that are available.

At operation a number of file wrappers may be added based on the estimated number of mail servers. In an implementation the number of file wrappers may be set equal to the number of mail servers the number of mail servers plus one to account for the recipient mail server or the number of mail servers plus two to account for the recipient mail server and the recipient s mailbox .

Operations through may be similar to operations through described with respect to the method of . At operation the email may be sent and at each point during the transmission of the email from the sender to the recipient a file wrapper is removed decrypted if optional encryption is used and transmitted back to the sender as a notification at operation . At operation the email is transmitted to the recipient s mailbox and another file wrapper may be stripped off the email and transmitted to the sender as a notification at operation . The notifications may be stored by the sender.

At operation the sender may compare a record of the received file wrapper notifications from the mail servers or other devices or services involved in the email transmission with the route that was determined at operation prior to the email transmission. The sender may confirm that the email took the estimated route during and or after transmission of the email from the sender to the recipient. In this manner the sender may have additional evidence to verify and certify where and when the email or other electronic communication was at all points during transmission.

Before or after the email is generated a sender may specify at operation the route that the email is to take during its transmission from the sender to the recipient. The route may comprise the names and or addresses of mail servers that are to be involved in the transfer of the email during its transmission. At operation a number of file wrappers is added based on the specified number of mail servers from operation . The number of file wrappers may be set equal to the number of mail servers the number of mail servers plus one to account for the recipient mail server or the number of mail servers plus two to account for the recipient mail server and the recipient s mailbox .

The email may then be sent to the recipient at operations through as described above. At operation the sender may compare a record of the received file wrapper notifications from the mail servers or other devices or services involved in the email transmission with the route that was specified at operation prior to the email transmission. The sender may confirm that the email took the specified route during and or after transmission of the email from the sender to the recipient. In this manner the sender may have additional evidence to verify and certify where and when the email or other electronic communication was at all points during transmission.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

