---

title: Composition, synthesis, and use of a new class of fluorophores
abstract: A new class of fluorophores is presented. The fluorophores include a conjugated ring system, such as a dithiolone, a pyran, and a pyrazine containing ring system. The structure is designed with the flexibility to have multiple substitution patterns. The fluorophores may be used in applications including, but not limited to, biomarker applications, pH sensors, metal sensors, and as components for molecular electronics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07888506&OS=07888506&RS=07888506
owner: Duquesne University of the Holy Spirit
number: 07888506
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080125
---
This application claims the priority benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 897 576 filed Jan. 26 2007 the disclosure of the entirety of which is incorporated by this reference.

Portions of this invention was made with Government support under grant GM061555 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to a new class of fluorescent compounds and their synthesis. Various uses of these new fluorophores are also disclosed.

Fluorescent molecules are of great interest because of their potential uses for example but not limited to in labeling and detection of substrates or molecules in cell based assays as components in organic electronic materials in molecular electronics as pH sensors and as metal sensors. There are currently several general classes of fluorescent molecules. These have been divided based on their structural motifs. For example some common fluorescent structures include xanthene based fluorescein and rhodamine compounds coumarins pyrenes and molecules based on the cyanine dyes. Other common fluorophores include for example auramine acridine orange dipyrrin and porphyrin. The basic structures of these common fluorophores are presented in .

Molecular fluorescence is a type of photoilluminescence which is a chemical phenomenon involving the emission of light from a molecule that has been promoted to an excited state by absorption of electromagnetic radiation. Specifically fluorescence is a luminescence in which the molecular absorption of a photon triggers the emission of a second photon with a longer wavelength lower energy than the absorbed photon. The energy difference between the absorbed photon and the emitted photon results from an internal energy transition of the molecule where the initial excited state resulting from the energy of the absorbed photon transitions to a second lower energy excited state typically accompanied by dissipation of the energy difference in the form of heat and or molecular vibration. As the molecule decays from the second excited state to the ground state a photon of light is emitted from the compound. The emitted photon has an energy equal to the energy difference between the second excited state and the ground state.

Many fluorescent compounds absorb photons having a wavelength in the ultraviolet portion of the electromagnetic spectrum and emit light having a wavelength in the visible portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. However the absorption characteristics of a fluorophore are dependent on the molecules absorbance curve and Stokes shift difference in wavelength between the absorbed and emitted photon and fluorophores may absorb in different portions of the electromagnetic spectrum.

The basic structures of the known fluorophores may be modified to provide different excitation and emission profiles. For example two related compounds fluorescein and rhodamine have different fluorescent characteristics. Fluorescein absorbs electromagnetic radiation having a wavelength of 494 nanometers nm and emits light having a wavelength at 525 nm in the green region of the visible spectrum whereas rhodamine B absorbs in radiation having a wavelength of 510 nm and emits light with an emission maximum of 570 nm in the yellow green region of the visible spectrum. Other fluorophores have different absorption and emission profiles. For example coumarin 1 absorbs radiation at 360 nm and emits light at 460 nm blue light and pyrene absorbs radiation at 317 nm and emits light having a wavelength of 400 nm violet light .

Despite their versatility the known fluorophores have a number of disadvantages. For example the absorption spectra of the fluoroscein class of fluorophores are generally pH sensitive such that fluorescent yield decreases rapidly at pH levels below 8. Rhodamine and pyrene based fluorescent dyes are hydrophilic and hydrophobic respectively.

Various embodiments provide for fluorescent compounds. Other embodiments relate to uses of the fluorescent compounds.

Other embodiments relate to a method of marking a substrate such as a biomolecule comprising reacting a compound having a formula as described herein with a substrate.

Still other embodiments provide for a method of detecting a metal ion comprising forming a complex between a metal ion and a fluorophore having a formula as described herein and measuring an fluorescence emission spectrum of the complex.

Further embodiments provide for a method of measuring a pH of a solution comprising measuring an fluorescence emission spectrum of a solution containing a fluorophore having a formula as described herein.

Still further embodiments provide for an electronic device comprising a compound having a formula as described herein.

The present disclosure relates to a new class of fluorophores that may be synthesized from readily available materials. The structure of the fluorophore is designed with the flexibility to have multiple substitution patterns. Various uses of the fluorophores including for example as molecular markers pH sensors organic electric materials in molecular electronics and metal binders sensors are also disclosed.

Other than the operating examples or where otherwise indicated all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients processing conditions and the like used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about . Accordingly unless indicated to the contrary the numerical parameters set forth in the following specification and attached claims are approximations that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of reported significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques.

Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of the disclosure are approximations the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical values however may contain certain errors such as for example equipment and or operator error necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing measurements.

Also it should be understood that any numerical range recited herein is intended to include all sub ranges subsumed therein. For example a range of 1 to 10 is intended to include all sub ranges between and including the recited minimum value of 1 and the recited maximum value of 10 that is having a minimum value equal to or greater than 1 and a maximum value of less than or equal to 10.

Any patent publication or other disclosure material in whole or in part that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent that the incorporated material does not conflict with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such and to the extent necessary the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any material or portion thereof that is said to be incorporated by reference herein but which conflicts with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.

The present disclosure describes several different features and aspects of the invention with reference to various exemplary non limiting embodiments. It is understood however that the invention embraces numerous alternative embodiments which may be accomplished by combining any of the different features aspects and embodiments described herein in any combination that one of ordinary skill in the art would find useful.

The present disclosure relates to the development of a new class of fluorophores having a structure comprising at least three fused rings including a five membered ring containing an ene dithiolate moiety a six membered pyran ring and a six membered pyrazine ring. The general structure of the new class of fluorophores is represented by formula I.

In formula I X represents a group such as 0 i.e. a carbonyl a dithiolone S i.e. a thiocarbonyl Se i.e. a selenocarbonyl NR i.e. an imine NR an iminium ion or NNHR a hydrazine . Each Rmay independently be a group such as hydrogen the group L R C Calkyl phenyl and substituted phenyl. The substituted phenyl may have from 1 to 5 substituents where each substituent may independently be one or more of the group L R a fluoro chloro bromo nitro cyano hydroxy amino thiol C Calkyl and C Calkoxy. As used herein the term C Calkyl means an alkyl substituent having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms arranged either as a linear chain or as a branched chain. As used herein the term C Calkoxy means an alkoxy substituent having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms arranged either as a linear chain or as a branched chain and attached via an ether linkage.

Further in formula I Rand Rmay each independently be hydrogen the group L R C Calkyl amino C Calkyl hydroxy C Calkyl thio C Calkyl carboxyl C Calkyl halo C Calkyl phenyl substituted phenyl aryl substituted aryl heteroaryl or substituted heteroaryl. The substituted phenyl aryl or heteroaryl may have from 1 to 5 substituents where each substituent may be one or more of fluoro chloro bromo nitro cyano hydroxy amino thiol C Calkyl amino C Calkyl hydroxy C Calkyl thio C Calkyl carboxyl C Calkyl halo C Calkyl and C Calkoxy. As used herein the terms aryl or aryl ring include an aromatic ring i.e. a single aromatic ring or ring system i.e. a polycyclic aromatic ring system in which all ring atoms are carbon. As used herein the terms heteroaryl or heteroaryl ring include an aromatic ring i.e. a single aromatic ring or ring system i.e. a polycyclic aromatic ring system in which at least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom such as nitrogen oxygen or sulfur heteroatom.

In formula I Rand Rmay independently be the group L R hydrogen C Calkyl amino C Calkyl hydroxy C Calkyl thio C Calkyl carboxy C Calkyl halo C Calkyl phenyl substituted phenyl aryl substituted aryl heteroaryl or substituted heteroaryl. The substituted phenyl aryl or heteroaryl may have from 1 to 5 substituents where each substituent may be one or more of a fluoro chloro bromo nitro cyano hydroxy amino thiol C Calkyl amino C Calkyl hydroxy C Calkyl thio C Calkyl carboxy C Calkyl halo C Calkyl and C Calkoxy. Alternatively in certain embodiments Rand Rmay come together to form one of a benzo ring a substituted benzo ring an aryl ring a substituted aryl ring a heteroaryl ring or a substituted heteroaryl ring. The substituted benzo substituted aryl or substituted heteroaryl ring s may have from 1 to 4 substituents where each substituent may be one or more of the group L R a fluoro chloro bromo nitro cyano hydroxy amino thiol C Calkyl amino C Calkyl hydroxy C Calkyl thio C Calkyl carboxy C Calkyl halo C Calkyl and C Calkoxy.

For example according to certain embodiments the fluorophores of the present disclosure may have a structure as represented by formula II.

According to other embodiments Rand Rmay come together to form a heteroaryl ring or substituted heteroaryl ring such as a nitrogen containing heteroaromatic ring as shown in formula III. As shown in formula III each Y in the ring may be either a N or a C provided that at least one Y is N.

According to the various embodiments the fluorophores of the present disclosure exhibit fluorescence. That is the fluorophores of the present disclosure absorb electromagnetic radiation. Upon absorption of the electromagnetic radiation the frontier electron for single electron excitation of the fluorophores is promoted to an excited electronic state which then decays to a second excited electronic state concomitant with molecular vibration and or the release of heat. The fluorophores decay from the second excited state to the ground electronic state with the emission of electromagnetic radiation wherein the emitted electromagnetic radiation has a wavelength that is longer than the wavelength of the absorbed radiation. For example certain embodiments of the fluorophores having the structures set forth herein may absorb electromagnetic radiation having a wavelength within the ultraviolet region of the electromagnetic spectrum and fluoresce that is emit electromagnetic radiation at a wavelength within the blue light region of the visible spectrum. In certain embodiments the fluorophores of the present disclosure may fluoresce with an emission maximum at a wavelength within the ultraviolet or visible regions of the electromagnetic spectrum. According to certain embodiments the fluorophores of the present disclosure may fluoresce with an emission maximum at a wavelength from 200 nm to 850 nm. According to other embodiments the emission maximum may be at a wavelength from 300 nm to 600 nm. According to other embodiments the emission maximum may be at a wavelength from 400 nm to 500 nm. As used herein the term emission maximum means the wavelength of the greatest intensity within the fluorescence spectrum of a fluorophore.

Without intending to be limited by any theory or interpretation it is believed by the inventors that the fluorescent character of the core structure of the fluorophores disclosed herein may depend on and may be manipulated by changing the nature of the conjugated pi system of the fluorophore the atoms present in the fluorophore and or the substituents attached to the fluorophore. As used herein the term fluorescent character includes such characteristics of the fluorophore such as but not limited to the wavelength of light absorbed the wavelength of the fluorescence emission the fluorescence intensity and the quantum yield. Thus the fluorescent character of the fluorophores of the present disclosure may be affected by changing one or more of the nature of the pi system of the fluorophore the atoms in the fluorophore or the substitution pattern on the fluorophore.

Changes in the conjugated pi system of the fluorophore having formula I may be affected for example by extending the conjugated pi system of the fluorophore such as by fusing a benzo group substituted or unsubstituted an aryl group substituted or unsubstituted or a heteroaryl group substituted or unsubstituted to the pyrazine ring of the fluorophore for example but not limited to as set forth in formula II or III . Alternatively or additionally the conjugated pi system of the fluorophore may be extended by attaching a conjugation extending substituent to the pyrazine ring or an aromatic or heteroaromatic ring fused to the pyrazine ring. The aromatic or heteroaromatic ring may be fused directly to the pyrazine ring that is the rings share two common atoms or fused indirectly to the pyrazine ring that is the aromatic or heteroaromatic ring may be fused to an aromatic or heteroaromatic ring that is fused directly or indirectly to the pyrazine ring. For example attaching a substituent such as an electron withdrawing group or an electron donating group directly to the pyrazine ring or aromatic ring would alter the electronic nature of the conjugated pi system of the fluorophore. As used herein the term electron withdrawing group means a substituent which withdraws electron density from the fluorophore. As used herein the term electron donating group means a substituent that donates electron density into the fluorophore. Altering the conjugated pi system of the fluorophore such as by extending the pi system and or attaching an electron donating group or electron withdrawing group may change the fluorescent character of the fluorophore such as by changing the wavelength of light absorbed and or emitted or changing the fluorescent quantum yield. As used herein the term fluorescence quantum yield is a measurement of the efficiency of the fluorescence process and is defined by the ratio of the number of photons emitted to the number of photons absorbed by the fluorophore.

Changing the atoms on the fluorophore skeleton may also change the fluorescence characteristics of the fluorophore. For example and with reference to formula I changing the nature of X may affect the fluorescence characteristics of the fluorophore. That is a fluorophore having formula I wherein X is O may have a different fluorescence character than a fluorophore having structure I wherein X is S Se NR NR or NNHR. Thus each different X group may affect the fluorescence characteristics differently.

In addition changing the substitution pattern on the fluorophore may also change the fluorescence characteristics of the fluorophore. For example as set forth herein attaching a substituent such as an electron donating group or an electron withdrawing group may affect the fluorophore and therefore change the fluorescence characteristics of the fluorophore. Alternatively or in addition changing the substitution pattern on the fluorophore may also include changing the nature of the substituent Rand or R. For example changes in the nature of the substituent at Rand or Rmay affect the energy of the excited state of the fluorophore the wavelength of radiation absorbed or emitted and or the fluorescent quantum yield. In addition changing the position of one or more substituent on the ring system of the fluorophore i.e. changing the ring atom that the one or more substituent is bonded to may change the fluorescence characteristics of the fluorophore.

According to certain embodiments of the present disclosure the fluorophores may be used as a molecular probe such as a biological probe. According to certain embodiments the fluorophore may be modified with a reactive group that can react with and form a bond to a compound or substrate of interest i.e. the molecule or substrate to be probed . The product of the chemical reaction between the fluorophore and the compound or substrate of interest will then fluoresce. For example according to certain embodiments the fluorophores may contain at least one group L R wherein Ris a reactive group that is attached to the fluorophore by a covalent linkage L. Covalent linkage L may be attached to the skeleton of the fluorophore for example as substituent R R and or Ror any other available covalent attachment site such as for example R on the skeleton as shown in formulae I II and III . According to certain embodiments the covalent linkage attaching the fluorophore to Rmay contain multiple intervening atoms that may serve as a spacer for example an alkylene glycol spacer such as a polyalkylene glycol spacer.

Fluorophores of the present disclosure with one or more reactive groups Rmay label a wide variety of organic or inorganic substances that contain or may be modified to contain functional groups with suitable reactivity to react with reactive group R. The resulting reaction product may be represented by the formula F L Sub where F represents the fluorophore core L is the linkage group and Sub indicates the substrate that the fluorophore is now bound to by the residue of reactive group R . As used herein the term reactive group means any moiety on the structure L Rthat is capable of reacting chemically with a functional group on a different compound i.e. the substrate of interest to form a covalent or ionic linkage. Examples of suitable reactive groups include electrophiles or nucleophiles that can form a covalent linkage by reaction with a corresponding nucleophile or electrophile respectively on the substrate of interest. Non limiting examples of suitable electrophilic reactive groups may include for example esters including activated esters such as for example succinimidyl esters amides acrylamides acyl azides acyl halides acyl nitriles aldehydes ketones alkyl halides alkyl sulfonates anhydrides aryl halides aziridines boronates carbodiimides diazoalkanes epoxides haloacetamides haloplatinates halotriazines imido esters isocyanates isothiocyanates maleimides phosphoramidites silyl halides sulfonate esters sulfonyl halides and the like. Non limiting examples of suitable nucleophilic reactive groups may include for example amines anilines thiols alcohols phenols hyrazines hydroxylamines carboxylic acids glycols heterocycles and the like.

The covalent linkage L binds the reactive group Ror the reacted group Sub to the fluorophore either directly when L is a single bond or with a combination of stable chemical bonds for example single double triple or aromatic carbon carbon bonds carbon nitrogen bonds carbon oxygen bonds carbon sulfur bonds nitrogen nitrogen bonds phosphorus oxygen bonds phosphorus nitrogen bonds and nitrogen platinum bonds. L may include for example ether alkyl alkylene glycol polyalkylene glycol thioether carboxamide sulfonamide urea urethane phosphate ester and hyrdrazine moieties including combination of any thereof.

The choice of the reactive group R used to attach the fluorophore to the substrate typically depends on the functionality of the substrate and the type of linkage desired. The types of functionality typically present in organic or inorganic substrates of interest include but are not limited to amines amides thiols alcohols phenols aldehydes ketones phosphates imidazoles hydrazines hydroxylamines disubstituted amines halides epoxides carboxylate esters sulfonate esters purines pyrimidines carboxylic acids olefinic bonds or a combination of these functionalities. A single type of reactive functionality may be present on a substrate such as the hydroxyl group on a sugar or alternatively multiple different reactive functionality may be present on the substrate such as with a protein or nucleotide .

According to various embodiments the fluorophores may be used to bond to or label a variety of organic or inorganic substrates thereby forming a fluorescent labeled product. For example according to certain embodiments the fluorophores may have a reactive group Rsuitable for reacting with a biological monomer or polymer such as an amino acid a peptide a protein an enzyme an enzymatic substrate an antibody a nucleic acid base a nucleoside an oligonucleotide or a nucleic acid polymer single or double stranded . As used herein the term enzymatic substrate includes molecules or compounds capable of binding to an enzyme for example at the active site of the enzyme or another binding site on the enzyme.

According to certain embodiments the fluorophore such as a fluorophore with a reactive group thereon may be reacted with an amino acid or peptide chain to give respectively a fluorophore labeled amino acid or peptide chain. The fluorophore labeled amino acid or peptide chain may then be incorporated into a larger peptide or protein chain. In another embodiment the fluorophore and reactive group thereon may be reacted with a nucleic acid base or nucleoside to give respectively a fluorophore labeled nucleic acid base or nucleoside. The fluorophore labeled nucleic acid base or nucleoside may then be incorporated into a larger oligonucleotide or nucleic acid polymer.

For example according to one embodiment the fluorophore may be incorporated or bonded to an enzymatic substrate or an antibody to give a fluorescent enzymatic substrate or antibody. The fluorescent enzymatic substrate or antibody may then bind to specific enzymes or antigens respectively providing fluorescent labeled enzymes or antigens. In another embodiment the fluorophore may be incorporated or bonded to a nucleoside which may then be incorporated into a nucleic acid strand to provide a fluorescent labeled nucleic acid.

Various embodiments of the fluorophores disclosed herein may be used according to methods extensively known in the art such as use of antibody protein conjugates in microscopy and immunofluorescent assays or as nucleotide or oligonucleotide conjugates for nucleic acid hybridization assays and nucleic acid sequencing such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 332 666 5 171 534 4 997 928 and WO Application 94 05688 the disclosures of each are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference.

For example once a substrate has been labeled by the fluorophore according to various embodiments disclosed herein the fluorescence emission spectrum of the fluorescent labeled product may be measured. For example according to certain embodiments the intensity of the fluorescence emission spectrum may be determined and may be quantitatively correlated to the concentration of labeled product in the composition. In other embodiments the fluorescence emission spectrum of the fluorescent labeled product may be taken and qualitatively used to determine the presence of labeled product and therefore used to determine the presence of the target molecule i.e. the substrate in the composition.

According to other embodiments the fluorophores of the present disclosure may be used markers for metal ions for example to determine the presence of metal ions such as a metal sensor . For example under basic conditions fluorescence of the fluorophores may be quenched when in the presence of certain transition metal ions. However in the presence of other closed shell metal ions such as for example Zn Cd Hg and Pb the fluorescence of the fluorophores may still be present. In certain embodiments differential fluorescence wavelengths between complexes of the fluorophores and the metal ions can be used as sensors for such metal ions. For example fluorophore 7 may be complexed with different metal ions and depending on the type and charge of the metal ion have a fluorescent emission of light with a different wavelength according to the complexed metal ion. As can be seen in significant fluorescence is observed when fluorophore 7 is complexed with Pb ions where the fluorescence is at a wavelength which is different from fluorescence wavelength observed from the other ions. In this example the Pb fluorophore complex fluoresces at a wavelength of 470 nm whereas the Zn fluorophore complex fluorescence shifts to a higher energy wavelength of 606 nm after 24 hours of incubation. The structure of the complex of fluorophore 7 and the Cu Ni and Mo is shown in . In certain embodiments the intensity of the fluorescent emission spectrum of the complex may be determined. According to specific embodiments the fluorescent emission spectrum of the complex may be qualitatively used to determine the presence of a metal ion in a solution or alternatively may be quantitatively used for example by the intensity of the emission spectrum to determine the concentration of the metal ion in the composition. For example shows how the intensity of fluorescence varies according to the concentration of the metal fluorophore complex. Thus the fluorophores of the present disclosure may be used as potential markers for metal ions.

The fluorophores according to certain embodiments of the present disclosure may be used as a component in an electronic device. For example the fluorophores of the present disclosure may be used as an organic electronic material. In other embodiments the fluorophores may be used in a molecular electronic device. For example the fluorophores of the present disclosure may be used as a component in an LCD liquid crystal display screen or organic LED light emitting diode for example as a photostable fluorophore having a blue or bluish emission maximum. Non limiting examples of the use of fluorophores as components of electronic devices are disclosed in PCT Publication No. WO 2004 051616 the disclosure of which is incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.

According to various embodiments the fluorophores of the present disclosure may be readily synthesized using organic chemistry techniques. For example the synthesis of various embodiments of the fluorophores is described herein. It should be noted that the featured embodiments are intended to be exemplary and are in no way limiting to the scope of the fluorophores as described herein. Certain specific examples are discussed in detail in and similar methodologies can be used for synthesizing other fluorophores described herein. As illustrated in the synthetic approach begins with the protection of the substituted propargyl alcohol with tetrahydropyran protecting group resulting in alkyne 1. The terminal alkyne in compound 1 is then deprotonated with n butyl lithium and the reaction of the resulting acetylide with diethyl oxalate at a low temperature yields keto ester 2. The presence of an electron withdrawing group i.e. the ketone activates the alkyne functionality toward the reaction with styrene trithiocarbonate to introduce the protected dithiolene moiety. When the reaction was performed neat the open intermediate 3 was isolated and then transformed to the pyran dione 4 upon addition of trifluoroacetic acid. Conversely when the reaction was performed in xylene the pyran dione 4 was isolated directly. Next the dithiolethione functionality may be converted to the dithiolone by treating compound 4 with mercuric acetate. The resulting dithiolone 5 can be converted to an imine or iminium ion 5or 5respectively by reacting the dithiolone with an appropriate amine. As will be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art any of compounds 4 5 5 or 5may be converted to the fluorophore thereby resulting in variations of X as shown in formula I.

Once the diketo compounds 4 5 5 or 5are prepared they may be reacted with a variety of diamines to produce different sets of compounds as desired. The condensation reactions resemble the Isay synthesis of pteridines reported by Isay O. Eine Synthese des Purins 1906 39 250 265 the disclosure of which is incorporated in its entirety by reference herein. The synthetic schemes for such reactions are shown in . The structures of the resulting fluorophores have been confirmed by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and mass spectrometry and certain fluorophore structures have been confirmed by X ray crystallography.

According to one embodiment diketone 5 R methyl may be condensed with 2 3 diamino pyridine using microwave irradiation MW equation 1 . The resulting pair of isomeric fluorophores may be separated and exhibit different absorption spectrum. The absorption spectra and H NMR spectra of the two isomeric fluorophores are shown in .

According to another embodiment diketone 5 R ethyl may be condensed with 5 6 diamino pyrimidone R H using microwave irradiation MW equation 2 . The resulting two isomeric fluorophores may be separated and exhibit different absorption and fluorescence spectra.

These fluorophores are soluble in common organic solvents for example but not limited to chloroform methylene chloride acetonitrile and methanol and in mixtures of methanol and water. They exhibit fluorescence properties with the case of fluorophore 7 as an exemplary example. As shown in the electronic spectrum of a methanolic solution of fluorophore 7 shows three strong absorption bands at 256 nm 367 nm and 385 nm respectively. There is a shoulder near 330 nm and no transition was observed beyond 430 nm. The molar extinction coefficients of these bands are near 10000 or higher. Acetonitrile solutions of fluorophore 7 exhibit very similar spectral features with bands 208 nm 255 nm 365 nm and 383 nm. The spectral features remain unchanged in a mixed solvent such as 2.5 methanol 97.5 water. Fluorophore 7 displays fluorescence for example solutions of fluorophore 7 produce blue florescence that is emit electromagnetic radiation having a wavelength in the blue region of the visible spectrum when irradiated with a UV radiation. Fluorophore 7 is stable in acid while in base i.e. pH 7 it transforms into a less fluorescent substance. Thus in principle this compound can be used as a pH sensor. That is the fluorescence intensity may vary according to the pH of the environment or solution that the fluorophore is in.

Fluorophore 7 exhibits strong fluorescence in acetonitrile as solvent in methanol as solvent and in the methanol water mixed solvent. For an acetonitrile solution of fluorophore 7 when excited at 366 nm or 384 nm band an emission at 411 nm is observed. Similarly when a methanolic solution of fluorophore 7 is excited at 385 nm or 367 nm an emission at 415 nm is observed. Finally for a solution of fluorophore 7 in the mixed solvent when excited at 389 nm an emission is observed at 423 nm see . A 0.12 value for the quantum yield of fluorophore 7 in methanol was determined using quinine sulfate as standard.

While various specific embodiments have been described in detail herein the present disclosure is intended to cover various different combinations of the disclosed embodiments and is not limited to those specific embodiments described herein. Various embodiments of the present disclosure will be better understood when read in conjunction with the following non limiting Examples. The procedures set forth in the Examples below are not intended to be limiting herein as those skilled in the art will appreciate that various modifications to the procedures set forth in the Examples as well as to other procedures not described in the Examples may be useful in practicing the invention as described herein and set forth in the appended claims.

3 Methyl 3 tetrahydropyranyloxy butyne compound 1 and 4 phenyl 1 3 dithiolane thione were prepared according to P. G. Baraldi et al. 45 1989 1517 1532 and C. C. J. Culvenor et al. 1946 1050 the disclosures of each of which are incorporated in their entirety by reference herein. All reactions were conducted under an atmosphere of argon unless otherwise indicated. CHClwas distilled over CaH EtO over Na wire benzophenone and methanol over Mg. All the other reagents and solvents were used without further purification. Column chromatography was performed on Silica gel 65 250 mesh Sorbent Technologies .

n Butyl lithium 18 mL of a 1.6 M solution in hexane 28 mmol was added to a solution of 3 methyl 3tetrahydropyranyloxy butyne 3.3 g 19 mmol in EtO previously cooled at 0 C. The resulting solution was stirred for 30 min at 0 C. then cooled to 78 C. and diethyl oxalate 4.3 mL 29.4 mmol was added. The reaction was followed by TLC hexane AcOEt 90 10 . After ca. 2 h the reaction mixture was poured in a cold aqueous solution of NHCl. The aqueous layer was extracted with of EtO 3 25 mL . The organics were dried over MgSO the solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the resulting pale yellow oil was purified by chromatography silica gel hexane AcOEt 90 10 to give ethyl 5 methyl 2 oxo 5 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yloxy hex 3 ynoate 2 as a pale yellow liquid. Yield 2.04 g 40 . H NMR spectrum in CDCl ppm 5.10 m 1H 4.38 q 2H 4.36 m 2H 3.96 m 2H 3.54 m 2H 1.85 m 2H 1.75 m 2H 1.64 s 3H 1.59 s 3H 1.40 t 3H . C NMR spectrum in CDCl ppm 169.3 158.7 101.4 96.2 81.6 70.5 63.1 31.5 29.2 28.9 25.2 19.9 13.8 13.8. Selected IR neat cm 2209 1741 1689. MS APCI calculated for CHO M 268.13. found 267.96.

Ethyl 5 methyl 2 oxo 5 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yloxy hex 3 ynoate 2 1.0 g 3.7 mmol and 4 phenyl 1 3 dithiolane thione 2.0 g 9.3 mmol were dissolved in xylene 15 mL . The deep yellow solution was heated to 130 C. for ca. 4 h under Ar the reaction was followed by TLC eluent CHCl . The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and purification of the residue by chromatography silica gel CHCl provided 4 4 dimethyl 2 thioxo 4H 1 3 dithiolo 4 5 c pyran 6 7 dione 4 as a yellow solid. Yield 0.44 g 48 . H NMR spectrum in CDCl ppm 1.88 s 6H . C NMR spectrum in CDCl ppm 205.3 167.7 162.6 157.8 153.6 83.2 31.9. Selected IR neat cm 1747 1681 1557 1460. MS ESI calculated for CHOSNa M Na 268.96. found 268.79.

Mercury acetate 181 mg 0.568 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 4 4 dimethyl 2 thioxo 4H 1 3 dithiolo 4 5 c pyran 6 7 dione 6 100 mg 0.406 mmol in CHCl AcOH 3 1 . The reaction was followed by TLC silica CHCl and after ca. 30 min the mixture is filtered through a celite pad to remove the mercury salts. The resulting solution was washed first with water 3 15 mL and then with sat. aqueous NaHCO 5 10 mL and dried over MgSO. Removal of the solvent under reduced pressure afforded pure 4 4 dimethyl 4H 1 3 dithiolo 4 5 c pyran 2 6 7 trione 5 a pale beige solid. Yield 65 mg 70 . H NMR spectrum in CDCl ppm 1.88 s 6H . C NMR spectrum in CDCl ppm 184.5 163.5 160.4 153.5 128.3 84.2 31.8. Selected IR neat cm 1746 1693 1641 1552 1453. MS ESI calculated for CHOS M H 230.98. found 230.78 calculated for CHOSNa M Na 252.96. found 252.79.

o Phenylenediamine 50 mg 0.22 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 4 4 dimethyl 4H 1 3 dithiolo 4 5 c pyran 2 6 7 trione 5 100 mg 0.43 mmol in methanol 15 mL . The solution was stirred overnight then the solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by crystallization from CHCl hexane yielding pure 3 5 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl 2 oxo 1 3 dithiol 4 yl quinoxalin 2 1H one 6 as a light orange solid. Yield 124.5 mg 91 . H NMR spectrum in CDCl ppm 10.40 bs 1H 7.88 d 1H 7.62 t 1H 7.43 d 1H 7.28 t 1H 4.28 s 1H 1.61 s 6H . H NMR spectrum in CDOD ppm 7.82 d 1H 7.60 t 1H 7.39 d 1H 7.36 t 1H 1.52 s 6H . CNMR spectrum in CDOD ppm 194.6 158.7 156.0 148.2 136.0 132.6 127.9 125.5 123.6 122.3 119.2 77.3 33.8. Selected IR neat cm 1667 1598. MS ESI calculated for CHNOS M H 319.03. found 318.87. UV vis in acetonitrile nm Mcm 230 19187 283 9295 356 21820 .

Method 1 4 4 Dimethyl 4H 1 3 dithiolo 4 5 c pyran 2 6 7 trione 5 80 mg 0.347 mmol o phenylenediamine 40 mg 0.347 mmol and trifluoroacetic acid 70 L were mixed in a mortar until a homogeneous solid was obtained. The solid was heated to 70 C. in a vacuum oven for 18 h. The crude was purified by chromatography silica gel CHCl . The first fraction collected was pure 4 4 Dimethyl 4H 5 oxa 1 3 dithia 6 11 diaza cyclopenta a anthracen 2 one 7 . Yield 15 mg 14 . A second fraction was collected from the column using a mixture of CHCland methanol 98 2 as solvent which was identified as 3 5 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl 2 oxo 1 3 dithiol 4 yl quinoxalin 2 1H one 6 . Yield 25 mg 22 . H NMR spectrum in CDCl ppm 7.96 d 1H 7.83 d 1H 7.66 t 1H 7.60 t 1H 1.84 s 6H Me . C NMR spectrum in CDCl ppm 189.0 152.5 141.0 140.7 139.6 133.7 130.5 128.6 128.1 127.5 124.2 81.2 30.0. Selected IR neat cm 1705 1664 1624 1461 1409. MS APCI calculated for CHNOS M H 303.02. found 302.93. UV vis in acetonitrile nm Mcm 208 19187 255 8543 365 10418 383 10244 . UV vis in methanol nm Mcm 256 10988 367 11194 385 9568 .

Method 2 4 4 Dimethyl 4H 1 3 dithiolo 4 5 c pyran 2 6 7 trione 5 150 mg 0.65 mmol o phenylenediamine 75 mg 0.65 mmol and montmorillonite KSF 100 mg were mixed in a mortar until a homogeneous solid was obtained then the solid mixture was transferred into a test tube and irradiated with microwaves for 4 min. The resulting mixture was purified by chromatography silica gel CHCl to give pure 4 4 Dimethyl 4H 5 oxa 1 3 dithia 6 1 1 diaza cyclopenta a anthracen 2 one 7 . Yield 90 mg 45 .

Method 3 3 5 2 Hydroxypropan 2 yl 2 oxo 1 3 dithiol 4 yl quinoxalin 2 1H one 6 130 mg 0.405 mmol was partially dissolved in CHCl 10 mL . Benzylchloroformate 125 L 0.81 mmol and triethylammine 120 L were added and the resulting yellow solution was stirred overnight. The volume of the solution was reduced to ca. 3 mL and it was purified by chromatography silica gel CHCl to give pure 4 4 Dimethyl 4H 5 oxa 1 3 dithia 6 11 diaza cyclopenta a anthracen 2 one 7 . Yield 82 mg 70 .

Determination of Stoichiometry of Pb Ligand Complex In this Example the relative intensity of the fluorescent emission of the Pb Ligand was determined at varying mole fraction of ligand.

A solution of ligand 4 4 Dimethyl 4H 5 oxa 1 3 dithia 6 11 diaza cyclopenta a anthracen 2 one 7 in 2.5 methanol in water containing a 1 2 ratio of ligand to EtNOH was titrated with a solution of the metal salt lead acetate in 2.5 methanol in water. The mole fraction of the ligand in the solution was varied. The mixture of metal and ligand was incubated for an hour after addition to ensure complex formation and then the fluorescent emission spectrum intensity was measured and plotted against the mole fraction of ligand. The plot of the emission intensity vs. mole fraction of fluorophore is presented in . The maximum fluorescence intensity was observed at a mole fraction of 0.5 indicating a 1 1 complex. In addition the intensity of the fluorescence was greater for the complex than for the uncomplexed ligand. Thus indicating that binding of the metal to the ligand could act as a sensor showing the presence of metal ion in solution.

Although the invention has been described in detail in the foregoing embodiment for the purpose of illustration it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that variations can be made therein by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

