---

title: Command inflatable boat stopping barrier
abstract: An inflatable barrier system halts an approaching boat. A barrier support platform houses a pressurized gas source and a power supply and has a winch connected to a pair of cables. An inflatable barrier body member having a bow and stern is coupled to the pressurized gas source for inflation of the body member and the cables are connected to the bow and stern to deploy the inflated body member at the surface of the water and to maintain the bow above the surface and the stern below the surface of the water. A barrier controller provides signals indicative of the approaching boat to initiate the inflation of the inflatable barrier body member and the deployment of the inflated barrier body member at the surface with the bow above the surface and the stern below the surface without inflicting excessive damage to the boat or injury to its occupants.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07637224&OS=07637224&RS=07637224
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07637224
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080620
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

This invention is for a quickly deployable barrier for boats. More particularly this invention provides a non visible submerged ramp shaped flotation barrier selectably released and inflated to non lethally and non destructively divert or stop forward progress and navigability of boats to secure an area.

Usually manned patrol craft or aircraft are sent to intercept potentially hostile boats or small water craft intruding in a restricted water area. To be successful however the boat or small craft must be willing to stop for closer inspection if this isn t accomplished the intercepting craft would have to use destructive force to engage the intruder with the danger of receiving hostile fire in return.

To reduce the hazard of friendly damage and casualties a variety of floating barriers also have evolved to stop fast moving boats in restricted areas of water. A common approach for many barriers is to string out lengths of light weight but resilient materials such as plastic and foam. Typical examples of components and arrangements for these and other more effective barriers can be made from a series of discrete floats linked together by lines or cables. Exemplary arrangements of linked together floats and lines are being marketed as Armorfloat Floating Barrier Systems see http armorfloat.com as the SEABARRIER see http www.seaward.com products floating barriets seabarrier index.html and as the Small Standard Duty SEA CUSHION Marine Fenders that are made of solid foam construction with high Filament reinforced skin in order to survive without going flat if punctured.

Another barrier design calls for establishing a perimeter fence that can absorb the impact of a fast moving boat. For example the port security barrier system of U.S. Pat. No. 6 681 709 utilizes a continuous modular floating barrier installed in lengths ranging from a few hundred feet to over a mile. This floating barrier is made up of a plurality of modular net structures connected to one another to form a floating security fence supported by a plurality of mooring buoys. Another similar barrier is the harbor fence disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 233 544 that is designed to be deployed in water around ships or other waterfront structures. This harbor fence has a series of spars that protrude above the water surface and are connected with an electrical computer to a telemetry subsystem. Still another related design that is said to provide controllable access to an otherwise protected area is the fence like harbor protection apparatus of U.S. Patent Application Publication US 2006 021616A1. Side by side floating barrier units support nets above the water to protect an area of a body of water from waterborne craft. A gate is included to allow the craft to access or egress the protected area. Finally there s the DUNLOP Ship Fender Barrier. The barriers made by Dunlop Inc. are inflated cylinders of a rubber coated textile measuring eighty two feet long by eight feet in diameter. They are linked together or to a mooring buoy.

All of these contemporary barrier structures are stationary structures that float on the water in the open and are highly visible from afar. Consequently they can be easily seen and present a target that can be neutralized or breached by explosives or bypassed by a high speed maneuverable boat.

Thus in accordance with this inventive concept a need has been recognized in the state of the art for a quickly deployable barrier system having a non visible submerged ramp shaped flotation barrier body member automatically and or observer released and inflated to divert or stop high speed boats from protected areas of water.

The present invention provides an inflatable barrier system capable of diverting an approaching boat without inflicting excessive damage to the boat or injury to its occupants. A barrier support platform houses a pressurized gas source and a power supply and has a winch connected to a pair of cables. An inflatable barrier body member having a bow and stern is coupled to the pressurized gas source for inflation of the body member and the cables are connected to the bow and stern to deploy the inflated body member at the surface of the water and to maintain the bow above the surface and the stern below the surface of the water. A barrier controller provides signals indicative of the approaching boat to initiate the inflation of the inflatable barrier body member and the deployment of the inflated barrier body member at the surface with the bow above the surface and the stern below the surface. An acoustic modem signal receiver is also housed in the support platform and is responsive to the signals indicative of the approaching boat on the water s surface. Control electronics are also housed in the support platform and are responsive to the acoustic modem signal receiver to actuate the gas source and the winch. The inflatable barrier body member has an inflatable chamber and is wedge shaped when the chamber is inflated by pressurized gas. A deflating valve is connected to the body member to allow its selective deflation and a one way inflation valve fitting is connected to the body member to receive and pass pressurized gas from the pressurized gas source to the inflatable chamber. The body member has tough flexible walls of a heavy duty laminate structure enclosing an inflatable chamber. A topside surface layer of thick tough rough textured material is disposed on the body member and has a very high friction coefficient to arrest forward progress and to keep the broached boat from sliding backward off the inflated body member.

An object of the invention is to provide an inflatable barrier system having a wedge shaped inflatable barrier body member to divert stop motion of a boat.

Another object of the invention is to provide a non visible ramp shaped inflatable barrier that is retained below the surface of the water and is capable of being rapidly inflated and deployed to the water air interface to divert stop boats.

Another object of the invention is to provide an inflatable barrier system activated by an observer and or sensing device responsive to an approaching boat to inflate a deflated barrier body member beneath the surface of the water to create a wedge shaped inflated barrier body member at the water air interface.

Another object of the invention is to provide an inflatable barrier system having a ramp shaped inflatable barrier body member to divert stop motion of a boat with low impact to reduce the possibility of boat damage and or injury to its occupants.

These and other objects of the invention will become more readily apparent from the ensuing specification when taken in conjunction with the appended claims.

Referring to an inflatable barrier system of the invention is submerged below the surface of a body of water on the bottom . Alternatively the system can be moored above the bottom while remaining concealed below surface . Barrier system therefore is hidden from view by personnel on an approaching boat or other small craft until a flexible inflatable barrier body member is inflated on a barrier support platform and is deployed to surface to arrest the motion of boat .

Barrier support platform preferably has a heavy duty metal construction that may be additionally negatively ballasted to function as a heavy sea anchor enclosure or housing for barrier system that holds it on the bottom when inflatable barrier body member on platform is inflated. The robust construction of platform allows it to be quickly placed on bottom at short notice by expeditiously dropping it into water from a boat or low flying aircraft. Platform has several sealed compartments that each can contain electrically interconnected control electronics valve controlled pressurized gas cylinders a power supply or an acoustic modem cabled command signal receiver . Control electronics receive command inflate and deflate signals from receiver that receives signals indicative of a sensed intruding boat from a barrier controller that may include a percipient observer sending indicative signals over lead . Control electronics generate inflation command signals for pressurized gas source and or deployment command signals for winch to inflate body member and pay out cables and for rapid ascent of inflated body member . Other appropriate deflation command signals and retrieval command signals can be generated by electronics for deflating valve on inflatable barrier body member and winch to deflate and reel in deflated body member when needed. Control electronics can be programmed to incorporate several rules of engagement options including automatic inflate and or deflate of body member and deploy retrieve cables and based on set cues of sensors of barrier controller or requirements of manual confirmations authorizations to fire inflate and or deflate. Pressurized gas cylinders can contain pressurized air or any of a number of other gases and can have external fittings not shown for manual recharging of the gas or air supply as required. Alternately gas cylinders could be connected via power umbilical and high pressure hoses in selected configurations to a distant floating platform or dock having a generator air compressor and autonomous or automatic replenishment features could be added. Power supply provides power for the control electronics acoustic modem and cable signal receiver actuators for valves and and winch . Connection for external power applied via a submerged cable is also provided both to power the system externally and recharge the batteries of power supply .

Remotely located barrier controller is placed in the expected path of an expected intruding boat . Barrier controller can include an acoustic target detection sensing device known as the US NAVY TDD Mk 71 which can be upgraded to autonomously detect classify and localize targeted boats that would be within range of inflatable barrier system of the invention and to generate sensed signals indicative of the intruding boat . Barrier controller also has remotely extending lead to allow a remote observer or other sensor systems or control computers to selectively activate and or augment the signal gathering capability of controller to deploy or retract inflatable barrier system as needed. Barrier controller and the observer provide the appropriate indicative signals for receiver and control electronics and to initiate suitable components that assure the effectiveness of inflatable barrier system . Acoustic modem cable line receiver accepts the external sensed indicative signals for initiating selective inflation and deflation of body member from barrier controller via insulated wire which is connected to receiver .

Sealed motor driven winch is mounted on barrier support platform and is responsive to deploy and retrieve body member in response to command signals from electronics . When barrier controller provides signals that may represent an intruding boat and feeds these signals to control electronics via acoustic modem signal receiver command signals are generated to inflate release and deploy inflatable barrier body member . Compressed gas is fed to body member via high pressure passageway and one way valve and winch begins to unreel fore and aft restraint cables and so that the now buoyant inflated body member rapidly rises to surface to intercept boat . At an appropriate later time a deflation control signal from barrier controller lead is sent to control electronics via signal receiver causing deflating valve to open and vent pressurized gas from body member . The venting of pressurized gas causes body member to deflate as winch reels cables and back in to re locate the deflated barrier body member on support platform as shown in for a subsequent operational cycle when desired.

Referring also to inflatable barrier body member has tough flexible walls enclosing an inflatable chamber . When the chamber is inflated body member preferably takes the form of a wedge shaped structure with the narrow side of the wedge facing in the direction from which an intruding boat would be expected as shown in . The flexible walls of body member can be fabricated from a heavy duty laminate structure made from one or more different heavy duty fabrics having man made and or natural interwoven fibers and or including metallic filament like strength members. The interwoven heavy duty fabrics are impregnated with a strong tough flexible adhesive bonding composite to form a flexible matrix that may include stays and other tough flexible reinforcing members for additional strength and resistance to scuffing and tearing. Suitable fabrics and flexible bonding adhesives fabricated as a heavy duty laminate structures for flexible walls of inflatable body member are well known in the art.

The bottom part of flexible walls of inflatable body member has a one way inflation valve fitting coupled to receive and pass pressurized gas from high pressure passageway extending from pressurized gas cylinders to inflatable chamber . When flexible body member is inflated into a wedge shape by pressurized gas from pressurized cylinders inflation fitting automatically detaches from passageway and remains closed when body member becomes filled and floats towards the surface .

Restraint cables and are respectively connected to heavy duty forward and rear mounting loops and on the forward and rearward portions and of inflatable barrier body member . The lengths of forward and aft cables and are maintained at specific relative lengths to orient the inflated body member at surface at an inclination referred to as the intercept attitude. This intercept attitude allows the buoyancy of body member to place bow of barrier member above surface of water and allows stern to be below surface of water . In other words this intercept attitude is created when cables and are properly extended by winch to place inflated body member at surface of water and the right amount of tensile force otherwise known as the proper deploying tensile force is exerted and maintained on cables and by winch to allow buoyancy of member to raise and retain bow above and pull down stern below surface . The relative lengths of and tensions on cables and on winch can be maintained to assure that the intercept attitude is maintained irrespective of the depth of water. Consequently inflatable barriers of the invention can be kept in inventory and used when and where needed without requiring extensive tuning for the different operational depths.

When forward and aft restraint cables and are connected to inflatable barrier body member the buoyancy of the inflated body member can allow it to rise in a controlled fashion toward surface of water by unreeling controlled amounts of cables and from winch . Winch can also be controlled by control electronics to selectively reel in lengths of cables and to bring inflated body member down in water when this action is required.

When inflatable barrier body member is inflated it is shaped into a wedge profile that can be drawn down into water by applying the proper deploying tensile force in cables and by winch . A speeding approaching surface boat can ride up onto its topside surface layer effectively beaching or halting the forward progress of boat . Topside surface layer is made of a thick tough rough textured material having a very high friction coefficient. This material will arrest the forward progress of boat and keep the hull of boat from sliding backward off inflated body member effectively keeping boat from escaping. Topside surface can also include a broaching sensor which detects the impact of boat on layer and sends a signal back through cables and to control electronics to issue a command signal to winch . Winch can then unreel more of cables and to further raise boat higher and dryer on barrier body member .

Referring also to and the operation of inflatable barrier system of the invention may rely on a barrier controller that senses and identifies the radiated acoustic signal A of an approaching potentially hostile boat or other surface craft. At the appropriate time a command release inflate signal A is generated and sent via a wire or acoustic modem to barrier support platform lying on bottom . Optionally a percipient system operator might also be on station to observe intruding craft and initiate signal A over wire via remotely extending lead . In either case components of support platform described above are appropriately actuated to inflate barrier body member which has been in the deflated condition on support platform as shown in .

When release inflate command A is received from barrier controller at least one valve of pressurized gas cylinders is opened by appropriate control signals from receiver and control electronics to release volumes of compressed gas through passageway and one way valve and into inflatable chamber in body member . The pressurized gases in chamber rapidly inflate body member which rises quickly to surface of water body see . The inflated barrier body is shaped to present a wedge shaped barrier member at the water air interface at surface . This wedge shaped barrier body member has its bow above surface and its stern below surface and rises out of water in front of the approaching boat . The forward momentum of the speeding boat causes it to ride up on topside surface layer of inflated barrier body member and essentially beaches itself on it as shown in .

The creation and maintenance of the proper deploying tensile forces by winch acting through restraint cables and at bow and stern of body member assures the proper orientation of body member so that boat will ride up on it. Acceptable values for the proper deploying tensile forces can be pre established in control electronics and monitored by appropriate sensors at winch so that power supply feeds appropriate levels of power to winch to create and maintain these forces in cables and .

Since the surface material of topside surface of inflated barrier body member has a very rough texture with a high friction coefficient the beached boat is kept from sliding back off body member after it has been stopped. For some applications of inflatable barrier system the topside surface of inflated barrier body member can have different textures or no texture at all. The topside surface can also be made to include wires and projections to assure arresting of craft and or topside surface can be smooth and or have camouflaged coloration fabrics and or be non reflective of impinging acoustic and or radar energy to further improve the effectiveness of barrier .

Inflatable barrier system including its inflatable barrier body member is sized to the scale of the boats that it intends to intercept. A typical boat intended to be stopped is relatively small in the neighborhood of up to sixteen meters in length. If larger craft are anticipated those skilled in the art having the teachings of this invention before them can scale inflatable barrier system of the invention to provide an optimum effect for a specific range of boat sizes.

Inflatable barrier body member and topside surface layer may also have many filaments or other interfering structure that will wind on the propeller of boat to arrest it or reduce the possibility of damage to body member by the propeller. Alternatively topside surface layer can be strengthened with structured reinforcement filament steel Kevlar fibers to prevent damage to body member .

While a wedge shape of indeterminable depth has been described one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains can design a barrier system based on this inventive concept to accommodate local considerations. This wedge shaped body member can be dimensioned to span channels or areas of considerable sizes. A number of anchored lines may have to be included to maintain the barrier like capabilities of deeper and more elongated shapes for a barrier system. Accordingly if desired the shape of an inflatable body member and barrier support platform can be made more oblong and may be oriented to present a larger cross section to enhance the likelihood of successful encounter. Orientation of body members on the surface of the water may be achieved by using a dual release from the submerged platform. An assisting jet like mechanism or a small underwater rocket or propulsion mechanism can be used to accelerate and position the deployment of inflatable body members of the rapidly rising barrier.

Alignment of the bow and stern of an inflatable barrier body member with the orientation of a support platform on the bottom might be done by extending one of the restraint cables from the winch across the platform to a pulley and then up to either of the bow or stern with the other cable connected to the other one. The separated upward extending cables at the platform will have the same separation and orientation where they are connected at the floating body member so that the floating body member will be essentially in the same azimuth as the support platform. In addition auxiliary lines connected to floating body members can extend to distant anchors to point them in the direction of possible intruding boats.

Inflatable barrier system of the invention creates a relatively low impact on the vessel being stopped and its occupants and minimizes permanent damage to the vessel and or injury to the occupants. Also inflatable barrier system of the invention will preferably utilize a modular and open architecture that will allow for easy upgrading and optimization of barrier systems and targeted surface craft.

Modifications and alternate embodiments of inflatable barrier system of the invention may be adapted and differently configured to accommodate different security needs under different operational conditions. For example inflatable body member needs not be wedge shaped as described but can be any of many other geometrical shapes so long as they are moored to extend a bow portion above surface and a stern portion below surface that creates a ramp shaped structure rising out of water in front of the approaching surface craft or boat. Consequently the forward momentum of the speeding craft causes it to ride up on topside surface of the inflated barrier body member to essentially beach or broach itself on it.

The disclosed components and their arrangements as disclosed herein all contribute to the novel features of this invention. It should be readily understood that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible within the purview of the claimed invention. It is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

