---

title: Optically-triggered multi-stage power system and devices
abstract: A multi-stage optically-triggered power system. At least one triggering stage is responsive to at least one optical trigger to directly create photogeneration of carriers in the at least one triggering stage and thus generate at least one output signal. At least one main power device stage coupled to the at least one triggering stage is responsive to the at least one generated output signal to activate the at least one main power device stage. The at least one triggering stage and the at least one main power device stage may be monolithically integrated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08294078&OS=08294078&RS=08294078
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08294078
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080611
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 934 107 filed Jun. 11 2007 under 35 U.S.C. 119. U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 934 107 is incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.

This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 922 185 filed Jan. 10 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 183 512 entitled OPTICALLY TRIGGERED POWER SYSTEM AND DEVICES which is incorporated by reference herein.

This invention was made with Government assistance under Air Force Research Laboratory Grant No. FA8650 05 M 2553 and Office of Naval Research Grant No. N00014 06 1 0227. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates to power electronics and more particularly to optically triggered power devices for power electronic systems.

Next generation photonic power electronic systems based on optically triggered devices OTDs provide key advantages over conventional electrically triggered devices ETD based switching power systems. For example optical switching enhances the possibility of system integration by reducing the problems associated with electromagnetic interference EMI effects. Further for an optically triggered OT converter designs of high and low side drivers can remain the same yielding simple design enhanced reliability and monolithic integration. By contrast for two and higher level electrically triggered ET switching converters different designs of low and high side drivers are required the latter is especially difficult to design for medium and high power applications. Optical triggering also provides the possibility of optically modulating by varying the properties of the optical signal for example intensity wavelength etc. the radiated conducted electromagnetic signature of a power electronics system. Optical triggering further provides possibility of controlling the efficiency of the power electronics system dynamically. Additionally owing to the direct photogeneration which introduces very short delay optical triggering enables synchronized operation of series parallel connected array of power devices. This may enable creating series parallel connected switch assembly for scaling up the voltage blocking or current carrying capability which is otherwise not possible with a single power device in existing technology.

Additionally unlike an OTD as the switching frequency of an ETD increases parasitic oscillations may be induced in the driver circuit owing to coupling effects because of the device capacitance and the parasitic inductance of the gate connection and to transmission line effects. Also in an OTD there is complete isolation between the gate driver and the power stage. As such very high di dt and dv dt which cause significant reliability problems in an ETD at a high switch frequency have no impact on an OTD. Therefore the basic architecture of the gate driver in an OTD is simple. Still further an OTD based converter does not suffer from gate driver failure due to short circuiting.

Additionally recent research has shown that tangible reductions in weight volume and cost are possible through an application of emerging photonic technologies for air land or sea based vehicle power management systems such as those based on fly by light FBL architecture. An electrically isolated flight control mode based on photonic technology could provide a lightweight EMI resistant system.

However to realize such photonic power electronics device technologies that address several key issues are needed. One such issue is wavelength of operation from the standpoint of trade off between cost optical absorption and technical complexity of the optical source. Another issue is electrical gain. To reduce the power requirements volume and weight of the optical triggering source high electrical device gain and quantum efficiency are desirable. A further issue is switching speed. A fast turn on and turn off of the OTD along with low on resistance is needed to efficiently support high frequency repetitive switching in power electronics. A low loss rapid switching capability also enhances the power density of the power system which is desirable for most applications. Yet another issue is high temperature operability. High temperature operability is often required to address the robustness of the power converter and high power density.

Light triggered thyristors and optothyristors are two known examples of photoconductive power devices designed for power electronics. However both of these known devices feature an inherent thyristor like latch up problem leading to uncontrollable and slow turn off which is not desirable for a fast repetitive switching device.

Moreover vertical devices like optothyristors employ a semi insulating thick layer instead of a controllably doped layer. This results in a large voltage drop across the device during conduction. For switching devices in power electronic applications this drop is unacceptable from an efficiency point of view and the voltage sustaining layer must be doped controllably so as to maintain an optimum balance between on state conduction drop and off stage voltage blocking capability.

Embodiments of the present invention provide among other things a multi stage optically triggered power system. The system comprises at least one triggering stage that is responsive to at least one optical trigger to directly create photogeneration of carriers in the at least one triggering stage and thus generate at least one output signal. At least one power device coupled to the at least one triggering stage is responsive to the at least one generated output signal to activate the at least one power device.

Example embodiments of the present invention can have one or a plurality of such triggering stages power devices and combination of output signals and can accept one or a plurality of optical triggers.

In an additional embodiment of the present invention a monolithically integrated power device is provided. The power device comprises at least one triggering stage responsive to at least one optical trigger to directly create photogeneration of carriers in the at least one triggering stage and thus generate at least one output signal. At least one main power device is coupled to the at least one triggering stage and responsive to the at least one generated output signal to activate the at least one power device. The at least one triggering stage and the at least one main power device are monolithically integrated into the power device.

There are examples of known methods related to optical controlling of power devices. However conventional methods do not provide direct optical control where the photogenerated carriers control the conduction properties of the power device for power electronics application. In particular conventional methods optical drivers employ photodiode based structures as the optically activated element. There is room for improvement in that aspect by designing transistor based structures with internal gain to further reduce optical triggering power requirement. For all of these technologies the optically triggered element acts only as a control signal detecting element and therefore cannot modulate the dynamics or steady state properties of the power device and therefore cannot control the properties of overall power electronics system either by optical modulation. Providing this modulation capability is a significant aim of particular embodiments of the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention provide among other things a multi stage optically triggered power system. Broadly a power system refers to a power processing device or system or group array and or network of power processing devices or systems that receives at least one input from one or more energy sources and feeds one or more application loads. The power system includes at least one first or triggering stage which broadly refers to a device or part of a device that in response to at least one optical signal referred to as an optical trigger herein generates at least one output signal for activating at least one second or subsequent stage referred to as a main power device stage or main power device. An optical trigger is any optical signal that can be received to initiate photogeneration. Nonlimiting examples of optical triggers are generated from a laser a light emitting diode LED or other sources. The optical trigger may be generated by as a nonlimiting example a converter that converts electrical control signals to optical control signals. The power system can have one or a plurality of such triggering stages power devices and combination of output signals and can accept one or a plurality of optical triggers.

The triggering stage is responsive to the at least one optical trigger to directly create photogeneration of carriers in the triggering stage and accordingly generate at least one output signal. An output signal is any signal that can be generated by the triggering device to activate the main power device and may include electrical signals optical signals or others. A main power device stage may be as nonlimiting examples a bipolar junction transistor metal insulator semiconductor transistor junction field effect transistor thyristor silicon controlled rectifier insulated gate bipolar transistor etc. The at least one main power device stage is coupled to the at least one triggering stage for example by a suitable electrical or optical coupling and is responsive to the at least one generated output signal to activate the power device.

By configuring the power system in this way the triggering stage s can be selected and or configured alone or in combination with the main power device stage s to provide scalability of optical triggered operation for the power system. Further the triggering stage being optically activated can be used in combination with any of various main power stages to provide a hybrid power system. The use of multiple stages with the first stage being optically triggered provides a cascading power system which can be optimized for many situations and requirements.

In other example embodiments of the present invention a power device is provided which includes at least one triggering stage responsive to at least one optical trigger to directly create photogeneration of carriers in the triggering stage and thus generate at least one output signal. At least one main power device stage main power device is coupled to the at least one triggering stage and responsive to the output signal to activate the power device. The at least one triggering stage and the at least one main power device are monolithically integrated into the power device.

Though it is possible to physically separate the main power device stage and the triggering stage in some example embodiments of the present invention as provided herein other embodiments monolithically integrate the stages. Example power systems and devices herein incorporate separate and or monolithically integrated stages to provide various embodiments.

Embodiments of the present invention employ photogeneration i.e. generation of electron hole pairs by shining light of a suitable wavelength on a semiconductor and recombination mechanism to trigger a power semiconductor device from off state to on state and vice versa without any electrical signal applied to the device s controlling gate terminal. This precludes the need to have an electrical gate terminal. As the photogeneration is an instantaneous process an almost zero delay between the shining of light and initiation of device turn on results. The turn off speed is primarily governed by the recombination lifetime of the photogenerated carriers.

Using primary device materials of very short lifetime such as GaAs fast repetitive switching capability by reducing both turn on and turn off time can be achieved. Advantages over conventional designs are provided in particular embodiments by integrating optically active nature of a III V compound semiconductor e.g. GaAs to a P N junction based power device structure and thus triggering a switching power semiconductor device through direct optical control using one or more optical sources of monochromatic wavelength.

Preferred embodiments will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic figures that are not to scale which will be fully understood by skilled artisans with reference to the accompanying description. Features may be exaggerated for purposes of illustration. From the preferred embodiments artisans will recognize additional features and broader aspects of the invention.

Turning now to a direct optically triggered power electronic system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention includes a controller for outputting electrical control signals. A converter receives the electrical control signals from the controller and converts then into optical signals light signals . The electrical or optical signals may be for example variable constant frequency and or pulse width pulse amplitude. The converter includes a number of optical drivers such as laser or light emitting diode LED drivers for generating the optical signals having the same or different wavelengths and same or different intensities. The optical signals from the converter are then carried by optical waveguides such as optical fibers to optically triggered power devices which operate or trigger when the optical signals are received.

In an example embodiment the controller is an electronic circuit that generates suitable timing signals for controlling the turn on and turn off of the power devices in the power electronics system . The controller receives information on the electrical state of the power electronics system e.g. voltage at different nodes current through different branches of the circuit through suitable sensors and processes that information to generate the control signals.

The converter may be as a nonlimiting example a semiconductor laser diode which accepts input electrical current signals and generates output light pulses accordingly. It may also be for example a light emitting diode or a multi stage device such as a solid state laser system pumped by a laser diode. In the latter case the laser diode accepts the input electrical signals and converts them to optical signals which are fed to the solid state laser. The solid state laser then generates the final output optical signals. Nevertheless the example overall converter takes input electrical signals and generates output optical signals following the input signals.

Referring to optically triggered power devices and include two electrical terminals attached respectively to a source region and a drain region and an optical window . The power devices also include epitaxial layers of a P type layer of AlGaAs an N type layer of GaAs and an N AlGaAs surface barrier layer in the optical window from the bottom respectively grown on top of the semi insulating GaAs substrate shown in .

GaAs was chosen as the primary device material because of its direct bandgap nature higher mobility and fast photogeneration recombination dynamics. The doping and thickness values of these layers have been chosen to realize the superjunction charge balance i.e. the total positive charge contributed by the P type layer nullifies the total negative charge contributed by the N type layers on top of it. This ensures complete depletion of a drift region formed by the GaAs N type layer and makes the breakdown voltage of the power devices linearly dependent on the drift length L. In the blocking or open state the applied voltage is supported by the reverse biased P N junction between a P body region and the N drift region .

The source and the drain regions below the terminals are highly doped areas. For the power device such as an optically triggered power transistor OTPT both are N type and for the power device such as an optically gated bipolar transistor OGBT the source region is an N type and the drain region is a P type. These regions inject the carriers electrons and holes into their respective power devices from the circuit not shown through the electrical contacts that is the terminals .

The optical window in the embodiment shown in includes an anti reflecting layer between the electrodes preferably made of suitable dielectric material such as SiN of particular thickness e.g. approximately 100 nm thick that results in minimum amount of reflection of light. The diffused P body region of the power device is realized by a zinc diffusion method and creates an almost parallel plate like junction with the N drift region . The thin AlGaAs surface barrier layer is used to suppress Fermi pinning effects and surface recombination velocity effects which may otherwise degrade the overall device performance lowering the optical triggering efficiency. The AlGaAs surface barrier layer being transparent to the operating wavelength of the optical signals does not cause photogeneration.

When triggering light shines on the optical window the conduction starts by photogeneration in the P body region . For the power device such as the OTPT shown in the optical window spreads over the drift length Lbetween the drain and source regions and photogenerated carriers electrically connect the terminals via a conducting channel . When the triggering light shuts off photogenerated carriers recombine and the channel ceases to turn the power device off.

For the power device such as the OGBT shown in the optical window only covers the region around the P body region and photogenerated electrons act as the base current for the lateral P N P transistor to turn the device on. The forward biased P N junction on the drain region side of the power device injects holes into the drift region that modulates its conductivity and starts current conduction that is the holes start a process called optically initiated conductivity modulation . When the light shuts off the base current to the P N P transistor ceases due to recombination and the power device shuts off.

This additional carrier injection by the P N P transistor helps to achieve gain for the OGBT type power device . The optical window needs to cover only the P body region to create a photogenerated channel to supply electrons. This is unlike the OTPT type power device where direct photogenerated carriers help to build the device current without any additional electrical gain. This makes OTPT turn on very fast limited only by laser driver shown in trigger rise time. For the OGBT type power device the hole injection from the P drain region builds up the primary device current but this introduces a delay and the turn on becomes slower. Turn off for both the devices is limited by the recombination lifetime which is around approximately 1 10 ns for moderately doped GaAs.

Superjunction charge balance in the OTPT type power device for example ensures flat electric field in the completely depleted drift region see at the instant of breakdown. This enhances the breakdown voltage for the same device area and thus keeps specific on state resistance low. The following charge balance condition needs to be satisfied for the highest breakdown voltage 1 

If the superjunction condition is satisfied by controlling the thickness and doping density of the epitaxial layers then the breakdown voltage becomes almost independent of GaAs linear doping. Further the breakdown voltage becomes a linear function of the length of the drift region and can be extended indefinitely by increasing the drift length. Deviation from the optimum condition however may result in a decrease in the breakdown voltage. Sensitivity studies show that the decrease in breakdown voltage varies with the percentage charge imbalance. Positive negative imbalance denotes more P N type charge than N P type charge.

For commercial vertical power MOSFETs the relation between Vand R i.e. the silicon limit is given by R V 2 

For OTPT for example physics based analyses yield two transcendental equations which couple Vand Rthrough the common quantity L. They are as follows 

Equation 3 is obtained from the avalanche breakdown condition and GaAs impact ionization model. Equation 4 is obtained by the solution of one dimensional charge continuity equation. The common coupling term is L. In equation 4 Kand Kare constants that depend on doping density boundary conditions and mand mare given by

Turning now to a power device in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention includes two electrical terminals attached respectively to a source region and a drain region and an optical window . The power device has a vertical structure in which current flows vertically between the two terminals which are provided at the opposite sides of the power device in contrast to power devices that have the terminals and on the same side.

As with the lateral structure power devices the optical window also includes an N AlGaAs surface barrier layer provided substantially over an N drift region and a diffused P body region . An anti reflecting layer preferably of SiN and approximately 100 nm thick is provided over the N AlGaAs layer to minimize reflection of light incident on the anti reflecting layer . The thickness of the anti reflecting layer may change depending on the optical signal wavelength and the material of at least the surface barrier layer .

The N drift region is provided in an epitaxial layer of GaAs extending from the N AlGaAs surface barrier layer of the optical window to the drain region . The diffused P body region is provided between the source region and the GaAs layer and is realized by a zinc diffusion method. The N AlGaAs surface barrier layer is used to suppress Fermi pinning effects and surface recombination velocity effects which may degrade the overall device performance lowering the optical triggering efficiency. The surface barrier layer being transparent to the operating wavelength of the optical signals does not cause photogeneration.

When triggering light shines on the optical window electron hole pairs are created by photogeneration in the P body region . Photogenerated electrons form a channel through the P body region and connect the source region conductively to the drain region thereby starting a current flow between the drain region and the source region through the N drift region . This places the power device in an on state. A majority of the photogenerated holes diffuse to the N source region and get recombined with excess electrons there. Some carriers undergo surface recombination also. When the triggering light is removed the electrons in the P body region get recombined quickly with the excess holes in the P body region. The channel ceases to exist in the P body region and the device goes back to the off state.

The vertical structure device shown in generally exhibits a higher gain i.e. device current per unit photogenerated current compared to its lateral equivalent shown in . This is because the effective optical window area in the vertical structure is only A ZL where Z is the width of the device in the Z dimension along the line perpendicular to the plane of the paper and Lis the channel length. In the lateral structure the window area is A Z L L where Lis the drift region length.

On the other hand the lateral structure offers a parallel plate like P N junction which is theoretically a good junction profile to support reverse bias and ease of implementing superjunction SJ charge balancing by maintaining precise relation between the depth dand d and doping densities Nand N of GaAs and AlGaAs layers by one step epitaxial growth. This charge balance ensures that the full drift region remains depleted regardless of its doping level and results in high breakdown voltage which is linearly dependent on drift region length but independent of drift doping density. The SJ structure has been demonstrated to help power devices achieve higher breakdown voltage for same on state resistance.

While the vertical structure power device has been described with respect to GaAs as the primary material other materials such as silicon carbide SiC and indium nitride InN may also be used in the vertical structure power devices. For example the bandgap of InGaN can be tailored to any value between 0.7 eV that of pure InN and 3.2 eV that of pure GaN by varying indium content. At x 0.55 the bandgap corresponding to 800 850 nm wavelength is obtained. For pure InN 0.7 0.8 eV is obtained which corresponds to approximately 1.55 m wavelength the primary niche of optical communication.

Examples of the vertical structure power devices having other primary materials are shown in . The parts that are similar to those of the power device are given the same reference numbers and are not described. shows a vertical structure power device which includes an N drain region and an N drift region both formed of GaN. Alternatively the N drain region may be replaced with a P drain region. The power device also includes an InGaN optical absorption layer provided between the drift region and a GaN surface barrier layer which is provided underneath the SiN anti reflecting layer of the optical window .

In the power devices shown in the optical absorption layers are made of smaller bandgap material such as InGaN or Si and the layer forming the N drift regions are made of wider bandgap material such as GaN or SiC. The purpose of the optical absorption layers is to absorb optical signal of suitable wavelength approximately 800 850 nm for Si or 1350 1550 nm for InGaN which is transparent to the layer for the drift regions SiC or GaN . Therefore the optical absorption layers act as the optical triggering block whereas the drift region layers act as voltage blocking layers. If the power devices were made entirely of the material as in the drift regions then a shorter wavelength would have been required because of the higher bandgap of such material. Shorter wavelength light is difficult to produce in a controllable manner and to transport effectively over optical fiber. Thus the optical absorption layers facilitate the use of easily available longer wavelength light for triggering while maintaining the high voltage blocking capability of the power devices by using wide bandgap material in the drift regions .

Turning now to and in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a power device has a vertical structure and includes a P drain region and an N drift region both formed of SiC. The power device is further provided with a P body region which is also formed of SiC and extends over substantially the entire width of the power device .

The vertical structure optically triggered power devices described above may be implemented in an optically triggered power transistor OTPT or an optically gated bipolar transistor OGBT .

An issue may arise with regard to integrating optical triggering into a system whether the systems include direct optically triggered power devices such as those described herein or with respect to pre existing devices. Problems of scalability may arise for example with respect to voltage current materials and or frequencies. As one nonlimiting example it may be prohibitive e.g. expensive to provide an optically triggered power device with an optical trigger having a short wavelength.

It would be desirable to provide a more efficient triggering device and or a more versatile overall power system. It would also be desirable in certain power systems to provide a triggering device that is immune to electromagnetic effects. According to embodiments of the present invention such a triggering device can operate as a first stage with another device as a second stage to improve scalability and may be integrated with the second stage to provide a hybrid system or an all optical system.

Thus in addition to these variations in vertical or lateral embodiments where the device has only a single stage alternative embodiments of the present invention provide power systems including multiple stages. The multiple stages include at least a first stage and a second stage. The first stage is configured to receive an optical trigger and in turn provide an output signal for the second stage and the second stage is configured to activate in response to the output signal from the first stage. The output signal from the first stage to the second stage may be as nonlimiting examples a relatively lower voltage potential signal with respect to the main power device another optical signal e.g. of the same or different type of a different wavelength etc. or any of various other signals. If the triggering stage s include s an optical triggering device and the main power device stage s is are configured to receive an optical signal an all optical system can be provided. Alternatively if the main power device stage s is configured to operate in a manner other than optical then a hybrid system can be provided.

In this way a separate stage is provided to perform a trigger for any of various types or configurations of power devices overcoming limitations of certain conventional power systems. The triggering device can be tailored to provide a suitable trigger for the main power device in turn providing a cascading power system. The present invention is not to be limited to a single triggering stage and or main power device stage for a particular power system however as multiple triggering stages and or main power device stages and or multiple optical triggers or output signals may be used in a single system as desired.

The power system device structure can include multiple monolithically integrated stages according to embodiments of the present invention. Such a device structure can provide for example a single device having both a triggering stage and a main power device. However it is to be understood that in other embodiments the triggering stage s and main power device stage s can be separate as explained below.

For example given two stages a triggering stage and a main power device stage several variations are possible for multiple stage power systems such as the following illustrated with respect to monolithically integrated stages as nonlimiting examples 

a Both the triggering stage and the main power stage could be made of the same material for instance but not limited to Si GaAs SiC GaN etc. . Illustrations for different materials are shown in .

b The triggering stage could be made of different material than the main power device stage e.g. in a two stage cascaded device a first input triggering stage which directly accepts an optical signal could be made from a direct bandgap material like GaN or GaAs and the second or main power device stage which may be monolithically connected to the input stage could be made of SiC which is an indirect bandgap material . Illustrations are shown in .

c In view of b the optical triggering interface for the triggering stage could be sensitive to optical sources i.e. optical triggers of different wavelengths and wavelength bands depending on the type of the optical interface material. Illustration is shown in .

Each of these different stages can have the same or different voltage potential across the terminals of the device stage. Illustration is shown in where the left of the figure shows a same voltage potential while the right of the figure shows a different voltage potential.

Further there can be various possible implementation mechanisms for the triggering stage stage . Two general classifications for implementation will now be described. A first implementation triggering stage shown in uses a single optically activated structure and a passive element as a nonlimiting example a resistor used for discharging the gate of the main power device during turn off . The optically activated structure preferably is coupled directly to the main power device gate. In this example implementation the conductivity of the passive element does not change. The turn off speed of the main power device depends on this conductivity and so is somewhat limited by the choice of a particular passive element.

An alternative triggering stage implementation is shown in . A triggering stage according to this implementation uses two optically activated structures and one active element which is used for discharging the gate of the main power device during turn off . A top optically activated structure preferably is coupled directly to the main power device gate. A bottom optically activated structure is connected between the controlling terminal of the active element and the potential reference .

In the implementation shown in the conductivity of the active element switches between high and low. When light falls on the optically activated structures simultaneously such as in an example embodiment where a single monochromatic light source is used the top optically activated structure triggers the main power device to conductive state. This is the turn on phase. At the same time the bottom optically activated structure keeps the active element in off state that is very high resistivity state . When the light shuts off both of the optically activated structures go to off state and the active element goes to on state. This increases the conductivity of the active element significantly and the main power device discharges through this conductive path in a rapid fashion. The turn off speed of the main power device therefore can be higher than for the MPD shown in .

In example embodiments the optically activated structures for the devices shown in could be bipolar phototransistors whose base region will be illuminated by light. As a further example the active element in the device shown in could be a metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor MOSFET or a bipolar junction transistor BJT .

Further there are multiple possibilities for implementing an overall configuration for optically activated structures and the active element for the device shown in . As one possibility as shown in the structures and active element could be discrete semiconductor devices of same and or different structures based on same and or different material mutually coupled by external electrical connectors. Alternatively they could be monolithically integrated in the same semiconductor structure including uniform or different material regions.

A significant issue for particular embodiments of monolithic integration is the mutual isolation of the optically activated structures and the active element at all phases of operation. Various general methods of electrical isolation of multiple structures in a monolithic platform will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art. However because of the possibility of optical penetration into the isolating regions during turn on phase particular consideration should be given. For example if an optical signal generates electron hole carriers in the isolating region they will move under the influence of existing electric field created by the medium voltage potential and the neighboring structures would not remain electrically isolated.

Using the triggering stage implementation shown in as a nonlimiting example two example embodiments for monolithic implementation for a triggering stage are shown in . In the monolithic implementation shown in insulator filled trenches in an active semiconductor region grown on insulator thin film isolate the structures including the optically activated structures and the active element . As a nonlimiting example silicon on insulator SOI with silicon dioxide filled trenches may be used. In the embodiment shown in even if the optical trigger signal penetrates and generates carriers in the substrate the optically activated structures and the active element would be mutually isolated because these photogenerated carriers cannot move through the insulator region.

In the second example monolithic implementation shown in a reverse biased P N junction is provided made from a higher bandgap material as an isolation mechanism. Isolation trenches are also provided. In this embodiment the reverse biased P N junction which isolates the optically activated structures and the active element does not generate any electrical carriers when light falls on the overall device because the energy bandgap of that region would be designed for a higher value than the energy of individual photons by choosing a particular material type and composition.

The performance parameters of such devices in their various embodiments may include on state drop rise and fall time and turn on and turn off delay times. These parameters can be dynamically controlled by varying the intensity wavelength or switching times of the optical triggering signal. In a power system operation the overall system efficiency largely depends on the sum of the individual switch losses which vary with the output load levels frequency of the switching of the device and input source of the power system variations. Therefore the optical triggering parameters can be dynamically controlled depending on the system output load level so as to minimize the overall device loss and to optimize the system efficiency. Moreover it is the rapid switching event of power devices in a power electronics system that produces fast changes in voltage and current i.e. dv dt and di dt and contributes significantly to the conducted and radiated EMI signature of the power electronics system. Because the switching dynamics of the power device can be modulated by optical trigger the EMI signature of the power electronics system can also be controlled by varying the properties of the optical trigger.

Further embodiments of the present invention according to the above principles are now described. However it is to be understood that the devices and systems shown are merely examples according to the present invention and the invention is not to be limited to the particular example configurations shown and described herein. Given the various selections possible under embodiments of the present invention combinations are possible beyond those specifically shown and described herein and these additional combinations are considered to be within the scope of the present invention.

In a first type of embodiment shown in a main power device MPD includes only the main optically triggered power device which receives an optical control signal S through an optical window and is being controlled both turn on and turn off by this signal. Specific illustrations of device structures for this embodiment are shown in .

In a second type of embodiment shown in the MPD receives one optical control signal S for turn on and turn off as with the first type of embodiment in through a first optical window and a second optical signal S through another optical window . The second signal does not take part in actively controlling the device connection state but is used to dynamically modulate its electrical performance parameters such as on state resistance or turn on and turn off time. For example the second light could be of different wavelength to excite certain trap centers in the bandgap of the material used to fabricate the device which modulates the recombination lifetime of the material. This results in significant changes in the device s optical gain on state resistance and switching speed especially turn off time . Another way the second optical signal can modulate the potential barrier of a particular P N junction present in the device structure is to alter device on state resistance or optical gain. The signals Sand Scan differ in intensity and or wavelength.

In a third type of embodiment shown by example in the overall device includes apart from the MPD a triggering stage that comprises an optical amplifier structure which is optically coupled to the main power device. The function of this amplifier is to receive a low intensity optical signal and amplify it to feed to the main power device . This way a low optical power source e.g. LED or low power laser may be used to trigger the device thereby reducing the overall power electronic system cost and driver complexity.

In a fourth type of embodiment shown by example in the overall device includes apart from the MPD a triggering stage that comprises a wavelength converter structure that is optically coupled to the main power device. The function of the amplifier is to receive an optical signal of a certain wavelength and convert it to an optical signal of a different wavelength to feed to the main power device . This way an optical source of for example industry standard wavelength range 800 850 nm or 1350 1550 nm can be used to directly control the main power device made of wide bandgap material such as SiC or GaN eliminating the need to have expensive and complex short wavelength 300 400 nm optical sources.

It will be appreciated that the fourth type of embodiment is different from the device structures shown in etc. The device structures in these figures include wide bandgap material and a smaller bandgap material to enable the device to be triggered by a long wavelength signal. The device due to the presence of smaller bandgap material absorbs long wavelength light. By contrast the overall device according to the fourth type of embodiment converts the incoming optical signal to a short wavelength and the MPD absorbs the short wavelength light.

Apart from the triggering operation optical sensing operation can also be integrated for each power device. A sensed variable for instance could be voltage across the device or current through the device. The output sensed signal of this type of device is an optical signal which travels through a fiber to reach the controller driver stage. The variations of the fiber connection to a single device could be for example 

a One fiber for each sensed variable of a device and one for the triggering of the device. In general there could be more than one fiber for triggering signal s for a device with multiple input ports as illustrated in . Illustration for a single port device is shown in .

b One integrated fiber for all the sensed variables of the device and one for the triggering of the device. Illustration for a single port device is shown in .

c One single fiber for sensed variables as well as for the triggering of the device. Illustration for a single port device is shown in .

In a power system including multiple devices for any of the three mechanisms in routing of the optical signal can be accomplished through multiple devices. Individual devices may for example have built in intelligence that can identify whether a particular optical triggering sensing signal is intended or generated for by itself or some other device and depending on that identification route the signal through the entire switch network of the power system. Illustrations of routing of the optical signals for all three mechanisms are shown in . shows the routing for the device corresponding to the case of where three fibers are used two for sensing voltage and current and one for triggering. shows the routing for the device corresponding to the case of where two fibers are used one for sensing voltage and current in an integrated manner and the other one for triggering. shows the routing for the device corresponding to the case of where only one fiber is used for sensing as well as for triggering.

As illustrated in when light falls on the base region of the driver transistor optical power is absorbed to generate electron hole pairs. The holes provide the base drive for the driver transistor which turns on given a positive potential difference between collector and emitter terminals. Subsequently the main transistor supplied with the required base drive by the current flowing through the driver transistor turns on to carry the bulk of the total device current. In the absence of light carriers in the driver base region recombine and consequently the main transistor shuts off because its base drive is withdrawn.

Cascaded devices operate at a slower speed compared to single devices but keeping in view the requirement of moderate switching speeds the cascaded structure is advantageous for significantly reducing the triggering optical power requirement owing to its high electrical gain. Higher gain of the two individual transistors is enhanced in an example embodiment by employing a wide collector design to support the forward voltage. In the blocking state the depletion layer primarily extends into the low doped drift region acting as a collector. This allows the transistor base regions to be thin and achieve a higher gain. Using wide bandgap SiC as the material for example this device structure achieves high breakdown voltage capability with a smaller drift thickness than what would be required for traditional pulsed power optical switch material such as Si or GaAs. This lowers the conduction loss and increases the electrical efficiency of the device.

The example SiC OGHSS was simulated to generate 1 kA pulses while blocking 1 kV in the off state at a repetition rate of 1 kHz triggered by a 100 W 100 ns pulse of 350 nm wavelength optical power drive as shown in . illustrates the turn on phase of the device which attains the peak current value at a fairly high di dt rate of 88.2 kA s requiring 9.2 ns of turn on time. The turn off is 290 ns because the natural recombination process of the excess minority carriers inside the device takes more time. The turn off time period is depicted in .

Table 1 presents the switching and the conduction losses associated with the device operating at 1 kHz with a duty cycle of 0.1 for a peak current of 1 kA. A major portion of the overall loss is attributed to the turn off losses as expected considering the above described switching performance of the device .

1 Low resistivity 4H SiC N substrate An N substrate of 4H polytype is used for the SiC OGHSS. This is governed by the rationale of a commercial availability of low resistivity N substrate as compared to highly resistive P substrate b low resistivity of 4H SiC substrate compared to 6H SiC substrate and c higher ambipolar mobility in the drift region for 4H SiC compared to 6H SiC.

2 Lower probability of electron induced avalanche breakdown For 4H SiC although the electron mobility is much higher compared to hole quite unexpectedly the impact ionization coefficient is lower for electrons. Hence due to optically initiated conductivity modulation governed by electrons SiC OGHSS exhibits lower probability of avalanche breakdown because of low impact ionization rate of the electrons.

3 Higher quality of emitter ohmic contact One of the main challenges in the fabrication of SiC power devices is high quality ohmic contact to P type material. Good P type contacts are formed by annealing platinum above 1000 C. on 4H SiC. However conventional electrically triggered IGBT faces the problem of degradation of MOS gate characteristic upon exposing the wafer above 900 C. This limitation can be circumvented in the SiC OGHSS because of optical gate structure which does not need any physical electrode or gate oxide.

4 Vertical photogenerated channel or optical trench Existing art highlights the advantage of using a trench gate structure instead of a conventional planar gate structure. Although the trench gate entails shorter electron bypass length and higher cell density per unit chip area its main disadvantage is the high localized electric field at the corners of the trench bottom. The SiC OGHSS emulates the trench gate structure by creating a vertical photogenerated channel but does not limit the breakdown voltage capability of the device by creating any localized high electric field. This also allows the use of epitaxial growth technique to realize P base for the driver structure as compared to deep implantation requiring very high temperature prolonged anneal required for a planar gate structure.

5 System level benefits of SiC OGHSS based systems a Improved Gate Isolation there is complete isolation between the gate driver and the device and hence the power stage . As such very high di dt and dv dt have no impact on SiC OGHSS b Simple Design for two and higher level ET switching converters different designs of low and high side drivers are required. For a SiC OGHSS based converter the designs of high and low side drivers remain the same leading to simplicity of overall design enhanced reliability of the system and monolithic integration c Higher Switching Frequency as the switching frequency of an ETD increases parasitic oscillations may be induced in the driver circuit owing to coupling effects between the device capacitance and the parasitic inductance of the gate connection and also due to transmission line effects. With an OGHSS such possibilities do not arise d Higher Reliability the SiC OGHSS based power system does not suffer from gate driver failure due to short circuiting and e Increased Integration optical switching enhances the possibility of system integration by mitigating electromagnetic interference effects.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

