---

title: Electronic profile development, storage, use, and systems therefor
abstract: Examples of the present invention include profiling systems that store, manage, and utilize profile information to take predictive or deterministic action. Embodiments of the invention allow the profiling system to be used as a trusted intermediary where the profile owning entity controls access to their profile information across their network of devices and services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08255396&OS=08255396&RS=08255396
owner: Atigeo LLC
number: 08255396
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081212
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 61 067 162 filed Feb. 25 2008 entitled Platforms systems and methods for data handling which application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of this invention relate to computing systems and software for the collection development analysis and use of profile information.

Current systems for providing content items to users vary in their approach to user information for example in their ability to obtain meaningful information about their users and the extent to which their users control access to and use of their own information.

Some systems simply decide what may be appropriate for or desirable for users based on a single known data point about the user. For example location based services receive location information from a user s mobile device and identify nearby businesses gas stations or ATMs. Other location relevant information may be provided as well such as local weather reports. However the information is selected based only on the user s location. The system has no way of knowing if any of the identified businesses or facts are more relevant for the particular user than any other.

Some systems guess what may be appropriate or desirable for users based on a single action. For example contextual advertising systems may provide an advertisement for a web page based in part on a target word in the web page. These systems have no way of knowing if the advertisement is actually relevant to the user viewing the web page the advertisement is chosen simply because it matches a target word on the web page. Some systems decide what products may be desirable for a user based on ratings of other similar products provided by the user. For example some recommendation services receive limited user ratings or implicit ratings based on views or purchases of a certain kind of product books or movies for example and recommend other books or movies that the user may like based on similarity to items favorably rated such as authors themes actors directors genres and the like.

Location based systems contextual advertising and recommendation systems are forced to decide what things may be relevant to them on the basis of the limited known information about a user. These systems may not achieve a high success rate of delivering information that is truly relevant to the user because the recommendations are based on limited available information explicitly shared with the system. The system does not know any other information about the user including information collected by or shared with other systems. These systems however may allow the user to have control over their personal information. That is the user has shared only a limited amount of personal information with the system.

Other systems may make more intelligent recommendations for users based on more detailed information about the user but these systems may suffer from user privacy problems. For example deep packet inspection technologies can analyze information sent to and from a user on a broadband network. By inspecting all information sent or received by a user over time the Internet service provider can develop a clearer picture of the user and what may be relevant to them. However this approach raises serious privacy concerns because the user may not know that their personal information is being collected and does not control to whom the information is provided.

These previous systems also suffer from being proprietary to the particular website or electronic service accessed. For example web sites such as Facebook Ticketmaster and ESPN maintain some profile information associated with their users. However the profile information stored by the user at one site is generally inaccessible to others depriving the user of its benefit as they travel to other websites. Allowing one site to share information with others again raises privacy concerns. It often may be prohibitive for one system to obtain the necessary user consent to share profile information with another system.

Certain details are set forth below to provide a sufficient understanding of embodiments of the invention. However it will be clear to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without various of these particular details. In some instances well known computer system components network architectures control signals and software operations have not been shown in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the described embodiments of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention provide a profiling system that may obtain expand manage store and use electronic profiles. Electronic profiles described herein include data structures containing information about an entity all or a portion of which may be used as input to an analysis engine that may take a predictive or deterministic action based in part on the electronic profile. As will be described below an entity may control the use of all or portions of their electronic profile allowing it to be used in part or completely to score and select content responsive to requests from particular entities. The analysis engine uses information from the electronic profile to take a predictive or deterministic action for example as will be described further below suggesting products services content organizations people or other items that may be particularly relevant for the profile owning entity. The entity may be a person or a group of people. The entity may also be a segment of people that share a common attribute. The entity may also be a thing such as but not limited to a product place or item of content.

An example of a system according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown in . A profiling system includes a profile management system a disambiguation engine and an analysis engine . These individual components will be discussed further below. The profiling system generally includes a processor and memory to store computer readable instructions that may cause the processor to implement the functionalities of the profile management system disambiguation engine and analysis engine described below. One or more of these engines may be implemented on a server or other computer or computing device. Although shown as a unitary system the profiling system may be implemented as distributed across a plurality of computing devices with portions of the processing performed by each of the devices.

A user device which may be implemented as any device with suitable processing memory and communication capabilities to implement a profile management interface is in communication with the profiling system . The user device may accordingly be but is not limited to a personal computer kiosk cell phone personal digital assistant television set top box or music player. The user device may be specific to a single user or may be used by multiple users such as in the case of a publicly accessible workstation or kiosk. In some embodiments the user need not be a physical person but may be a representative of a group of people or may be another automated process or computer program performing a profile entry functionality. Communication between the profiling system and the user device may occur through any mechanism. In some embodiments the profiling system may be implemented completely or partially as a web service that may communicate with the user device over the Internet using http in either a secure or unsecured manner as desired. The profile management interface enables communication with the profile management system to establish augment or otherwise manipulate profile information pertaining to an entity represented by a user using the user device . The disambiguation engine may receive profile information supplied from the user device and further process the information to reduce ambiguity in the information provided as will be described further below. The processing to reduce ambiguity may occur dynamically through interaction with the user device. Any number of user devices may be in communication with the profiling system including the user devices and shown in .

Profile information received from the user device and other sources is processed by the profile management system and disambiguation engine to generate electronic profiles that are stored in the electronic profile storage . As will be described further below the electronic profiles may be database structures and accordingly may be stored in a database as shown in . However any type of electronic storage may be used to store electronic profiles and the profiles may be stored in any number of distinct storage locations and individual profiles may be distributed across a plurality of storage locations. Electronic profiles will be discussed in greater detail below.

A content provider or other entity seeking to interact with profile owning entities may communicate with the profiling system using a provider device . As with the user device any device with suitable processing memory and communication capabilities to implement a content storing interface may be used. Accordingly the provider device may be implemented as but is not limited to a server computer personal computer cell phone personal digital assistant or kiosk. The provider device may communicate with the profiling system in any manner wired or wireless.

The provider device is in communication with content storage . The content storage is any suitable electronic memory storage that contains information the provider may want to share with one or more profile owning entities. The content storage may be but is not limited to news or entertainment content such as text files or media files databases advertisements social contacts customer relationship management information enterprise resource management information catalog data inventory images movies charity information sports information or combinations of these types of information. Any number of provider devices may be in communication with the profiling system including the provider devices and . The additional provider devices may have their own associated content storage or may be in communication with the content storage .

The provider device implements a content scoring interface that may be implemented as a processor and a memory storing computer readable instructions causing the processor to implement the content scoring interface functionality described. Content scoring will be described further below but as a general overview the content scoring interface makes some or all of the content in content storage accessible to the analysis engine . The analysis engine may then score content items based on one or more of the electronic profiles stored in electronic profile storage . The output of this process may be provided to the content scoring interface in a variety of ways including numerical scores assigned to content in the content storage based on its relevance to the electronic profile or profiles consulted or a ranked list of content in the content storage listed in ascending or descending relevance order or an indication of content items having a relevance score above or below a threshold relevance score.

An overview of the use of the system according to an embodiment of the invention is now described although further details are provided below. An entity may communicate profile information to the profiling system through the profile management interface in communication with the profile management system . The profile management system and the disambiguation engine may refine and expand the profile information provided. An electronic profile of the entity is stored in electronic profile storage . While a single electronic profile storage location is shown in the electronic profile may in some embodiments be distributed across a plurality of storage locations including across a plurality of storage locations associated with different physical electronic devices that may be used by an entity. Accordingly in some embodiments only a portion of the entity s profile may be located on the electronic profile storage . The entity may then request information from a provider. In the user device is shown as communicating with the provider device . While the entity and the provider may communicate in some embodiments as shown in using the same devices containing the profile management interface and the content scoring interface in other embodiments the entity and the provider may communicate using different devices. On receiving a request for information from an entity the provider device through the content scoring interface requests an analysis from the analysis engine . The analysis engine accesses the entity s electronic profile stored in electronic profile storage and provided the entity has chosen to allow all or a portion of its profile information to be used responsive to a request from the provider scores the content in the content storage in accordance with the accessed electronic profile. The resultant scores are provided to the provider device through the content scoring interface . Having received the scores the provider may then communicate content to the entity based on the scores.

In this manner the profiling system may serve as a trusted intermediary between an entity and a content provider. The content provider receives an analysis of its content based on an entity s profile information without actually receiving the profile information itself. Being able to control the accessibility of the profile information and knowing content providers may not obtain the information directly entities may share a greater amount of information with the profiling system . Further through the profile management system and disambiguation engine the electronic profiles may be more structured while being easily created than those created purely through freeform user input. The disambiguation engine may suggest related terms for addition to an entity s profile that the entity may confirm or deny.

Having described an overview of an example of a system according to the present invention examples of electronic profiles will now be discussed. Electronic profiles described herein include data structures containing information about an entity all or a portion of which may be used as input to an analysis engine that may take a predictive or deterministic action based in part on the electronic profile. For example recall electronic profiles may be stored in the electronic profile storage and used by the analysis engine to identify content that may be relevant to the entity associated with the electronic profile.

Examples of electronic profiles accordingly include data structures. Any type of data structure may be used that may store the electronic profile information described below. In one embodiment the electronic profile is stored in a relational database. illustrates a portion of a conceptual database schema for an electronic profile according to an embodiment of the present invention. The database schema is organized as a star schema but other organizations may be employed in other embodiments. The schema includes several tables relating aspects of the electronic profile to one another that provide information about the entity owning the electronic profile. The database constructed according to the schema may be stored on generally any suitable electronic storage medium. In some embodiments portions of an electronic profile may be distributed amongst several electronic storage media including among storage media associated with different electronic devices used by an entity.

Information stored in an electronic profile about an entity may include but is not limited to any combination of the following data preferences possessions social connections images permissions recommendation preferences location role and context. These aspects of an entity may be used in any combination by an analysis engine to take predictive or deterministic action as generally described above. Examples of aspects of profile information included in the electronic profile will now be described further.

The electronic profile represented by the schema includes data about an entity in a user table . While the term user is used in to describe tables and other aspects of the profile the term is not meant to restrict profiles to individuals or human representatives. The information contained in an electronic profile is generally information about an entity associated with the electronic profile which may also be referred to as the entity owning the electronic profile. The entity may be a person or a group of people. The entity may also be a segment of people that share a common attribute. The entity may also be a thing such as but not limited to a product place business or item of content. The entity may be a segment of things that share a common attribute. The term user in simply refers to the entity associated with the profile.

Data about the entity stored in the user table . The table may include a column for each type of data. For example data associated with UserID includes name Bob Smith address 555 Park Lane age 35 and gender Male of the entity. Data associated with UserID includes height 5 10 weight 180 and gender Female . Data associated with UserID includes financial information and an address 329 Whistle Way . Data about an entity stored in the user table may generally include factual or demographic information such as but not limited to height address clothing sizes contact information financial information credit card number ethnicity weight and gender. Any combination of data types may be stored. The user table also includes a user ID . The user ID may be generated by a system generating or using the electronic profile or may be associated with or identical to a user ID already owned by the profile owning entity such as an email account or other existing account of the entity. Each entity having an electronic profile may have a corresponding user table such as the user table stored in the electronic profile storage of .

Preferences of an entity may also be stored in the entity s electronic profile. Preferences generally refer to subjective associations between the entity and various words that may represent things people or groups. Each preference of an individual represents that association I like cats for example may be one preference. Preferences may be stored in any suitable manner. In the schema of preferences are stored by use of the user preferences table the user preference terms table the preference terms table and the preference qualifiers table which will be described further below. The four tables used to represent preference in is exemplary only and preferences may be stored in other ways in other embodiments such that a profile owning entity is associated with their preferences.

Referring again to the user table of an entity is associated with a user preferences table . The user preferences table includes userIDs of entities having profiles in the electronic profile storage and lists individual preference IDs associated with each userID. For example the UserID is associated with SPORTS PREFERENCE and SPORTS TRAVEL PREFERENCE in the example shown in . Although shown as including only a few user IDs the user preferences table may generally include a list of multiple user IDs known to the profiling system and a list of individual preference IDs associated with the userIDs. In this manner an entity s preferences may be associated with the data related to the entity. Generally any string may be used to represent a preference ID. Also included in the user preference table are qualifier IDs that are used to record an association with terms contained in the preference. The qualifiers will be discussed further below.

Each preference ID has an associated entry in a user preference terms table . The user preference terms table contains a list of term IDs associated with each user preference ID. In for example the preference ID SPORTS PREFERENCE is shown associated with TermID and TermID. Any string may generally be used to represent the term IDs. Each TermID in turn is associated with an entry in a preference term table . The preference term table lists the actual terms represented by the TermID. A term may generally be any string and is generally a unit of meaning which may be one or more words or other representation. As shown in the preference terms table indicates the TermID is associated with the term Major League Baseball. Although only one term is shown associated with the TermID any number of terms may be so associated.

Accordingly as described above an entity may be associated with preferences that ultimately contain one or more terms. However the relationship between the entity and the terms has not yet been described. An entity s preferences may include a scale of likes dislikes or both of the entity. Further an entity s preferences may include information about what the entity is or is not does or does not do in certain circumstances. In the schema of each preference may be associated with one or more qualifiers as indicated by an association between the preference ID and a qualifier ID in the user preferences table . A term associated with each qualifier ID is then stored in a preference qualifiers table . Qualifiers describe the relationship of the preference terms to the profile owning entity. Examples of qualifiers include like and dislike to describe a positive or negative association with a preference respectively. Other qualifiers may be used including when when not never always does does not is and is not to make more complex associations between preference words and the profile owning entity. As shown in the qualifier QualID represents the association like and QualID represents the association dislike .

Accordingly the structure shown in encodes two preferences for an entity represented by UserID. SPORTS PREFERENCE indicates UserID likes Major League Baseball and the Seattle Mariners. SPORTS PREFERENCE indicates UserID likes Fenway Park. Similarly UserID has SPORTS PREFERENCE which indicates UserID dislikes Major League Baseball and the New York Yankees. UserID has SPORTS PREFERENCE which indicates UserID likes Derek Jeter.

The manner of storing preferences using the tables described in may aid in efficient storage and analysis by allowing for example multiple termIDs to be associated with multiple user preference IDs without requiring storing the individual terms multiple times in the profile storage of . Instead multiple associations may be made between the termID and multiple user preferences. However as discussed generally any data structure may be used to encode an electronic profile of an entity. In some embodiments a profile may be represented and optionally stored as a vector or index. The vector may uniquely identify an entity associated with the profile. For example the profile vector may represent a plurality of axes each axis representing a term word or user device and the vector include bits associated with each term word and user device to be included in the profile.

Further information regarding an entity may be stored in an entity s electronic profile including possessions images social connections permissions recommendation preferences location roles and context. Although not shown in these further aspects may be stored as additional star tables associated with the central user table . Possessions of the entity may include things the entity owns or has access to including but not limited to gaming systems cell phones computers cars clothes bank or other accounts subscriptions and cable or other service providers.

Social connections of the entity may include but are not limited to connections to friends family neighbors co workers organizations membership programs information about the entity s participation in social networks such as Facebook Myspace or LinkedIn or businesses an entity is affiliated with.

Permissions for accessing all or a portion of the electronic profile are described further below but may include an indication of when an entity s profile information may be used. For example an entity may authorize their profile information to be used by the profiling system responsive only to requests from certain entities and not responsive to requests from other entities. The permissions may specify when how how often or where the profiling system may access the entity s profile responsive to a request from a specific entity or type of entity. For example an entity may specify that sports websites may obtain information about content relevant to the entity s profile but that banks may not. As generally described above only the profiling system has direct access to the stored profile information and the profile information is not generally shared with content providers that may request scoring of their content based on the entity s profile. However the scoring may only be undertaken in some embodiments when the entity has granted permission for their profile to be used to provide information to the particular content provider.

Recommendation preferences may include whether the entity would like or accept recommendations for additional information to be added to their electronic profile or for data or possessions. The recommendation preferences may specify which entities may make recommendations for the electronic profile owning entity and under what conditions.

Location information of the entity may include a current location determined in a variety of levels of granularity such as but not limited to GPS coordinate country state city region store name church hotel restaurant airport other venue street address or virtual location. In some embodiments location information may be obtained by analyzing an IP address associated with an entity.

Roles of the entity may include categorizations of the entity s relationships to others or things including but not limited to father mother daughter son friend worker brother sister sports fan movie fan wholesaler distributor retailer and virtual persona such as in a gaming environment or other site .

Context of the entity may include an indication of activities or modes of operation of the entity including what the entity is doing in the past present or future such as shopping searching working driving or processes the entity is engaged in such as purchasing a vacation.

As will be described further below all or a portion of the electronic profile may be used as an input to an analysis engine. In some embodiments there may be insufficient data about an individual to have a meaningful output of the analysis engine based on their electronic profile. Accordingly in some embodiments the profile of a segment sharing one or more common attributes with the individual may be used as input to the analysis engine instead of or in addition to the individual s profile. The profile of a segment may also be used to select content that may be relevant for that segment of entities and pass content to entities that share one or more attributes with the segment.

Having described exemplary mechanisms for storing profile information and the content of electronic profiles exemplary methods and systems for obtaining profile information will now be discussed. Profile information may generally be obtained from any source including from a representative of the profile owning entity other individuals or from collecting data about the profile owning entity as they interact with other electronic systems. In some embodiments referring back to profile information may be directly entered by a profile owning entity or their representative from the user device using the profile management interface .

The profile management interface may take any form suitable for receiving profile information from a profile owning entity or their representative. In one embodiment the profile management interface includes an application operating on the user device . The application on the user device may communicate with the profiling system . In one embodiment the disambiguation engine analysis engine or both may be implemented as an application programming interface API and the application operating on the user device may call one or more APIs operated by the profiling system . In some embodiments the application on the user device that is in communication with the profiling system operates in an Internet browser window and one embodiment of the profile management interface is shown in operating in a browser window of a display of the user device. A profile owning entity or a representative of that entity may enter profile information into the preference entry field . Prior to entering information the entity may have identified themselves to the profiling system by for example entering a username password or both or other methods of authentication may be used including identification of one or more user devices and their context associated with the entity. When entering profile information into the preference entry field the entity may also select a qualifier associated with the profile information using a qualifier selector . The qualifier selector which may be unique for the entity in some embodiments may include a drop down menu buttons depicting different qualifiers or other mechanisms. For example the qualifier selector may include a button for Like and one for Dislike so an entity could specify that they like or dislike the terms they provide in the preference entry field . The entity may submit the entered profile information to the profile management system of the profiling system in . Information may be submitted for example by pressing an enter key or clicking on an enter button displayed in the browser window . The information may be communicated to the profile management system using any suitable communication protocol including http.

Accordingly profile owning entities may provide profile information to the profile management system . The profile information may be directly captured I like cats in the case of a preference or I am a father in the case of a role. However in some instances the provided profile information may be ambiguous such as I like the giants. It may be unclear whether the profile owning entity intends to indicate a preference for the New York Giants the San Francisco Giants or large people.

The profile information submitted by an entity may accordingly be submitted to the disambiguation engine of . As will be described further below the disambiguation engine may provide a list of relevant terms that may be displayed in the disambiguation selection area of . An entity may then select the relevant terms from the disambiguation list for addition to the profile being managed. Alternatively or in addition an entity may select or otherwise indicate such as by right clicking one or more terms displayed anywhere in the browser window or more generally displayed by the user device that a term should be added to the entity s profile. Alternatively or in addition embodiments of a profiling system may identify an action of the entity and automatically add a related term to the electronic profile of the entity. After processing by the analysis engine which will be described further below relevant content may be displayed in the content area . In some embodiments the content area may not be provided on a same screen with the profile management interface and in some embodiments the content area need not be on the same user device. That is while profile information may be entered or revised on one device content displayed or provided based on that profile information may be provided on a different device in some embodiments.

Accordingly the disambiguation engine functions to select terms based on preference information input by an entity that may also be relevant to the entity and may be considered for addition to the entity s electronic profile. In one embodiment the disambiguation engine may simply provide a list of all known terms containing the entity s input. For example if the entity entered giants a dictionary or sports listing of all phrases or teams containing the word giants may be provided. While this methodology may accurately capture additional profile information it may be cumbersome to implement on a larger scale.

Accordingly the disambiguation engine may function along with an indexing engine as shown in . Generally the indexing engine accesses one or more content sources to analyze the content stored in the accessed content sources and generate an indexed content store . Although shown as separate storage the indexed content store may include indexing information stored along with the content from the content sources or may include only index records related to the content in the content sources . The index information generally includes information about the relative frequency of terms in the content from the content sources . In this manner as will be described further below terms may be identified that frequently appear along with a query term or in a same pattern as a query table. The disambiguation engine may then access the indexed content store to more efficiently identify terms related to preferences expressed by an entity. The expressed preference may be stored in one storage location or distributed across multiple storage locations.

The indexing engine may generally use any methodology to index documents from the content sources . The indexing engine generally includes a processor and memory encoded with computer readable instructions causing the processor to implement one or more of the functionalities described. The processor and memory may in some embodiments be shared with those used to implement the disambiguation engine analysis engine or combinations thereof. In one embodiment a vector space representation of documents from the content sources may be generated by the indexing engine . A vector representation of each document may be generated containing elements representing each term in the group of terms represented by all documents in the content sources used. The vector may include a term frequency inverse document frequency measurement for the term. An example of a method that may be executed by the indexing engine is shown in . further demonstrates an example in which an indexed content store may be created specific to a particular category. In some embodiments however the indexed content store may be generalized to one or more categories. However in embodiments where the indexed content store is specific to a single category of information it may be advantageous to provide several content stores which may be physically stored in the same or different media each containing indexed content for a specific category. In this manner the indexing performed by the indexing engine will be specific to the category of information and may in some cases enable greater relevance matching than querying a general content store.

Proceeding with reference to the indexing engine may receive a list of category specific expert content . The expert content may for example include a group of content in a particular category that may be considered representative of content in the category using for example the Wikipedia Commons data set or any other collection of information regarding a particular category . The indexing engine locates the category specific content in the list over the Internet or other digital source of category specific content . The source of category specific content may be located in a single storage medium or distributed among several storage mediums accessible to the indexing engine over the Internet or other communication mechanisms.

The indexing engine extracts the text from the expert content and may perform a variety of filtering procedures such as word normalization dictionary look up and common English term removal . During word normalization tenses or variations of the same word are grouped together. During dictionary look up meanings of words can be extracted. During common English term removal common words such as and or the may be removed and not further processed. Grammar sentence structure paragraph structure and punctuation may also be discarded. The indexing engine may then perform vector space word frequency decomposition of the extracted text from each document. The use of the term document herein is not meant to limit the processing of actual text documents. Rather the term document refers to each content unit accessed by the indexing engine such as a computer file and may have generally any length.

During the decomposition each document may be rated based on the term frequency TF of the document. The term frequency describes the proportion of terms in the document that are unique. The term frequency may be calculated by the number of times the term appears in the document divided by the number of unique terms in the document. A vector of term frequencies may be generated by the indexing engine to describe each document the vector having elements representing a term frequency for each term contained in the entire content store analyzed.

The vector representing each document may also contain an inverse document frequency IDF measure that reflects how often the term is used across all documents in the content store and therefore a measure of how distinctive the term may be to specific documents. The IDF may be calculated as the log of the number of documents containing the term divided by the number of documents in the content store.

Accordingly a term frequency inverse document frequency TF IDF score for a term and a document within may be determined by multiplying the term frequency value for the term in the document and the inverse document frequency score for the term in the content store. In this manner terms having a high TF IDF score may be more representative of the document content store or both than those having a low TF IDF score which may be ubiquitous terms throughout the content store such as the term the or and .

In some embodiments a Kullback Leibler Divergence Dmay also be included in a vector representation of a document. Dmay provide a measure of how close a document is to a query generally how much common information there is between the query and the document. Dis a measure of a distance between two different probability distributions one representing the distribution of query terms and the other representing the distribution of terms in the document. Dmay be calculated as 

where p is the distribution of terms in the document q is the distribution of query terms and i represents each term. The distribution of terms in the document may be a vector with entries for each term in a content store where the entries are weighted according to the frequency of each term in the document. The distribution of query terms may be a vector with entries for each term in a content store where the entries are weighted according to the frequency of each term in the query.

Accordingly using TF IDF Kullback Leibler Divergence other methods of document relevance measurements or combinations thereof the indexed content store of contains one or more content indexes representing a measure of the importance of various terms to each analyzed document.

Having described the indexing of documents a process for disambiguating a preference by the disambiguation engine using the indexed content store is illustrated in . An entity declares a preference for example by entry into the preference entry field of . The disambiguation engine then selects an expert content store to query using the declared preference. The selection may be made in a variety of ways. In some embodiments a single content store is used and no selection need be made. In other embodiments the disambiguation engine receives contextual information about the entity entering preference information and the contextual information is used to select the expert content store. For example in one embodiment the disambiguation engine receives information that the entity entering profile information is doing so from a sports related website and accordingly an expert sports content store may be selected.

Documents in the expert content store are rated as described above based on their relevance to individual terms. In some embodiments the rating is conducted once the preference is entered while in others the already stored vectors containing the measurements are accessed. A set of most relevant documents to the expressed preference may be identified. The most relevant documents may be identified by calculating a relevance number for each document based on the preference terms. A relevance number represents the relevancy of each document to the preference using the entered preference terms. Embodiments of the relevance number use a 0 100 scale and may accommodate a multi term preference. In other embodiments other scales or ranges may be used for the relevance number including 0 10 or negative numbers may be used. Negative relative numbers may be used in some embodiments to express scores relative to profile aspects an entity has provided a negative grammar for such as dislike or not . The relevance number for a single term may generally be calculated as a normalized TF.IDF value. In one embodiment the calculation may be made by subtracting a minimum TF.IDF value for all terms in the indexed content store from the TF.IDF value of the term and dividing the result by the difference between the maximum TF.IDF value for all terms in the indexed content store in the minimum TF.IDF value for all terms in the indexed content store. For multiple terms in a preference the relevance number of each document may be given as 

NTerms is the number of terms in the query. The relevance number accordingly is a sum of the relevance numbers for each term in the query divided by the number of terms. In this manner the relevance number represents a normalization of term by term relevance scores for individual terms. In this manner the relevance number is based in part on the TF IDF value for that term but may be normalized with the maximum and minimum TF IDF values for that term across all documents in a content store or other set. The relevance number calculated as above is accordingly a number between 0 and 100. The Kullback Leibler Divergence D may also be used as a relevance number to score content items from a content store or across multiple content stores. In the case of D a lower Dnumber indicates a more relevant content item as it may indicate the information space between the item and the preference is small .

While in some embodiments the calculation of relevance numbers may not change over time as the profiling system operates in some embodiments relevance numbers or the method for calculating relevance numbers may be modified in a variety of ways as the profiling system operates. The relevance numbers may be modified through entity feedback or other learning methodologies including neural networks. For example relevance numbers as calculated above may be used to develop a set of neural network weights that may be used to initialize a neural network that may refine and learn techniques for generating or modifying relevance values. The neural network may be trained on a set of training cases that may be developed in any of a variety of ways including by using entity selection of a document to set a target value of a resultant relevance number. During training or during operation of the profiling system error functions may be generated between a desired outcome such as a training case where an entity or administrator specifies the relevance score or a situation in operation where entity feedback indicates a particular relevance score and a calculated relevance number. The error function may be used to modify the neural network or other system or method used to calculate the relevance number. In this manner the computation of relevance numbers and in some embodiments the relevance numbers themselves may change as the profiling system interacts with content items and entities. For example a relevance value for a content item may be increased if entity feedback indicates the content item is of greater or lesser relevance. The entity feedback may be explicit such as indicating a degree of relevance the entity would assign to the content item or implicit such as by identifying multiple entities have selected the content item or responded to the content item to a degree that indicates the relevance number should be higher or lower than that assigned by the profiling system. Entity feedback may also include feedback obtained by monitoring the activity selections or both of one or more entities without necessarily receiving intentional feedback from the entity. Examples of neural networks entity feedback modification and other computer learning techniques usable with embodiments of the present invention are described in co pending U.S. Provisional Application 61 122 282 entitled Determining relevant information for domains of interest filed Dec. 12 2008 which application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for any purpose.

Referring back to the set of significantly relevant documents may be identified by setting a threshold relevance number or by setting a fixed number of results and selecting that number of results in relevance number order regardless of the absolute value of the relevance number. In some embodiments the most relevant documents are selected by identifying a place in a relevance ranked list of documents where a significant change in relevance score occurs between consecutive results. So if for example there are documents with relevance numbers of 90 89 87 85 82 80 60 59 58 . . . then a threshold relevance number of 80 may be selected because it occurs prior to the relatively larger twenty point relevance drop to the next document.

After the most relevant documents have been selected the disambiguation engine may determine the most distinctive related key words in those documents. The most relevant keywords may be determined by weighting the highest TF.IDF terms in the documents by the relevance number of the document in which they appear and taking a sum of that product over all the documents for each term. The terms having results over a threshold or a fixed number of highest resulting terms may be selected by the disambiguation engine as most distinctive related keywords . These selected keywords may be presented to the entity to determine if the keyword is useful . For example the keywords may be listed in the disambiguation selection area of . The preference entering entity may find that one or more of the identified keywords helps to refine the preference they have entered or for other reasons should be included in their electronic profile and may indicate the keyword should be added to their preference. The disambiguation engine may further continue the disambiguation operation by repeating the process shown in using the added preference terms. If keywords are not identified as belonging to an entity s preference the declared preference is stored .

Examples of systems and methods for identifying relevant terms and indexing that may be used to implement disambiguation and indexing engines in accordance with embodiments of the present invention are described in co pending U.S. Provisional Application 61 122 282 entitled Determining relevant information for domains of interest filed Dec. 12 2008 which application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for any purpose.

Accordingly examples of the entry of profile information and refinement of entered profile information have been described above that may facilitate the creation and storage of electronic profiles. Referring back to the information contained in an entity s electronic profile may be used by the analysis engine to take a predictive or deterministic action. A variety of predictive or deterministic actions may be taken by the analysis engine based in part on information contained in an entity s electronic profile. Products things locations or services may be selected and suggested described or presented to an entity based on information contained in the entity s electronic profile. In other embodiments other entities may be notified of a possible connection to or interest in an entity based on their electronic profile. Content on a website browsed by an entity may be modified in accordance with their profile in some embodiments. The content modification may include the ordering or ranking of content in the display highlighting of content shaping of content or combinations thereof. The profiling system may also generate or assist in the provider device generating a notification alert email message or other correspondence for the entity based on its profile. Accordingly the analysis engine may take action for the entity or for third parties based on the entity s profile information. In one embodiment which will be described further below the analysis engine selects content for presentation to the entity based on their electronic profile.

An example of operation of the analysis engine to select relevant content for an entity is shown in . The analysis engine accesses one or more aspects such as a preference in an entity s electronic profile. In some embodiments a single stored preference is accessed in some embodiments selected preferences may be accessed and in some embodiments all stored preferences may be accessed. In some embodiments other aspects of the profile may be accessed instead of or in addition to one or more preferences. The analysis engine may access an entity s electronic profile responsive to a request from the entity or a third party such as the provider device in to provide relevant information for the entity. The selection of which preferences associated with an entity to access may in some embodiments be made according to the context of the request for analysis. For example if the request comes from a sports content provider one or more sports related preferences may be accessed. In other embodiments multiple preferences may be accessed and the context of the request or of the entity may alter the manner in which the relevance number is computed. For example in some embodiments a total relevance number is calculated by summing individual relevance numbers calculated using a respective preference. A weighted sum may also be taken with the weight accorded to each individual relevance number based on the preference with which it is associated. Accordingly an entity s context which may be stored in the entity s electronic profile may determine the weighting of individual preferences in calculating a relevance number.

In addition to selecting relevant content for a user based on their electronic profile in some embodiments the analysis engine may alternatively or in addition select entities having profiles or portions of profiles most relevant to a particular set of content. For example referring back to the provider device may communicate an indication of selected content or all content from the content storage . The analysis engine may then score one or more electronic profiles or aspects of those profiles based on the content as generally outlined above. The analysis engine may then report to the provider device a selection of entity profiles that may be relevant to the content provided by the provider device or report back an aspect of profiles that are relevant. For example the analysis engine may indicate particular entities that are relevant to the content or an aspect of those entities such as reporting that entities who like horses or sports appear to be relevant to the content provided by the provider device . This may aid the provider in targeting their content more effectively or preparing mailings or other communications to users. As above in some embodiments electronic profiles are only utilized when the profile specifies it may be used to conduct analysis for the provider.

In other embodiments a specific request may not be required to begin the process shown in . The analysis engine may select one or more content indices for analysis based on a context in which the analysis is operating. In some embodiments the content index or indices to use may already be known or there may only be one in which case the selection may not be necessary. In other embodiments the context surrounding the request for analysis may allow the analysis engine to select one or more content indices for analysis. For example if the provider device of is a sports online service provider the analysis engine may select a sports related content index. Or if the provider such as the provider device requests analysis of a specific content store such as the content in storage of the analysis engine may select an index associated with the content in storage .

Referring back to the analysis engine scores content in the selected indices based on the accessed preferences. The scoring process may occur in any manner including a manner that allows the analysis engine to evaluate content items based on terms in the stored preference. In one embodiment the scoring process includes assigning a relevance number to content items based on the preference as described above with reference to and the document rating performed during preference disambiguation. However in this case the content items are simply scored and further analysis of relevant terms within the document may not be done as was done during preference disambiguation. Examples and techniques for content scoring usable with embodiments of the present application are described in co pending U.S. Provisional Application 61 122 282 entitled Determining relevant information for domains of interest filed Dec. 12 2008 which application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for any purpose.

Accordingly content items in the selected indices may be scored by calculating a relevance number using the term s in the accessed electronic profile preference. Relevant content may then be selected in a similar manner to the selection of documents and terms for the disambiguation of preferences described above. That is content may be selected having a relevance number over a threshold or a fixed number of highest rated content items may be selected or all content items preceding a sharp decline in relevance number may be selected. The selected content items their ratings or both may then be transmitted to the provider device of or in some embodiments directly to the user device . The selected content items may be displayed in the content area of the user device display shown in . The provider device user device or both may handle received content in accordance with its relevance number and may for example display the content differently or at a different time based on its relevance. In some embodiments accordingly the relevance number need not be used to select content but may be used to change the way one or more content items are handled by the user device or provider device.

Selected content items may be displayed using other interfaces and may be arranged according to their relevance number. For example content items identified by the analysis engine may be displayed to the entity in order of increasing or decreasing relevance. An embodiment of a user interface to display relevant content to a user is shown in . The user interface is displayed on a touch screen display of the user device shown in implemented as a handheld device. The user interface displays a plurality of content items . Each item may include a picture text a link to further content represented by the picture or text or combinations thereof. The content items are positioned within the user interface according to their relevance to the entity s profile. The user interface contains content items positioned to appear as though they were laid on a surface of a sphere although the display may be flat. In one embodiment the content items are arranged such that they are placed a distance from a center of the user interface that corresponds to their relevance number. That is content items may have decreasing relevance according to their angular distance from a center of the user interface .

Accordingly the center content item may be a content item having a highest identified relevance number while content items and have next highest relevance numbers content items and have the next highest relevance numbers and content items and have the next highest. The user interface may be interactive such that a user may select a line of content items either in longitude or latitude by for example touching the line. Once selected the user may scroll across latitude or longitude. Further relevant content not shown in may accordingly be rotated into view.

The user interface may also be used to disambiguate preference information as generally described above. A user entered preference term may appear as the item . Related keywords identified by the disambiguation engine according to an embodiment of the process shown in may be displayed in the locations shown by items again generally placed at an angular distance determined by their relevance to the item . In some embodiments successive bands of displayed content or disambiguation terms refine the relevance in different ways. For example in one embodiment the item corresponds to an entity expressed preference term. Related keywords identified according to the term may be placed in the latitude band of such as and others which may not be shown. The next latitude band including items and may be generated by identifying relevant keywords using two terms. For example a relevant keyword may be displayed as item using both the term at item and at item to query a content store.

Similarly or in addition different latitude or longitude bands may correspond to different categories of information. For example if an entity expressed preference term is baseball baseball may be shown at item . Different names of baseball players may accordingly be displayed at items and while different names of baseball teams may be displayed at items and . As described above the term shown at item may be determined by relevance to multiple terms including the term at positions and . Accordingly if the player Alex Rodriguez appears at item the team that player plays for the Yankees may appear at item . As described above a user may then select any latitude or longitude band and rotate it to bring additional options into the display area. If the entity viewing the user interface determines any of the displayed preference disambiguation terms to be relevant to their preference they may so indicate by for example touching or tapping the relevant item and it may be added to the entity s preference as described above with reference to . In other embodiments the user interface may include items displayed as though arranged on a plurality of nested spheres. The different spheres may contain different categories of relevant keywords. So for example the names of baseball players may be displayed at all item positions shown in while another sphere larger or smaller in radius than the illustrated sphere displays the names of baseball teams.

Another embodiment of a user profile management interface is shown in . Again the embodiment is shown implemented on the user device shown as a hand held device having the touch screen display . In a first view the user device displays a preference entry field and may also display terms associated with two stored preferences and . The stored preference includes terms Babe ruth grand jury barry magowan bonds and record. The stored preference includes terms Seattle Mariners Seattle and Mariners. An entity may enter terms for a new preference by entering terms into the preference entry field . As an example an entity may enter the term Dodgers into the preference entry field . A clarification view may then be displayed by the user device as shown in . The clarification view includes terms identified by the disambiguation engine as possibly being relevant to the expressed term. Accordingly the terms run score pitching hit Los Angeles los and angeles are displayed by the user device in . An entity may select any of these terms as relating to their profile and transmit them to the profiling system for inclusion in the entity s profile. For example the entity may select Los Angeles and pitching. A stored profile may then be created containing the terms Dodgers Los Angeles and pitching. In other embodiments following the selection additional terms may be displayed by the user device that are determined by the disambiguation engine to be relevant on the basis of all terms entered thusfar.

Examples of scoring content based on user preferences and identifying related relevant keywords have been described above in both an example of disambiguating preference information and scoring content for selection. The calculation of a relevance number based on preference terms was described.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention.

