---

title: Process to make core-shell structured nanoparticles
abstract: Disclosed is a process for making a composite material that contains core-shell structured nanoparticles. The process includes providing a precursor in the form of a powder a liquid and/or a vapor of a liquid that contains a core material and a shell material, and suspending the precursor in an aerosol gas to produce an aerosol containing the precursor. In addition, the process includes providing a plasma that has a hot zone and passing the aerosol through the hot zone of the plasma. As the aerosol passes through the hot zone of the plasma, at least part of the core material and at least part of the shell material in the aerosol is vaporized. Vapor that contains the core material and the shell material that has been vaporized is removed from the hot zone of the plasma and allowed to condense into core-shell structured nanoparticles.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08623470&OS=08623470&RS=08623470
owner: STC.UNM
number: 08623470
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080620
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE AC52 06NA25396 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to a process to make nanoparticles in particular to a process to make core shell structured nanoparticles.

The development and production of nanoparticles has been the focus of research efforts for at least the last ten years with the properties of nanoparticles often exhibiting behavior that bridges the gap between bulk materials and atomic or molecular structures. For example nanoparticles can exhibit properties that are dependent on the size of particles and properties such as melting temperatures thermal and or electrical conductivity physical hardness and the like can be vastly different when compared to bulk materials having the same chemical composition.

Methods used to produce metal nanoparticles include gas evaporation mechanical attrition sputtering pyrolysis of organometallic compounds microwave plasma decomposition of organometallic compounds and the like. Plasma decomposition of dry precursor powders has proven to be an effective method for producing nanoparticles since dry precursor powders can simplify material handling concerns a relatively tight range of particle size can be obtained and acceptable production rates are available. However previous methods to produce core shell structured nanoparticles have been limited to methods that suffer from large particle size distribution and low production rates. As such a process for making core shell nanoparticles that does not suffer from prior art disadvantages would be desirable.

Disclosed is a process for making a composite material that contains core shell structured nanoparticles. The process includes providing a precursor in the form of a dry precursor powder a liquid and or a vapor of a liquid that contains a core material and a shell material and suspending the precursor in an aerosol gas to produce an aerosol containing the precursor. In addition the process includes providing a plasma that has a hot zone and passing the aerosol through the hot zone of the plasma. As the aerosol passes through the hot zone of the plasma at least part of the core material and at least part of the shell material in the aerosol is vaporized.

In some instances the aerosol vapor initially transports the precursor into the plasma hot zone the hot zone being a region of high electromagnetic energy generated with radio frequency microwave energy or direct current discharge. New particles are created in the hot zone by reorganization of atoms from the precursor and sometimes atoms from the aerosol gas as well. Thereafter the aerosol gas carries the new particles out of the hot zone and into a plasma after glow region where extremely rapid cooling occurs. The particles can then be carried into a zone that is near ambient temperature where the particles can be removed from the plasma system generally with a filter.

The present invention includes a process for making a composite material that contains core shell structured nanoparticles. The core shell structured nanoparticles can be used as an electroactive material a catalyst material a hydrogen storage material and the like. As such the present invention has utility as a process for making a material.

The process includes providing a precursor in the form of a dry powder a liquid and or a vapor of a liquid that contains a core material and a shell material. It is appreciated that the core material can be the precursor for the core and the shell material can be the precursor for the shell of the core shell structured nanoparticles. The dry precursor powder liquid and or vapor of a liquid is suspended in an aerosol gas to produce an aerosol that contains the core material and the shell material. For the purposes of the present invention an aerosol is defined as a gaseous suspension of fine solid particles and or liquid drops. The process also includes providing a plasma the plasma having a hot zone. The aerosol is passed through the hot zone of the plasma with at least part of the core material and at least part of the shell material being vaporized. The hot zone is a region of high electromagnetic energy that can be generated using radio frequency microwave energy or direct current discharge.

New particles are created in the hot zone by the reorganization of atoms from the precursor and sometimes atoms from the aerosol gas and or plasma gas as well. Thereafter the aerosol gas carries the new particles out of the hot zone and into a plasma after glow region. The after glow region is a volume of space downstream from the hot zone where extremely rapid cooling occurs that can impact the new particle structure. Upon exiting the after glow region the particles are received into a zone having near ambient temperature where the highly transformed particles created in the hot zone and afterglow region from the atomic constituents of the precursor and in some gases the plasma carrier gas and or aerosol gas are removed from the system typically with a filter. These particles if processed according to the teachings herein are core shell particles and in some instances having a core made from a single element.

The plasma can be a non oxidizing plasma and in some instances is a low power atmospheric or near atmospheric pressure plasma with the plasma generated by focusing microwave energy within a coupler. The aerosol gas can be an inert gas illustratively including helium argon and combinations thereof. The process can further include passing a plasma gas in addition to the aerosol through the hot zone of the plasma the plasma gas also being an inert gas. In some instances the core material is a lithium alloying material and can contain an element such as tin silicon aluminum germanium combinations thereof and the like. In other instances the core material can be a pre lithiated material in which the lithium alloying material is alloyed with lithium. The shell material can contain an element selected from carbon nitrogen oxygen combinations thereof and the like illustratively including carbon carbides nitrides oxides and the like.

At least one embodiment of the present invention provides a process for producing core shell structured nanoparticles that have an outer mean diameter of less than 500 nanometers. In some instances core shell structured nanoparticles with an outer mean diameter less than 200 nanometers can be produced while in other instances core shell nanoparticles with an outer mean diameter less than 100 nanometers can be produced. In still yet other instances core shell structured nanoparticles with an outer mean diameter less than 50 nanometers are produced. The average wall thickness of the outer shell for the core shell structured nanoparticles is less than 100 nanometers can be less than 50 nanometers and in some instances is less than 20 nanometers.

Optionally an embodiment can include a process wherein a core shell structured nanoparticle is produced followed by a treatment to reduce the size of the core within an outer shell and thereby provide a core that occupies from 5 to 99 percent of an inner volume of the outer shell. It is appreciated that a plurality of the composite core shell structured nanoparticles can be assembled for example with a binder to produce an electrode.

Turning now to the figures wherein like numerals correspond to like elements throughout illustrates an embodiment for producing a composite material containing core shell structured nanoparticles at reference numeral . The process includes providing a precursor in the form of a powder a liquid and or a vapor of a liquid at step and passing the precursor through a plasma torch at step . Upon passing the precursor through the plasma torch at step at least part of a shell material and at least part of a core material that is contained within the precursor is vaporized. Vapor containing the core material and the shell material that has been vaporized is then allowed to condense to form core shell structured nanoparticles at step .

Turning now to a schematic representation of an apparatus for producing core shell structured nanoparticles is shown generally at reference numeral . As shown in this figure an aerosol gas passes through an inlet tube into a precursor container that contains a precursor . Flow of the aerosol gas into the precursor container at a sufficient flow rate results in the suspension of the precursor within the aerosol gas to produce an aerosol. The precursor can contain core material and shell material. The precursor can also contain elements that are not incorporated within the core and or shell of any core shell structure nanoparticles that are produced but may be present to assist in the overall process in some manner.

After the aerosol has been produced it can pass or flow through the exit tube with at least part of the exit tube passing into a quartz plasma torch . In some instances the exit tube has a ceramic portion that terminates generally in the middle of a waveguide . The waveguide is used to couple microwave energy to the plasma torch . Also included can be a plasma gas which passes within the plasma torch but exterior to the ceramic portion of the exit tube which has the aerosol passing therethrough. Upon focusing microwave energy with the waveguide onto the plasma torch a plasma can be generated with a hot zone located within the plasma torch . As the aerosol with the precursor passes through the hot zone of the plasma torch the temperature of the hot zone is such that at least part of the precursor liquid is vaporized. The vaporized precursor exits the hot zone of the plasma torch and enters into a chimney region . Upon exiting the hot zone the atoms of the vaporized precursor condense into solid particles.

If the precursor contains a core material and a shell material the passing or flowing of the aerosol through the hot zone of the plasma torch results in the vaporization of at least part of the core material and at least part of the shell material. Thereafter the core and shell material atoms condense into core shell structured nanoparticles. The core shell structured nanoparticles can be collected from a particle filter from the interior sidewalls of the chimney region and or from a particle trap not shown .

Not being bound by theory the mechanism for the formation of the core shell structured nanoparticles is hypothesized to result from the condensation of core material atoms and shell material atoms to form particles via a nucleation process. The condensed core material atoms and shell material atoms collect on similar nuclei however based on relative miscibility between the two materials the shell material atoms are rejected from the core material and thereby form a surface or shell around the interior core. It is appreciated that the rejection of the shell material atoms may or may not occur until cooling has occurred and or the material has reached an afterglow region . After leaving the hot zone the core shell structured nanoparticles enter the afterglow region of the apparatus in which no further growth occurs. Therefore in the afterglow region the core shell structured nanoparticles are frozen into their final configuration with the cores having an outer shell.

In order to better illustrate an embodiment of the present invention an example of a process wherein core shell structured nanoparticles were produced is provided below.

With reference to dry precursor powders were provided by hand grinding a mixture of tin particles with crystalline anthracene particles to produce the dry precursor powder . The weight ratio of tin to anthracene was 50 1 the tin particles had an average diameter of 50 microns and the mixture of tin particles and anthracene crystals was hand ground until the product appeared fully homogeneous. The dry precursor powder was placed within the precursor powder container . Argon with a flow rate of 200 cubic centimeters per minute cc min at standard temperature and pressure STP was used for the plasma gas and was passed through the plasma torch .

In order to produce an aerosol containing the dry precursor powder argon with a flow rate of 300 cc min at STP was used as the aerosol gas and allowed to pass or flow into the precursor powder container . Upon flowing into the precursor powder container and subsequently exiting therefrom through the exit tube the aerosol gas had tin particles and anthracene particles from the dry precursor powder suspended therein thereby producing an aerosol. The aerosol containing the tin and anthracene particles exited the ceramic portion of the exit tube and entered the hot zone of the plasma generally at the middle of the waveguide section . The waveguide section coupled microwave energy to the plasma torch such that an absorbed power of approximately 900 watts was present. In this example the plasma torch was made from a quartz tube. The plasma itself was confined within the quartz torch and the residence time of the plasma gas and the aerosol was relatively short for example less than 1 second. Thereafter new particles passed from the hot zone to an after glow region and finally to a zone that was at near ambient temperature. Using these parameters core shell structured nanoparticles having a tin core and a graphite shell with a mean nanoparticle diameter of 50 nanometers and a relatively tight size distribution were produced. illustrates such a nanoparticle generally at reference numeral the core shell structured nanoparticle having an inner core and an outer shell and shows a transmission electron microscopy TEM image of actual tin core carbon shell nanoparticles produced using the parameters disclosed above.

Although the above example produced tin graphite nanoparticles it is appreciated that other precursor powder materials can be used to produce other core shell structured nanoparticles. For example any lithium alloying material can be used as the core material and compounds containing carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulfur and the like can be used as the shell material. In some instances the core material can contain elements such as tin silicon aluminum germanium combinations thereof and the like. It is also appreciated that the core material can be a pre lithiated material wherein the core material within the dry precursor powder is a lithium alloying material that has been alloyed with lithium. The passing of the pre lithiated material through the hot zone of the plasma torch results in its vaporization and subsequent condensation into pre lithiated cores.

With reference to wherein like numerals correspond to like elements referenced in dry precursor powders were provided as described above for Example 1 in addition to a liquid carbon source in the form of hexane CH and or its vapor. It is appreciated that hexane is a colorless liquid at room temperature melts at 95 C. boils at 69 C. and has a vapor pressure of 132 mmHg at 20 C. and 1 atmosphere pressure. It is further appreciated that other liquid carbon sources and other methods of incorporating liquid drops and or its vapor into an inert gas e.g. ultrasonic vibration of hexane to produce a direct hexane aerosol can be used within the scope of the present invention.

As illustrated in the liquid carbon source was placed in a container with an aerosol gas flowing into the container and above the source before exiting the container . In the alternative the aerosol gas can flow into the container and bubble through the liquid carbon source before exiting the container . In this manner drops of the liquid carbon source and or its vapor were suspended in the aerosol gas as it flowed out of the container and towards the container . The aerosol gas source was optionally included to better control the amount of dry precursor particles and or the total gas flow exiting from the container and delivered to the plasma torch . For this particular example approximately 900 watts of absorbed power was present at the plasma torch argon was used as the plasma and aerosol gases. In addition flow rates of 250 cc min for the plasma gas 30 cc min for the aerosol gas and 160 cc min for the aerosol gas afforded tin core carbon shell nanoparticles as shown in .

It is appreciated that the present invention is not bound by or to specific flow stream rates compositions or configurations. In addition even though the above examples discloses a method having a dual gas flow system with each gas flow having a different overall composition and only joining and mixing at the plasma hot zone other gas flow and or plasma systems are included within the scope of the present invention. For example and for illustratively purposes only a method using a direct current DC discharge plasma having a one flow gas system wherein an aerosol gas and a plasma gas are one in the same is within the scope of the disclosed inventive method. This method would result in all of the gas that flows through the plasma and the precursor being well mixed before reaching the hot zone as opposed to the two gas flow system wherein the aerosol gas and the plasma gas mix with each other in the center of the hot zone as described in the examples above.

The foregoing drawings discussion and description are illustrative of specific embodiments of the present invention but they are not meant to be limitations upon the practice thereof. Numerous modifications and variations of the invention will be readily apparent to those of skill in the art in view of the teaching presented herein. It is the following claims including all equivalents which define the scope of the invention.

