---

title: Targeting control in a simulated environment
abstract: Targeting control may be facilitated in a simulated environment. In an example embodiment, a method includes acts of monitoring, generating, moving, and firing. A button input and a directional input are monitored. If a press and hold of the button input is detected, a fine aiming mode is generated. If movement of the directional input is detected during the fine aiming mode, a location of a target indicator is moved responsive to the detected movement. When a release of the button input is detected, a ranged weapon is fired based on the location of the target indicator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08777708&OS=08777708&RS=08777708
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08777708
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080627
---
With the rapid increase in processing power processing devices are capable of simulating complex environments. Environments are simulated for entertainment educational training and other purposes. For any of these various purposes some simulated environments are directed to simulating combat situations. Within simulated combat environments users operate player characters. Player characters are often operated to defend self or others to achieve a mission objective or for other reasons.

In today s complex simulated environments player characters are capable of interacting with many different simulated objects. Player characters are also empowered to interact with simulated objects in many different ways. This multitude of options contributes to the realism and richness of the simulated environments. On the other hand the breadth and diversity of such options can also cause confusion and information overload for users who are operating the player characters. Unfortunately existing user interface UI and controller input mechanisms fail to sufficiently ameliorate these problems that can overwhelm users and undercut the purposes of the simulated environment.

Targeting control may be facilitated in a simulated environment. Fine aiming target locking and firing may be accomplished with one directional input and one button input. In an example embodiment a method includes acts of monitoring generating moving and firing. A button input and a directional input are monitored. If a press and hold of the button input is detected a fine aiming mode is generated. If movement of the directional input is detected during the fine aiming mode a location of a target indicator is moved responsive to the detected movement. When a release of the button input is detected a ranged weapon is fired based on the location of the target indicator.

In other example embodiments target locking is established with magnetic objects that attract a target indicator. When the target indicator is moved sufficiently proximate to a magnetic object a target lock is established on the magnetic object. While the target lock is established the location of the target indicator tracks a position of the magnetic object. In an example implementation a target lock may be broken by a user by moving the directional input a predetermined distance e.g. to a physically maximum distance .

In still other example embodiments target locked subtargeting may be accomplished using one directional input and one button input or two button inputs. In an example one button input embodiment a target lock subtargeting mode is automatically activated some time after a target lock is established on a magnetic object. In an example two button input embodiment a target lock subtargeting mode is activated if a second subtargeting button input is at least pressed by a user while a target lock is established. When a target lock subtargeting mode is activated with a one or two button implementation detected movement of the directional input causes a location of the target indicator to be moved to a subtargeted area of the magnetic object to which the target indicator is currently locked.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. Moreover other systems methods devices media apparatuses arrangements and other example embodiments are described herein.

Target locking enables a moving target to be tracked for example in an action game that utilizes ranged combat. Target locking may be combined with subtarget locking which enables different areas of a targeted object to be targeted. Subtargeting can provide the feel of extra fine aiming without demanding excessively delicate work from a player of the game. Unfortunately conventional target locking interfaces are often complicated they require using different buttons and or a second directional input stick for switching between targets and subtargets. Conventional approaches are therefore a barrier to new players. Moreover conventional approaches can rapidly consume gaming controller inputs and or clutter a gaming controller.

An example conventional approach is described with reference to an existing game. In this existing game a target locking system does allow a player character to move freely while locking onto a target upon a button press. More specifically locking onto a target is achieved by pressing a left shoulder button on a gaming controller. Changing locked targets is achieved by using both shoulder buttons. Changing subtargeted areas of a target locked object is achieved by moving a right stick of the gaming controller. Firing is achieved by pressing the right shoulder button. Aiming a target indicator when no target is currently locked is achieved by using the right stick.

The above described conventional approach does enable target locking and subtargeting during the target locking. However multiple buttons are required to be used in multiple different combinations. A limitation of this approach is thus the number of inputs required to aim lock change subtargets and fire a player character s weapon. This can be difficult to learn and incessantly confusing which reduces the enjoyment of the game. For other purposes of simulated environments this conventional approach can reduce the effectiveness of the education the training and so forth.

In contrast with certain example embodiments a player is able to aim a ranged weapon target lock subtarget lock and fire the ranged weapon using one directional input and one button input. In an example implementation this is enabled by making the release of a ranged weapon button input the trigger that fires the ranged weapon. This allows the duration that the ranged weapon button input is held to define a length of a fine aiming mode. In the fine aiming mode movement of the directional input aims the ranged weapon through a target indicator instead of moving the player character within the simulated environment.

In an example embodiment simulated environment includes at least one player character at least one target indicator and one or more environmental objects . Environmental objects include one or more magnetic objects . Simulated environment may be any real or imagined environment that is capable of being simulated by a processing device. Example environments include but are not limited to buildings towns valleys jungles desserts air planets space and other potential combat environments.

A player character represents a user player in simulated environment . Player character may be a humanoid a vehicle a ship some combination thereof and so forth. Player character may be depicted fully partially or implicitly within simulated environment in any manner. The depiction may depend on the type of environment and or character the type of simulation the current camera angle and so forth. For example a significant portion of player character is usually depicted with a third person camera angle while little to none of player character may be depicted with a first person camera angle.

Multiple environmental objects may be depicted in simulated environment at any given moment. Environmental objects may be by way of example but not limitation stationary objects moving objects and so forth. Some environmental objects may be capable of being directly interacted with by the user with player character . One type of environmental objects that is capable of being interacted with is magnetic objects .

A magnetic object is attractive to target indicator at least during a fine aiming mode. When a target indicator is sufficiently proximate to a magnetic object during a fine aiming mode target indicator snaps onto the proximate magnetic object . Operation of target indicator is under the control of targeting controller responsive to inputs by a user. A user may provide input to simulated environment using player input device . Examples of a player input device are described herein below with particular reference to .

In an example operation simulated environment creator is to create simulated environment . Targeting controller is to produce and present target indicator in response to user input s . Generally embodiments of targeting controller may perform the different targeting control functionality that is described herein. Simulated environment creator and hence targeting controller may be realized as processor executable instructions e.g. a program an application a module coding etc. that are executable on a processing device. Example processing devices and processor executable instructions located on and or realizes as part of processor accessible media are described herein below with particular reference to .

During an example operation a user may manipulate target indicator with player input device . When a range weapon button input is pressed and held a fine aiming mode is generated and entered . In response targeting controller produces target indicator and presents it within simulated environment . When a directional input is moved target indicator is moved around simulated environment in response to the movements of the directional input.

During the movement of target indicator it may snap onto a magnetic object if it is moved by the user so as to be sufficiently proximate to a magnetic object . A level of closeness that qualifies as sufficiently proximate may be set by simulated environment creator based on any of a number of factors. Example factors include but are not limited to i a size of the visible portion of simulated environment a size of target indicator a size of magnetic objects etc. ii the desired difficulty of playing within simulated environment iii the speed at which target indicator is moved iv a combination thereof v and so forth. The proximity setting for snapping target indicator to a magnetic object may be adjusted over time for a given player character and or for different player characters . It should be noted that the proximity setting may be set to entail actual contact by target indicator with magnetic object and or contact with a specific area or portion of magnetic object .

The snapping of target indicator to a magnetic object establishes a target lock. With the target lock target indicator will track the position s of a magnetic object as it moves around simulated environment at least so long as it remains within view of player character . During the target lock a target lock subtargeting mode may be activated. The target lock subtargeting mode facilitates movement of target indicator to subtargeted areas of the magnetic object to which target indicator is currently locked. One and two button example embodiments for a target lock subtargeting mode are described herein below with particular reference to and A respectively. During the fine aiming mode that is entered when the ranged weapon button input is pressed and held release of the ranged weapon button causes a ranged weapon to fire. Example embodiments for the fine aiming mode are described herein below with particular reference to .

Typically an analog directional input A e.g. a control stick a joystick etc. is capable of detecting a range of movement along a multitude of directions. In contrast a digital directional input D e.g. a plus pad a joypad etc. is capable of detecting binary on off movement along a finite number of directions. The finite number of directions is often four or eight but it may be a different number of directions. Some embodiments that are described herein may be operated with either a digital or an analog directional input D or A. Other embodiments which are identified herein below are operated using analog aspects of an analog directional input A.

For example embodiments a key shows a directional input and a button input . Directional input may be moved in a number of different directions as represented by the four arrows that are arranged in a plus shape in . Although four arrows are shown for directional input in key of a given directional input may be capable of receiving input in a different number of directions especially if it is an analog directional input A. Button input may be pressed held and or released e.g. pressed and released or pressed and held and subsequently released . A downward arrow indicates a press. It also indicates that the button input is continued to be pressed i.e. held until an upward arrow indicates that the button input is being released. This key is used to further describe and illustrate various embodiments in A D A E and A C.

As shown in a player input device may be realized as a gaming type controller. However player input device may be realized using different input device s that individually or together provide at least one directional input and one or more button inputs .

Although magnetic object is illustrated as a vehicle in and in the other FIGS. of the drawings it is not so limited. In fact magnetic objects may generally be any environmental object . Examples of magnetic objects include but are not limited to vehicles e.g. cars planes submarines spaceships tanks etc. humanoids e.g. individuals groups armor etc. enemy weapons barriers defenses walls buildings cities planets combinations and derivatives thereof and so forth.

In an example embodiment of standard firing procedure a fine aiming mode is not generated. A user may move and orient player character as desired such as by using directional input . When button input is pressed and released e.g. as shown in key in weapon of player character is fired from the current location and based on the orientation of player character and possibly weapon . It should be noted that is shown from a normal operational mode with a traditional so called third person string and cage camera.

Thus in an example implementation the ranged weapon button input fires the weapon on its release instead of its press. With these quick shots tapping the ranged weapon button does not change the camera. However the camera may observe any direction inputted via the directional input so as to cause it to turn and face the player character and fire the weapon in that direction. If no direction is inputted the current direction that the player character is facing is used to fire the weapon.

With reference to illustrated generally at A are three magnetic objects and . As indicated by key a user presses and holds button input . Responsive to detecting the pressing and holding of button input a fine aiming mode is generated. Movement of player character may be curtailed during the fine aiming mode. A target indicator is produced and presented with the simulated environment. These actions may be performed by for example targeting controller of . Although target indicator is shown in the accompanied drawings as a targeting reticule target indicator may be drawn and displayed in alternative manners.

When entering the fine aiming mode the camera angle is switched to a view that is conducive to aiming a weapon from the vantage point of player character . Example appropriate camera angle vantage points that are conducive to aiming a weapon are first person third person over the shoulder combinations and derivatives thereof and so forth. With a first person view a part of player character e.g. a weapon and an arm portion a turret etc. may be displayed. An example third person over the shoulder view is illustrated in and the other drawings. The fine aiming mode view may consume all or merely a portion of the available screen pane or window real estate that is displaying simulated environment of .

With reference to as illustrated generally at B target indicator may be moved during the fine aiming mode. As shown at key the user continues to hold button input to maintain the fine aiming mode. Additionally the user moves directional input . In this example directional input is moved upward. In responsive to detecting this upward movement of directional input target indicator is moved upward. More specifically target indicator is moved from one location to a new location at target indicator . The speed of this movement may be proportional to the distance that an analog directional input A is moved. The dotted lines of target indicator indicate a location from which target indicator is being moved.

Because the depicted vehicle is a magnetic object target indicator snaps onto it when the location of target indicator becomes sufficiently proximate. In other words when targeting controller detects that a location of target indicator is sufficiently close to a magnetic object so that it attracts target indicator targeting controller snaps target indicator onto the magnetic object . This establishes a target lock on magnetic object . Thus for example implementations in which environmental objects include magnetic objects the user may not be forced to carefully maneuver target indicator precisely onto magnetic object depending on the proximity setting for snapping a target lock onto a magnetic object .

With reference to as illustrated generally at C a weapon may be fired during and or at the conclusion of a fine aiming mode. As shown at key the user releases button input . When release of button input is detected the ranged weapon that player character is currently using is fired . The weapon is fired based on the current location of target indicator . Hence barring other external environmental factors and or defensive capabilities of magnetic object player character is likely to successfully hit the target locked magnetic object . Release of button input may also terminate the fine aiming mode.

With reference to as illustrated generally at D a target lock may be broken using directional input . is particularly applicable to embodiments in which directional input is an analog directional input e.g. including one button target lock subtargeting mode embodiments . As shown at key fine aiming mode is maintained as the user continues to hold button input . A target lock has been established on magnetic object as indicated by the location of target indicator . This situation corresponds to the end of the events depicted in .

To break the target lock a user moves directional input a predetermined distance . When targeting controller detects movement of directional input the predetermined distance it is apparent that the user wishes to break the target lock so the target lock is relinquished. Relinquishing the target lock causes the location of target indicator to be moved away from the currently targeted magnetic object . As shown target indicator moves to target indicator responsive to detection of movement of directional input the predetermined distance . These aspects are further described herein below with particular reference to .

When a target lock is relinquished target indicator may be moved in the direction of the movement of the directional input that caused the target lock to be broken. Until a target lock is broken by movement of directional input the predetermined distance movements that are less than the predetermined distance enable a user to move target indicator around the currently locked magnetic object to subtargeted areas. This is described further herein below with particular reference to and .

In an example embodiment the predetermined distance is a maximally permissible physical amount of movement for an analog directional input A. In such an embodiment a user may conveniently thrust the knob stick etc. of an analog directional input A as far as the housing will permit e.g. against a plastic side in order to break the target lock.

It should be noted that the acts of the various flow diagrams that are described herein may be performed in many different environments and with a variety of different devices such as by one or more processing devices e.g. of . The orders in which the methods are described are not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described blocks can be combined augmented rearranged and or omitted to implement a respective method or an alternative method that is equivalent thereto. Although specific elements of certain other FIGS. are referenced in the description of the flow diagrams the methods may be performed with alternative elements.

For certain example embodiments starting at block a directional input and a button input are monitored. They may be monitored together separately sequentially simultaneously or some combination thereof. At block it is detected if the button input has been pressed and held. If not the method continues at block with continued monitoring. If the button input is detected to have been pressed and held then at block a fine aiming mode is generated.

At block it is detected if there is movement of the directional input. If not the method continues at block . If movement of the directional input is detected then at block a location of the target indicator is moved responsive to the movement of the directional input. At block it is determined if the location of the target indicator is proximate to a magnetic object. If not the method continues at block .

If on the other hand the location of the target indicator is determined at block to be sufficiently close to a magnetic object then at block the target indicator is locked onto the magnetic object. This locking establishes a target lock on the magnetic object. Consequently as the magnetic object changes position within the simulated environment the target indicator tracks the position of the magnetic object at least while a view of the magnetic object remains unblocked uninterrupted from the perspective of the player character .

At block it is detected if the button input has been released. If not then the method continues at block to attempt to detect movement of the directional input. If the button input is detected at block to be released then at block a ranged weapon is fired based on the current location of the target indicator. Detection of this release of the button input may also terminate the fine aiming mode.

With reference to as illustrated generally at A a target lock subtargeting mode has been activated. As shown by key a user continues to hold button input . A target lock has been established on magnetic object . After a predetermined period of time elapses once a target lock is established targeting controller automatically activates a target lock subtargeting mode in this embodiment. This predetermined period of time may be zero seconds or longer e.g. a few tenths of a second .

Activation of the target lock subtargeting mode is indicated by some UI element. In activation of the target lock subtargeting mode is indicated by having target indicator not shown in change its appearance as sub target indicator . Alternative UI indications to reveal the activating of a target lock subtargeting mode may be implemented example alternatives are described herein below with particular reference to . In target indicator has eight crosshairs instead of four to indicate that the target lock subtargeting mode has been activated.

In an example embodiment as illustrated at A target indicator further indicates subtargeting area options that are available on magnetic object which is the magnetic object to which the target indicator is currently locked. Three of the crosshairs have arrows pointing to subtargeting areas. For instance as shown the three subtargeting area options of the vehicle are the front seat the engine and the rear tire. When magnetic object is a humanoid for instance predefined subtargeting area options may be for example a head a right hand weapon a left hand weapon and one or both legs with the torso being a default target lock area.

With reference to as illustrated generally at B target indicator is being moved to a subtargeting area. As shown by key a user continues to hold button input and moves directional input to the right. Responsive to detection of this movement of directional input the subtargeting area to the right of target indicator is selected. Specifically target indicator is moved to target indicator . The front seat subtargeting area could have been selected instead by moving directional input at an angle upwards and to the right.

With reference to as illustrated generally at C the subtargeting area corresponding to the engine of the vehicle is being targeted by the location of target indicator . As shown by key a user releases button input . Responsive to detection of the release of button input the weapon of player character is fired . The firing is performed based on the current location of target indicator

In embodiments in which target indicator further indicates other available subtargeting areas the arrows of target indicator are updated to reflect the currently available subtargeting areas after movement to the location of target indicator . More specifically three arrows point to the following subtargeting areas leftward and upward toward the front seat leftward toward the middle of the car e.g. toward the original default target locking area and leftward and downward toward the rear tire. If the user were not to release button input additional movements of directional input may relocate target indicator to a different subtargeting area.

With reference to as illustrated generally at D a different GUI indicator reveals that a target lock subtargeting mode has been activated. As shown by key a user continues to hold button input . A target lock is still maintained by target indicator on magnetic object . Three target indicators are presented to reveal activation of the target lock subtargeting mode.

The location s of these additional subtargeting target indicators indicate the subtargeting area options on magnetic object that are available to player character . As shown target indicator corresponds to the front seat of the vehicle target indicator corresponds to the engine and target indicator corresponds to the rear wheel. An additional movement of directional input by the user can cause any of these three subtargeting areas to be targeted by the target lock e.g. by moving target indicator .

With reference to as illustrated generally at E other alternative GUI indicator s are presented to reveal activation of the target lock subtargeting mode. As shown by key a user continues to hold button input . A target lock is still maintained on magnetic object . Two different example target indicators and are presented to reveal activation of a target lock subtargeting mode. Either or both may be implemented in a given embodiment. Moreover an audible indication may be implemented in addition to or instead of the target lock subtargeting mode visual UI indicators shown in the drawings.

Target indicator is similar to target indicator of . Target indicator is modified to create target indicator . In the illustrated example the number of cross hairs has changed from four to eight to indicate that the target lock subtargeting mode has been activated. Alternatively a separate UI element may be overlaid on top of the displayed simulated environment . For example a UI element may be presented near the side of a screen pane window etc. to reveal that a target lock subtargeting mode has been activated. Although UI element is shown as a hexagon containing four letters e.g. TL ST such a subtargeting indicator UI element may be presented with a different appearance including with or without letters .

In the example embodiments of target indicators and available subtargeting areas of magnetic object are not specifically identified in the display. In one example implementation a predefined set of subtargeting area options are implicitly available. These may vary by type of magnetic object or be standard across a number of object types. For instance these predefined areas may be up down left and right available directions for subtargeting movement. These predefined directions and or locations may be communicated to the user through instruction and or experimentation.

In another example implementation the subtargeting areas that are available to player character provide a free range over all or a part of the magnetic object on which a target lock is currently established. This provides a user an extra fine control during the target lock subtargeting mode. A number of different example embodiments and multiple various implementations are described herein for a target lock subtargeting mode with reference to and . The different embodiments and implementations may be used together or separately as well as combined in a myriad of different ways. For example a subtargeting mode target indicator may appear relatively rapidly after a target lock is established and then be followed sometime thereafter by sub target indicators of if a user does not provide another input in the interim.

For certain example embodiments starting at block a predetermined time period elapses after a target lock has been established on a magnetic object. The predetermined time period may be zero seconds or longer. At block a target lock subtargeting mode is activated after the predetermined time period elapses.

At block it is detected if movement of an analog directional input is of a predetermined distance. If not then the method continues at block . If the analog directional input is detected to be moved the predetermined distance which indicates that the user wishes to break the target lock then at block the target lock is relinquished from the magnetic object.

At block it is detected if there is movement of the directional input. If not then the method continues at block for additional monitoring for movement of the directional input. If on the other hand movement of the directional input is detected which is less than the predetermined distance then at block the location of the target indicator is moved to a subtargeted area on the magnetic object to which the target indicator is locked. This movement of the target indicator is made responsive to the detection of the directional input movement of less than the predetermined distance.

By way of example only ranged weapon button input RW may be a surface button input A B C D of and subtargeting button input ST may be a shoulder button input L R. Directional input may be an analog or a digital directional input .

With reference to as illustrated generally at A a target lock subtargeting mode has not yet been activated. As shown by key a user continues to hold ranged weapon button input RW. At least partially in response to this pressing and holding a target lock has been established on magnetic object . Thus target indicator tracks the position of magnetic object around simulated environment at least while it remains in view of player character . With the two button approach elapsed time alone does not precipitate activation of a target lock subtargeting mode.

With reference to as illustrated generally at B a target lock subtargeting mode has been activated. As shown by key a user is pressing and holding subtargeting button input ST. In response to detection of at least the pressing of subtargeting button input ST the target lock subtargeting mode is activated.

By way of example only the target lock subtargeting UI of is shown in . Thus a target indicator replaces target indicator at magnetic object . Also three crosshairs have arrows further indicating specific subtargeting areas that are available on magnetic object . While the target lock subtargeting mode is active movement of directional input causes target indicator to move around magnetic object to other subtargeting areas.

With reference to as illustrated generally at C a firing occurs during the target lock subtargeting mode. As indicated by key the user continues to hold subtargeting button input ST. The user releases ranged weapon button input RW. In response to detection of the release of ranged weapon button input RW the ranged weapon is fired based on the current location of target indicator . The firing of the ranged weapon may deactivate the target lock subtargeting mode and or may terminate the fine aiming mode.

After the ranged weapon is fired subtargeting button input ST may be released. In this implementation of two button subtargeting embodiments the user presses and holds subtargeting button input ST to activate and maintain the target lock subtargeting mode. If the user releases subtargeting button input ST prior to releasing ranged weapon button input RW the target lock subtargeting mode is deactivated.

Alternatively in another implementation of two button subtargeting embodiments the user may release the subtargeting button input ST at any time. In other words the target lock subtargeting mode may be activated in response to at least the subtargeting button input ST being pressed and or released the first time . The target lock subtargeting mode may be deactivated when the ranged weapon is fired when the user presses and or releases subtargeting button input ST a second time and so forth.

It should be understood that the various alternative UI and subtargeting mechanism embodiments of may be utilized in two button target lock subtargeting mode embodiments. Also it should be noted that pressing subtargeting button input ST in either the holding or the two tapping implementation for two button embodiments may disable the target lock breaking embodiment described herein above with particular reference to and blocks and of .

For certain example embodiments starting at block it is detected if a subtargeting button input is pressed and held or at least pressed once . If not monitoring of the designated subtargeting button input continues at block . If the subtargeting button input is detected to be pressed then at block a target lock subtargeting mode is activated.

At block it is detected if there is movement of the directional input. If not then the method continues at block . If movement of the directional input is detected then at block the target indicator is moved to a subtargeted area on the magnetic object to which the target indicator is locked responsive to the detected movement.

At block it is detected if the subtargeting button input is released as part of a first press and hold or as part of a second tap . If not then the method continues at block for further monitoring of the directional input for movement thereof. If the subtargeting button input is detected at block to be released then at block the target lock subtargeting mode is deactivated. This manual deactivation of the target lock subtargeting mode may also cause the target lock on the magnetic object to be relinquished at block and or the manual deactivation may re enable target locking breaking by moving a directional input a predetermined distance.

For certain general example embodiments fine aiming mode generator is to generate a fine aiming mode such as those that are depicted in responsive to a press and a hold of a first button input. Button input detector and directional input detector are to monitor button inputs and directional inputs respectively. Detected button inputs may be presses and releases e.g. taps presses and holds releases combinations thereof and so forth. Detected directional inputs may be digital in nature analog in nature any movements along any permissible direction movements of a predetermined distance combinations thereof and so forth.

Ranged weapon firer is to fire a ranged weapon responsive to detections of button inputs. Target indicator mover is to move a target indicator responsive to detections of movements of directional inputs during the fine aiming mode including during target lock subtargeting modes. Target lock subtargeting mode activator is to activate a target lock subtargeting mode. Target lock subtargeting mode activator may be implemented with one button component in which the target lock subtargeting mode is activated based on predetermined period of time that may elapse once a fine aiming mode is generated. Alternatively target lock subtargeting mode activator may be implemented with two button component in which the target lock subtargeting mode is activated based on at least a press of a second subtargeting button input.

For certain example specific embodiments a device with targeting control for a simulated environment includes a targeting controller . The targeting controller includes a button input detector a directional input detector a fine aiming mode generator a target indicator mover and a ranged weapon firer . Button input detector is to monitor a button input. Directional input detector is to monitor a directional input.

Fine aiming mode generator is to generate a fine aiming mode if button input detector detects a press and hold of the button input. Target indicator mover is to move a location of a target indicator if directional input detector detects movement of the directional input during the fine aiming mode. Ranged weapon firer is to fire a ranged weapon based on the location of the target indicator if button input detector detects a release of the button input.

In a more specific example embodiment fine aiming mode generator is to switch to a camera view of the simulated environment that is conducive to aiming the target indicator from a perspective of a player character. Fine aiming mode generator is to precipitate a target lock to be established on a magnetic object of the simulated environment when the location of the target indicator is determined to be sufficiently proximate to the magnetic object. The target lock is to cause the location of the target indicator to track a position of the magnetic object.

In another more specific example embodiment targeting controller may further include a target lock subtargeting mode activator . Target lock subtargeting mode activator is to activate a target lock subtargeting mode during the target lock on the magnetic object. The target lock subtargeting mode is to enable a user to move the target indicator to a subtargeted area of the magnetic object to which the targeted indicator is currently locked.

In a still more specific example embodiment target lock subtargeting mode activator may include a one button component or a two button component . One button component is to automatically activate the target lock subtargeting mode once a predetermined time period elapses after establishment of the target lock. Two button component is to activate the target lock subtargeting mode if button input detector detects a press a press and hold or a release of a subtargeted button input.

In another more specific example embodiment the directional input is an analog directional input. Fine aiming mode generator is to relinquish the target lock on the magnetic object if directional input detector detects movement of the analog directional input of a predetermined distance.

For example embodiments device may represent any processing capable device. Examples of devices include personal or server computers hand held electronics entertainment appliances e.g. including portable gaming devices console gaming devices etc. network components some combination thereof and so forth. Device and device may communicate over network s . Network s may be by way of example but not limitation an internet an intranet an Ethernet a public network a private network a cable network a digital subscriber line DSL network a telephone network a wireless network a gaming network some combination thereof and so forth. Person device interface equipment may be a keyboard keypad a touch screen a remote a mouse or other graphical pointing device a player input device of e.g. a gaming controller a screen a speaker and so forth.

I O interfaces may include i a network interface for monitoring and or communicating across network ii a display device interface for displaying information on a display screen iii one or more person device interfaces and so forth. Examples of i network interfaces include a network card a modem one or more ports a network communications stack a radio and so forth. Examples of ii display device interfaces include a graphics driver a graphics card a hardware or software driver for a screen or monitor and so forth. Examples of iii person device interfaces include those that communicate by wire or wirelessly with person device interface equipment .

Processor may be implemented using any applicable processing capable technology and one may be realized as a general purpose or a special purpose processor. Examples include a central processing unit CPU a microprocessor a controller a graphics processing unit GPU an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a derivative or combination thereof and so forth. Media may be any available media that is included as part of and or is accessible by device . It includes volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media storage and transmission media e.g. wireless or wired communication channels hard coded logic media combinations thereof and so forth. Media is tangible media when it is embodied as a manufacture and or as a composition of matter.

Generally processor is capable of executing performing and or otherwise effectuating processor executable instructions such as processor executable instructions . Media is comprised of one or more processor accessible media. In other words media may include processor executable instructions that are executable by processor to effectuate the performance of functions by device . Processor executable instructions may be embodied as software firmware hardware fixed logic circuitry some combination thereof and so forth.

Thus realizations for targeting control in a simulated environment may be described in the general context of processor executable instructions. Processor executable instructions may include routines programs applications coding modules protocols objects components logic metadata and definitions thereof data structures application programming interfaces APIs etc. that perform and or enable particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. Processor executable instructions may be located in separate storage media executed by different processors and or propagated over or extant on various transmission media.

As specifically illustrated media comprises at least processor executable instructions . Processor executable instructions may comprise for example a simulated environment creator of a targeting controller of logic and or coding that is capable of implementing the simulated environments and targeting control UIs thereof that are described herein and illustrated in the accompanying drawings some combination thereof and so forth. Generally processor executable instructions when executed by processor enable device to perform the various functions described herein. Such functions also include by way of example but not limitation those that are illustrated in the various flow diagrams and those pertaining to features illustrated in the block diagrams as well as combinations thereof and so forth.

The devices acts features functions methods modules data structures techniques components etc. of are illustrated in diagrams that are divided into multiple blocks and other elements. However the order interconnections interrelationships layout etc. in which are described and or shown are not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the blocks and or other elements can be modified combined rearranged augmented omitted etc. in any manner to implement one or more systems methods devices media apparatuses arrangements etc. for targeting control in a simulated environment.

Although systems methods devices media apparatuses arrangements and other example embodiments have been described in language specific to structural logical algorithmic and or functional features it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claimed invention.

