---

title: Conjugate of insulin and vitamin B12 for oral delivery
abstract: Compositions containing a therapeutic peptide covalently linked to Vitamin Bat the 5′-hydroxyl group of the ribose moiety of α-ligand are described. The length of the linkage is optimized so that the biological activity of both the Vitamin Band the therapeutic peptide is maintained. Therapeutic peptide includes insulin, PYY, NPY and GLP-1. Attachment to Vitamin Bprovides uptake of the therapeutic peptide from the digestive tract and longer residence time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08883723&OS=08883723&RS=08883723
owner: Syracuse University
number: 08883723
owner_city: Syracuse
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080304
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional application No. 60 904 962 filed Mar. 5 2007 the entire disclosure of which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference.

Embodiments of the invention relate to Vitamin Bconjugates for oral delivery of proteins and peptides and more particularly to Vitamin Bconjugated to insulin. Methods of preparing and using such conjugates in treatment of disease particularly diabetes are described.

Oral enteric delivery of insulin is potentially an attractive means for non invasive insulin delivery since it is likely to have high patient compliance. Previous research has demonstrated some promising results using the oral enteric route but the bioavailability of only about 5 is low. Two major limitations related to successful oral enteric delivery are proteolysis in the gastrointestinal tract and poor absorption from the intestine into the blood Heinemann L. et al. 2001 7 14 1327 1351 Shah R. B. et al. 2002 19 2 135 169 .

Specific uptake mechanisms exist in the gastrointestinal tract for uptake of dietary molecules. In the case of Vitamin B a specific binding protein is released into the intestine which binds to its ligand in the lumen of the gut. Mammals have a transport mechanism for the absorption and cellular uptake of the relatively large Vitamin Bmolecule which relies upon complexing to a naturally occurring transport protein known as Intrinsic Factor 12 Chapters 16 Intrinsic Factor Haptocorrin and their receptors and 17 Transcobalamin II Banerjee Ruma Ed Wiley Interscience 1999 Vitamin BZagalak et al. Eds de Gruyter Press 1979 . Russell Jones et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 428 023 5 807 832 have shown that Vitamin Bcan be coupled to a peptide e.g. the D Lys 6 analog of luteinizing hormone releasing hormone so as to preserve the ability of Vitamin Bto interact with Intrinsic Factor and thereby take advantage of the natural uptake mechanism for Vitamin Bto deliver the luteinizing hormone releasing hormone analog into the blood. Russell Jones et al. teach attachment of the luteinizing hormone releasing hormone analog to Vitamin Bat a carboxyl group of an acid hydrolyzed propionamide side chain see .

Other proteins and peptides have also been conjugated to Vitamin Bin attempts to provide effective oral delivery compositions. For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 574 018 teaches Vitamin Bconjugated to erythropoietin granulocyte colony stimulating factor and consensus interferon through covalent binding at the primary hydroxyl site of the ribose moiety of the Vitamin B. Conjugates of other bioactive agents and Vitamin Bare taught by Grissom et al. WO 01 30967 WO 98 08859 . Grissom et al. teach covalent attachment of cancer treatment drugs to the cobalt atom of Vitamin B. In some cases see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 482 413 the Vitamin Bis not directly linked to the target peptide or protein but rather the Vitamin Bis linked to micro or nanocapsules containing unconjugated intact peptide or protein. Although this approach is touted by the patentee as providing better protection against proteolysis and Vitamin B mediated transport of larger payloads of biologically active peptide or protein it presents many more technical issues related to polymer encapsulation technology and inefficient transport of the relatively large particles across the intestinal lining.

Despite the theoretical advantages of using a conjugate of Vitamin Band insulin to provide an oral delivery form of insulin no one has been successful in developing an effective conjugate. Indeed researchers have concluded that it is not possible to link insulin to Vitamin Bsuch that the resulting conjugate is capable of ushering a therapeutically effective amount of biologically active insulin across the intestinal lining see e.g. Table 1 Russell Jones G. J. 1998 15 557 586 indicating that Vitamin Balone lacks the necessary capacity to transport insulin from the intestine into the blood .

Accordingly there remains an important and unmet need for an oral delivery form of insulin wherein adequate levels of active insulin are deliverable into the blood from the intestine using the Vitamin B Intrinsic Factor uptake mechanism.

An oral delivery conjugate is disclosed in accordance with an aspect of the present invention. The conjugate comprises vitamin Bcoupled to a therapeutically active polypeptide wherein the polypeptide is covalently attached to a dicarboxylic acid derivative of the primary 5 hydroxyl group of the ribose moiety of vitamin B and wherein the conjugate exhibits at least a portion of the therapeutic activity of the polypeptide.

In one embodiment the therapeutically active polypeptide in the oral delivery conjugate is selected from the group consisting of insulin protein YY PYY neuropeptide Y NPY and Glucagon like peptide 1 GLP 1 . In a preferred embodiment the therapeutically active polypeptide is insulin. The insulin preferably human and is coupled to the Vitamin Bat residues PheB1 or LysB29. However insulins from other vertebrate species are also envisioned coupled to the Bvitamin. Such vertebrate include but not limited to bovine ovine equine primate canine and feline.

In one embodiment of the oral delivery conjugate the covalent attachment between the Vitamin Band the polypeptide is through a linker. The linker may provide a carbamate linked conjugate. In variations to this embodiment the linker is selected from the group consisting of N N carbonyldiimidazole CDI 1 3 diisopropyl carbodiimide DIPC any suitable dialkyl carbodiimide 2 halo 1 alkyl pyridinium halides Mukaiyama reagents 1 3 dimethylaminopropyl 3 ethyl carbodiimide EDC propane phosphonic acid cyclic anhydride PPACA and phenyl dichlorophosphates. One preferred linker is N N carbonyldiimidazole CDI . In another variation the linker may further comprise polyethylene glycol monomers.

A pharmaceutical composition is disclosed in accordance with another embodiment. The pharmaceutical composition comprises the above described oral delivery conjugate and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The composition may further comprise Intrinsic Factor which is preferably a human Intrinsic Factor.

In accordance with another preferred embodiment a pharmaceutical composition is described comprising an oral delivery form of insulin. The oral delivery form of insulin comprises vitamin Bcovalently coupled to insulin wherein the covalent coupling is between a dicarboxylic acid derivative of the primary 5 hydroxyl group of the ribose moiety of vitamin Band residues PheB1 or LysB29 of insulin wherein the covalent coupling optionally comprises a linker and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier suitable for oral delivery wherein the pharmaceutical composition exhibits insulin like activity when delivered orally to a mammal.

A method for treating diabetes mellitus is disclosed in accordance with another embodiment. The method comprises orally administering to a patient in need thereof an amount of the above described pharmaceutical composition sufficient to lower blood glucose concentration in the patient thereby treating the diabetes mellitus. Preferably the pharmaceutical composition is in an oral delivery form selected from the group consisting of a capsule a tablet an emulsion a colloidal dispersion an elixir a gel and a paste.

A kit is also disclosed in accordance with aspects of the invention. The kit comprises the above described pharmaceutical composition and an instruction sheet for oral administration.

Further aspects features and advantages of this invention will become apparent from the detailed description of the preferred embodiments which follow.

While the described embodiments represent the preferred embodiments of the present invention it is to be understood that modifications will occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention. The scope of the invention is therefore to be determined solely by the appended claims.

Bioactive molecules or biologically active substances include proteins peptides hormones small molecule drugs haptens antigens antibodies.

Vitamin Bconjugate refers to the bioactive molecule or biologically active substance covalently linked to Vitamin B either directly or through one or more linkers.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention insulin is conjugated to Vitamin B. Since its isolation in 1922 by Banting and Best insulin has been one of the most extensively studied molecules in biochemistry. Its primary structure Sanger et al. 1955 and chemical synthesis Meinenhofer et al. 1963 were the first established for a protein. Insulin is composed of 51 amino acids in two peptide chains A and B linked by two disulfide bonds. The three dimensional structure of the insulin molecule insulin monomer essentially the same in solution and in solid phase exists in two main conformations. These differ in the extent of helix in the B chain which is governed by the presence of phenol or its derivatives. In acid and neutral solutions in concentrations relevant for pharmaceutical formulation the insulin monomer assembles to dimers and at neutral pH in the presence of zinc ions further to hexamers. Many crystalline modifications of insulin have been identified but only those with the hexamer as the basic unit are utilized in preparations for therapy. The insulin hexamer forms a relatively stable unit but some flexibility remains within the individual molecules. The intrinsic flexibility at the ends of the B chain plays an important role in governing the physical and chemical stability of insulin. A variety of chemical changes of the primary structure yielding insulin derivatives and physical modifications of the secondary to quaternary structures resulting in denaturation aggregation and precipitation are known to affect insulin and insulin preparations during storage and use. Chemical deterioration of insulin during storage of pharmaceutical preparations is mainly due to two categories of chemical reactions hydrolysis and intermolecular transformation reactions leading to insulin HMWT products. The predominant hydrolysis reaction is deamidation of Asn residues which in acid solution takes place at residue A21 in neutral medium at residue B3.

Insulin is essential for the metabolic processing of carbohydrates fat and protein. The many insulin like biological activities include reducing blood glucose levels by allowing glucose to enter muscle cells and by stimulating the conversion of glucose to glycogen glycogenesis as a carbohydrate store. Insulin also inhibits the release of stored glucose from liver glycogen glycogenolysis and slows the breakdown of fat to triglycerides free fatty acids and ketones. It also stimulates fat storage. Additionally insulin inhibits the breakdown of protein and fat for glucose production gluconeogenesis in both liver and kidneys. Hyperglycemia results when insulin deficiency leads to uninhibited gluconeogenesis and prevents the use and storage of circulating glucose. The kidneys cannot reabsorb the excess glucose load causing glycosuria osmotic diuresis thirst and dehydration. Increased fat and protein breakdown leads to ketone production and weight loss.

Diabetes mellitus DM is a chronic metabolic disorder caused by an absolute or relative deficiency of insulin hormone. Insulin is produced by the beta cells of the islets of Langerhans located in the pancreas and the absence destruction or other loss of these cells results in type 1 DM or insulin dependent diabetes mellitus IDDM . Most children with diabetes have IDDM and a lifetime dependence on regular injections of exogenous insulin. Overall incidence is at least 15 cases per 100 000 individuals annually and probably increasing. An estimated 3 children out of 1000 develop IDDM by age 20 years. More than 700 000 Americans have type 1 DM.

Type 2 DM or non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus NIDDM is a heterogeneous disorder. Most patients with NIDDM have insulin resistance and their beta cells lack the ability to overcome this resistance. Although this form of diabetes was previously uncommon in children in some countries 20 or more of new patients with diabetes in childhood and adolescence have NIDDM a change associated with increased rates of obesity. Other patients may have inherited disorders of insulin release leading to maturity onset diabetes of the young MODY . Of the total incidence of diabetes in the U.S. NIDDM accounts for about 90 whereas IDDM accounts for the remaining 10 .

In accordance with another preferred embodiment of the invention Vitamin Bmay be conjugated to appetite suppressing peptides to provide an effective oral delivery anti obesity composition.

Obesity has reached pandemic proportions and is associated with increased morbidity and mortality National Institutes of Health Clinical guidelines on the identification evaluation and treatment of overweight and obesity in adults The evidence report 1998 See WorldWide Web at nhlbi.nih.gov guidelines obesity obgdlns.htm . Despite increasing public health education and initiatives its prevalence continues to rise with over 60 of adults in the U.S. considered overweight or obese Flegal K. M. et al. 2002 288 1723 7 . The increasing prevalence of obesity among children and adolescents is an additional concern Hedley A. A. et al. 2004 JAMA 291 2847 50 that suggests worsening obesity trends in the future Bays H. E. 2004 Obesity Res. 12 1197 211 . The National Institutes of Health NIH has recommended a 10 weight loss threshold for obesity treatment strategies as a general guideline National Heart Lung and Blood Institute Obesity Education Initiative. Clinical guidelines on the identification evaluation and treatment of overweight and obesity in adults the evidence report. Bethesda Md. US Department of Health and Human Services 1998 given that this moderate weight loss is associated with improved health including better cardiovascular risk profiles and reduced incidences of type 2 DM National Institutes of Health Clinical guidelines on the identification evaluation and treatment of overweight and obesity in adults The evidence report 1998 Padwal R. S. and S. R. Majumdar 2007 369 71 77 National Heart Lung and Blood Institute Obesity Education Initiative. Clinical guidelines on the identification evaluation and treatment of overweight and obesity in adults the evidence report. Bethesda Md. US Department of Health and Human Services. 1998 .

Anti obesity pharmacotherapy has become a commonly utilized and important treatment strategy for weight loss in the obese Padwal R. S. and S. R. Majumdar 2007 369 71 77 Bays H. and C. Dujovne 2002 11 1189 204 Bays H. E. 2004 12 1197 211 Halford J. C. 2001 2 353 70 Halford J. C. and J. E. Blundell 2000 Progress Drug Res. 54 25 58 . For an anti obesity drug to be successful two key attributes must be realized Padwal R. S. and S. R. Majumdar 2007 369 71 77 . First it should cause sustained clinically significant reductions in bodyweight and reduce obesity related morbidity and mortality. Currently prescribed anti obesity drugs produce average placebo subtracted weight losses of less than 5 Padwal R. S. and S. R. Majumdar 2007 369 71 77 over the long tem which falls below the recommendation set forth by the NIH. As such current pharmacotherapy treatment is perceived only as an adjunct treatment for the management of obesity and not as a stand alone treatment Irwin N. P. L. et al. 2007 13 400 5 . Second the benefit risk ratio of the drug must be favorable. The track record for safety of anti obesity drugs has historically been poor Padwal R. S. and S. R. Majumdar 2007 369 71 77 Bays H. and C. Dujovne 2002 11 1189 204 Bays H. E. 2004 12 1197 211 Abenhaim L. et al. 1996 335 609 16 14 and serious side effects continue to be associated with current anti obesity treatments Padwal R. S. and S. R. Majumdar 2007 369 71 77 Bays H. and C. Dujovne 2002 11 1189 204 Bays H. E. 2004 12 1197 211 Connolly H. M. et al. 1997 337 581 8 Arbeeny C. M. 2004 12 1191 6 . Given the above it has been a therapeutic and research goal to develop safe and effective anti obesity drugs Bays H. E. 2004 12 1197 211 .

Some endogenously secreted peptides have recently been identified and targeted as potential anti obesity agents as a result of their appetite suppressing effects Padwal R. S. and S. R. Majumdar 2007 369 71 77 Bays H. E. 2004 12 1197 211 Perez Tilve D. et al. 2006 29 61 71 Moran T. H. et al. 2005 288 R384 8 Morainigo R. et al. 2006 91 1735 40 Huda M. S. et al. 2006 7 163 8 . The peptides receiving the greatest attention include PYYand GLP 1.

Peptide YY PYY is a 36 amino acid hormone GenBank Accession Number CR542129.1 MVFVRRPWPALTTVLLALLVCLGALVDAYPIKPEAPGEDASPE ELNRYYASLRHYLNLVTRQRYGKRDGPDRLLSKTFFPDGEDRPVRSR SEQ ID NO 1 which together with pancreatic polypeptide PP GenBank Accession Number NM002722 MAAARLCLSLLLLSTCVALLLQPLLGAQGAPLEPVYPGDNATPEQMAQ YAADLRRYINMLTRPRYGKRHKEDTLAFSEWGSPHAAVPRELSPLDL SEQ ID NO 2 and neuropeptide Y NPY GenBank Accession Number K01911.1 MLGNKRLGLSGLTLALSLLVCLGALAEAYPSKPDNPGEDAPAEDMARYYSALRHYI NLITRQRYGKRSSPETLISDLLMRESTENVPRTRLEDPAMW SEQ ID NO 3 belongs to the pancreatic polypeptide family Boggiano M. M. et al. 2005 6 307 22 . These peptides are structurally and biologically similar but are synthesized and secreted from different sources Cerdaa Reverter J. M. et al. 2000 78 371 92 Gehlert D. R. 1998 218 7 22 . PYY is mainly present in the ileum and expressed by large intestine endocrine cells Beottcher G. et al. 1993 43 115 30 Ekblad E. and F. Sundler 2002 23 251 61 where it is released in response to nutrient ingestion proportional to the calories consumed Adrian T. E. et al. 1985 89 1070 7 . The more abundant truncated form of PYY namely PYY has received the greatest attention due to its putative effects on appetite control Boggiano M. M. et al. 2005 6 307 22 .

While central administration of PYYhas been shown to increase food intake Boggiano M. M. et al. 2005 6 307 22 Ashby D. and S. R. Bloom 2007 28 198 202 possibly via the activation of the lower affinity receptors Yand Y Kanatani A. et al. 2000 141 1011 6 peripheral or systemic administration of PYYhas been shown to inhibit food intake in rodents Batterham R. L. et al. 2002 Nature 418 650 4 Halatchev I. G. et al. 2004 145 2585 90 primates Moran T. H. et al. 2005 288 R384 8 Koegler F. R. et al. 2005 54 3198 204 and humans Batterham R. L. et al. 2003 349 941 8 le Roux C. W. et al. 2006 147 3 8 Neary N. M. et al. 2005 146 5120 7 . In rodents however the robustness of the suppression of caloric intake following both acute and chronic peripheral administration of PYY Boggiano M. M. et al. 2005 6 307 22 has been questioned since some groups have had difficulty in replicating the anorexigenic effects of peripheral PYYadministration Boggiano M. M. et al. 2005 6 307 22 Tscheop M. et al. 2004 430 p. 1 P following 165 discussion 2 p following 165 . The reasons for this are unclear but may involve the invasive nature of administration daily injections since stress may itself reduce NPY signaling Ashby D. and S. R. Bloom 2007 28 198 202 Kim R. et al. 2003 983 201 8 . In addition to appetite suppressing effects PYYhas also been shown to improve glycemic control in rodent models of diabetes Pittner R. A. et al. 2004 28 963 71 

Administration of PYYreduces appetite hunger ratings and decreases food intake in normal weight and obese subjects Batterham R. L. et al. 2003 349 941 8 le Roux C. W. et al. 2006 147 3 8 . A relatively short term 90 min infusion of PYYhas also been shown to produce a more prolonged reduction of appetite and food intake in humans Batterham R. L. et al. 2003 349 941 8 . Thus in contrast to most gastrointestinal peptides that only inhibit short term food intake PYYmay function as a medium to long term regulator of energy intake rather than as a short term satiety signal. That PYYperforms a significant role in the control of appetite in humans is supported by a number of observations. In disease states characterized by weight loss such as inflammatory bowel disease tropical sprue and cardiac cachexia PYYlevels are elevated Adrian T. E. et al. 1986 90 379 84 El Salhy M. 1998 35 194 8 le Roux C. W. et al. 2005 64 213 6 . Conversely in obese humans fasting plasma concentrations of PYVare reduced and overweight subjects have a relative deficiency of postprandial PYVrelease associated with reduced satiety Batterham R. L. et al. 2003 349 941 8 . Intravenous infusion of PYVat a rate of 0.8 pmol.kq.mininto lean humans increased mean plasma PYVlevels from 8.3 to 43.5 pM and mimicked postprandial PYVconcentrations Batterham R. L. et al. 2002 Nature 418 650 4 . Plasma PYVreturned to baseline concentrations within 30 minutes of the end of the infusion. Despite this at a free choice buffet meal 2 hours after the end of the infusion there was a significant reduction in calorie intake of approximately 36 with no effect on fluid intake or on gastric emptying as assessed by paracetamol absorption Batterham R. L. et al. 2002 Nature 418 650 4 . It is important to note that despite lower basal levels of PYVin obese humans obesity does not appear to be associated with resistance to the effects of PYV. Infusion of PYVinto a group of obese volunteers resulted in a comparable reduction in calorie intake when compared with lean controls Batterham R. L. et al. 2003 349 941 8 . Moreover PYY levels and postprandial rise are also restored in obese individuals who manage to lose weight Roth C. L. et al. 2005 90 6386 91 and who undergo gastric bypass surgery Morainigo R. et al. 2006 91 1735 40 le Roux C. W. et al. 2006 243 108 14 . Finally a recent study has demonstrated that reversible PEGylation of PYYmay prolong its inhibition of food intake via increasing its functional half life by up to eight times Shechter Y. et al. 2005 579 2439 44 .

The mechanisms of action of PYY remain to be established Ashby D. and S. R. Bloom 2007 28 198 202 Wynne K. et al. 2005 184 291 318 . Since the N terminal of PYY allows it to cross the blood brain barrier freely Nonaka N. et al. 2003 306 948 53 it is postulated that the effect of peripheral administration of PYVon appetite is mediated via the arcuate Yreceptor Broberger C. et al. 1997 66 393 408 . This relatively simple arcuate nucleus ARC model of action involving inhibition and activation of NPY and POMC neurons respectively has however more recently given way to a more complicated system likely involving vagal afferent signals Ashby D. and S. R. Bloom 2007 28 198 202 . In addition the effects of PYYon other circulating gut hormones such as a decrease in circulating ghrelin levels Batterham R. L. et al. 2003 349 941 8 cannot be precluded as concomitant appetite suppressing mechanisms.

Glucagon like peptide 1 GLP 1 GenBank Accession Number NM002054.2 MKSIYFVAGLFVMLVQGSWQRSLQDTEEKSRSFSASQADPLSDPDQ MNEDKRHSQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNTKRNRNNIAKRHDEFERHAEG TFTSDVSSYLEGQAAKEFIAWLVKGRGRRDFPEEVAIVEELGRRHADGSFSDEMNTIL DNLAARDFINWLIQTKITDRK SEQ ID NO 4 is cleaved from preproglucagon as a 36 or 37 amino acid molecule within the intestine where it is co localized in the endocrine L cells of the distal gut with PYY Eissele R. et al. 1992 22 283 91 Wettergren A. et al. 1997 32 552 5 . GLP 1 is highly conserved across a number of species implying an important physiological role. Both the 36 and 37 amino acid peptide isoforms seem to possess similar biological activities and roles although GLP 1 7 36 amide is present in greater quantities within the circulation and demonstrates a greater postprandial rise Orskov C. et al. 1994 43 535 9 .

The action of GLP 1that has attracted most attention both from a physiological and a therapeutic viewpoint is its potent incretin effect Neaslund E. et al. 2004 91 439 46 . The peptide mediates glucose dependent insulinotropic effects in a number of species including man Kreymann B. et al. 1987 2 1300 4 . GLP 1also inhibits gastric acid secretion and gastric emptying as well as suppressing glucagon release therefore reducing hepatic derived glucose and promoting an increase in pancreatic cell mass Tolessa T. et al. 1998 43 2284 90 Tolessa T. et al. 1998 102 764 74 Edvell A. and P. Lindstreom 1999 140 778 83 . As a therapeutic target there has been substantial interest in GLP 1 since actions of GLP 1 inhibition of gastric emptying decreased blood glucose concentration are preserved in subjects with poorly controlled Type 2 Diabetes Nauck M. A. et al. 1993 91 301 7 Willms B. et al. 1996 81 327 32 .

Indeed EXENATIDE Byetta FDA approved for treatment of type 2 diabetes is a potent agonist for the mammalian GLP 1 receptor and thus displays similar functional properties to native GLP 1 has been assessed as a treatment for Type 2 diabetes in three Phase 3 clinical trials the AMIGO studies . Among many positive effects of Exenatide to date are included glucose lowering and insulin sensitizing effects in diabetic mice rats and monkeys Young A. A. et al. 1999 48 1026 34 beta cell replication and neogenesis resulting in improved glucose tolerance in diabetic rats Xu G. et al. 1999 48 2270 6 as well as streptozotocin treated newborn rats Tourrel C. et al. 2001 50 1562 70 and decelerated weight gain and fat deposition in Zucker rats Szayna M. et al. 2000 141 1936 41 . Consistent with its role as an incretin GLP 1is released into the circulation in response to a meal and in proportion to the calories ingested Orskov C. et al. 1994 43 535 9 Kreymann B. et al. 1987 2 1300 4 .

Both CNS injected and peripherally administered GLP 1inhibit food intake in a number of species wherein the site of action appears to be the brainstem hypothalamus axis Turton M. D. et al. 1996 379 69 72 . GLP 1dose dependently decreases appetite and caloric intake in lean and obese humans and patients with diabetes Gutzwiller J. P. et al. 2004 82 17 9 Gutzwiller J. P. et al. 1999 276 R1541 4 Neaslund E. et al. 1999 23 304 11 . In a recent meta analysis it was concluded that infusion of GLP 1reduces both appetite and food intake the latter by an average of 11.7 acutely Verdich C. et al. 2001 86 4382 9 . The magnitude of this reduction is similar in lean and obese men. Prandial subcutaneous injections of GLP 1given to obese but otherwise healthy subjects for 5 days resulted in a weight loss of 0.55 kg Neaslund E. et al. 2004 91 439 46 . One potential barrier to the use of native GLP 1in a clinical setting is its short half life approximately 2 min . Since reversible PEGylation has previously been shown to increase the functional half life of PYYby up to eight times Shechter Y. et al. 2005 579 2439 44 the effect of conjugating at position 1 of GLP 1 enzyme dipeptidyl peptidase IV degrades GLP 1 at the alanine located at position 2 see Methods section for further information also is envisioned to result in extended in vivo activity of GLP 1. Indeed a GLP 1 receptor agonist GLP 1 glucagon hybrid peptide has recently been PEGylated see methods section which resulted in a dramatically prolonged activity in vivo Claus T. R. et al. 2007 192 371 80 .

While the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus was the initial focus of studies linking GLP 1 actions to satiety several studies have now demonstrated using direct injection approaches that multiple brain regions are capable of eliciting a CNS satiety effect in response to GLP 1 including the lateral dorsomedial and ventromedial hypothalamus but not the medial nucleus of the amygdala Schick R R et al. 2003 284 R1427 35 Alpers D. and G. Russell Jones in R Banerjee Editor. 1999 Wiley Interscience . The mechanisms transducing the anorectic actions of GLP 1R agonists appear to overlap with those activated by PYY but distinct pathways are identified for these peptides since additive effects are observed with co administration Neary N. M. et al. 2005 146 5120 7 .

In summary PYYand GLP 1are endogenously occurring peptides that in addition to improving glycemic control have also been identified as having appetite suppressing effects. Furthermore previous research investigating the concurrent administration of these peptides has identified an additive effect of these peptides on appetite suppression Neary N. M. et al. 2005 146 5120 7 . Finally both of these peptides have previously been conjugated wherein their potency remained unaffected. Current anti obesity pharmacotherapy is aimed among other things at stimulating the release of these peptides or at mimicking these peptides appetite suppressing response. We envision that by using the naturally occurring Buptake pathway that we develop an oral administration route for these peptides. This is examined using the same principles and techniques that enabled the successful delivery of orally administered insulin as described below .

Embodiments of the invention are directed to complexes which include a bioactive substance linked to at least one carrier molecule which is Vitamin Bor an adenosylcobalamin methylcobalamin cyanocobalamin aquocobalamin glutathionylcobalamin hydroxycobalamin cyanocobalamin carbanalide and 5 o methylbenzylcobalmin 5 OMeBza CN Cbl as well as the desdimethyl monoethylamide and the methylamide analogs of all of the above. Also included are the various analogs and homologs of cobalamin such as coenzyme Vitamin Band 5 deoxyadenosylcobalamin. Other analogs include chlorocobalamin sulfitocobalamin nitrocobalamin thiocyanatocobalamin benzimidazole derivatives such as 5 6 dichlorobenzimidazole 5 hydroxybenzimidazole trimethylbenzimidazole as well as adenosylcyanocobalamin Ade CN Cbl cobalamin lactone cobalamin lactam and the anilide ethylamide monocarboxylic and dicarboxylic acid derivatives of Vitamin Bor its analogs. Both the ability of the Vitamin Bportion of the conjugate to undergo binding reactions for uptake and transport in a vertebrate host and the activity of the biologically active substance are substantially maintained.

Preferred embodiments of the invention are directed to biologically active substances such as proteins and peptides covalently linked to Vitamin B. The biologically active substance Vitamin Bconjugate has the advantage that biologically active substance may be administered orally rather than by intravenous injection. It avoids the side effects of other non invasive routes of administration such as nasal or pulmonary administration. Administration of the biologically active substance Vitamin Bconjugate has the further advantage that a necessary vitamin is co administered. The biologically active substance Vitamin Bconjugate has a long lived mode of action which is a further advantage regardless of how the conjugate is administered.

Preferred derivatives of Vitamin Binclude the mono di and tricarboxylic acid derivatives or the proprionamide derivatives of Vitamin B. Carriers may also include analogs of Vitamin Bin which the cobalt is replaced by zinc or nickel. The corrin ring of Vitamin Bor its analogs may also be substituted with any substituent which does not affect its binding to Intrinsic Factor.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention there is provided a covalently linked conjugate comprising a Vitamin Bcovalently linked to peptide in particular the peptide is selected from insulin insulin analogs PYY and analogs thereof such as PYY GLP 1 and cholecystokinin CCK peptides particularly CCK 8 peptides. More preferably the peptide is selected from insulin insulin peptide fragments insulin peptide precursors insulin like growth factors or insulin analogs. The peptides are preferably from mammalian sources more preferably human sources.

Mammals have an active transport mechanism in the GIT for the absorption and cellular uptake of the relatively large Vitamin Bmolecule 1350 Da see . Embodiments of the delivery system take advantage of the natural Intrinsic Factor mediated uptake mechanism for dietary Vitamin B see to overcome the two major hurdles of enteric delivery namely protection of biologically active substance from GIT proteolysis and uptake and transcytoses of the enterocyte.

Vitamin Bfirst binds to haptocorrin a salivary enzyme that protects and transports Vitamin Bthrough the stomach and into the small intestine. The Vitamin Bthen binds to Intrinsic Factor and proceeds down the small intestine where the complex binds to the IF receptor on the ileum wall. The Intrinsic Factor Vitamin Breceptor complex then undergoes endocytosis releasing Vitamin Binto the blood serum where it becomes bound to transcobalamin II TCII . Embodiments of the invention adapt this uptake pathway for the delivery of a biologically active substance such as a biologically active protein. The recognition of and affinity for the various binding Vitamin Bproteins is maintained. Conjugation to Vitamin Bprotects bound proteins from digestion and also facilitates their internalization and transport into blood serum overcoming the two major hurdles for oral delivery of biologically active substances. In people with impaired Vitamin Buptake research has shown that co administration of Intrinsic Factor alongside Vitamin Bgreatly increases uptake WO 03 026674 .

In some preferred embodiments Intrinsic Factor is co administered along with the Vitamin Bconjugate to increase uptake of the Vitamin B biologically active substance conjugate.

Embodiments of the invention include Vitamin Bconjugates that can be used to deliver a biologically active substance to any uni or multicellular organism with a requirement for and a specific transport mechanism for Vitamin B.

Vitamin Balso undergoes what is termed enterohepatic recirculation from bile salts Chapter 15 pages 406 407 Banerjee Ruma Ed Wiley Interscience 1999 . This recycling of Vitamin Bis vital in ensuring Vitamin Bdeficiency does not occur. By coupling biologically active substance to Vitamin B this recirculation will result in a longer mean residency time for biologically active substance essentially producing a long acting biologically active substance. The side product of this process will be a dose of Vitamin B. In preferred embodiments the biologically active substance is insulin and coupling to Vitamin Bresults in a longer mean residency time compared to unconjugated insulin. Since many people with Diabetes Mellitus are Vitamin Bdeficient administration of Vitamin Bis an additional benefit to this approach.

The major advantages of this system then are 1 oral delivery 2 the potential to increase uptake or tailor uptake with Intrinsic Factor co administration 3 no catalytic additives being required for the absorption of biologically active substance instead a necessary vitamin is administered and 4 enterohepatic recirculation for extended residence times in vivo. These points will make this system suitable as a basal therapy that will have high patient compliance. Preferred embodiments are directed to a basal therapy to be administered once or twice daily total duration of action being 24 hrs minimal peak in activity .

Both the attachment point on the protein and the attachment point on the Vitamin Bmust be carefully considered. Attachment cannot be anywhere on the biologically active substance molecule without loss of activity or compromising stability. Attachment of the Vitamin Bto the protein potentially affects the three dimensional structure which in turn may affect biologically active substance effectiveness and stability.

In preferred embodiments the Vitamin Band biologically active substance are coupled together in such a way that neither molecule is inhibited by the other. Preferably the vitamin is recognized by the series of enzymes involved in its uptake through the GIT so that the biologically active substance interacts with its receptor to induce the cascade effect. In preferred embodiments specific sites on both molecules are chosen for conjugation wherein the sites are known not to be important for recognition and activity. In some embodiments the Vitamin Band biologically active substance will be coupled directly together. In more preferred embodiments Vitamin Band the bioactive molecule are coupled with a linker. More preferably the Vitamin Band biologically active substance are held apart by spacer units to produce distance between the Vitamin Band biologically active substance.

In some embodiments the spacer units are provided by polyethylene glycol PEG monomers. In some embodiments the mean residence time of the biologically active substance is increased by the use of long chain polyethylene glycol PEG units 750 10000 Da . Conjugates of the type Vitamin B PEG biologically active substance are produced.

It has been extensively reported in the literature that PEG conjugates exhibit increased plasma half lives improved resistance to proteolysis reduced immunogenicity and antigenicity compared to parental compounds including proteins Van Spriel A. B. et al. 2000 12 666 670 Park Y. et al. 2002 13 232 239 Werle M. et al. 2006 30 351 367 Pasut Gianfranco et al. 192 95 134 .

In some embodiments the conjugates are coupled through bifunctional PEG units with a stable bond at the biologically active substance PEG junction but a reversible bond at the Vitamin B PEG junction e.g. a disulfide bond sensitive to reducing agents in blood serum to achieve targeted release. This approach provides a longer lived biologically active substance compared to non PEGylated forms which is transported orally. Besides providing for optimization of the spacing between the Vitamin Band the biologically active molecule the PEG linkers provide better uptake and longer lifetime for the biologically active substance.

There are three potential attachment sites on the Vitamin Bmolecule as shown in . Stability of the attached protein must be maximized and the protein must maintain at least a substantial portion of activity after attachment. Preferably at least 20 of the activity is maintained after attachment to Vitamin B more preferably at least 30 yet more preferably at least 40 yet more preferably at least 50 yet more preferably at least 60 yet more preferably at least 70 yet more preferably at least 80 yet more preferably at least 90 yet more preferably at least 95 and most preferably 100 activity compared to the native protein.

In some embodiments there is no linker and attachment is directly between Vitamin Band biologically active substance. In preferred embodiments a linker is used. The linker may be of various lengths. In preferred embodiments the linker may be about 3 150 atoms in length more preferably about 3 100 atoms in length and most preferably about 3 40 atoms in length. In general longer linkers improve stability and function as they allow for some distance of the peptide or protein from Vitamin Band proper folding of the protein portion of the conjugate. Preferred linkers include carbamate based linkers assembled using a N N carbonyldiimidazole CDI . A non limiting list of suitable coupling agents also include 1 3 diisopropyl carbodiimide DIPC any suitable dialkyl carbodiimide 2 halo 1 alkyl pyridinium halides Mukaiyama reagents 1 3 dimethylaminopropyl 3 ethyl carbodiimide EDC propane phosphonic acid cyclic anhydride PPACA and phenyl dichlorophosphates etc. which are available for example from commercial sources such as Sigma Aldrich Chemical or synthesized using known techniques.

As discussed above in some embodiments one or more PEG monomers are added to optimize the distance between the Vitamin Band the biologically active substance.

The some embodiments the linker may be degradable. The degradation may occur naturally in the body or require the administration of a second factor to trigger degradation of the linker and release of free biologically active substance from the Vitamin B biologically active substance complex. Examples of such degradable linkers include disulfide bonds thioesters esters carbamates and thioethers.

Conjugation of insulin may take place on the Vitamin Bat one of three major sites see 1 the cobalamin s axial site at the cobalt atom 2 direct conjugation of insulin to the peripheral corrin ring propionamide units there are three but the position avoids Intrinsic Factor uptake interference and 3 through the 5 hydroxy group of the ribose unit of the tail of Vitamin B. In preferred embodiments conjugation of Vitamin B12 to the biologically active material is at site no. 3 that is at the 5 hydroxy group of the ribose unit of the a unit.

In some embodiments the Vitamin B conjugated biologically active substance may be encapsulated in protective liposomes for greater improvement in stability.

Embodiments of the invention provide for extended release by enterohepatic recirculation of Vitamin B12.

Insulin and Vitamin Bare coupled either directly or through short to long chain linkers. The system allows the Vitamin Buptake pathway to protect insulin from digestion and deliver it to blood serum but does not interfere with insulin s activity. Three possible sites on Vitamin B12 for attachment are shown in . These are cobalt conjugation propionamide conjugation and ribose 5 O conjugation. In preferred embodiments insulin is attached at the OH of the ribose ring. Various sites on insulin may provide suitable coupling locations. The link between Vitamin Band insulin may also be varied to optimize activity. Varying linker lengths may play a role in the balance between successful uptake and suitable activity. PEG monomers are useful to optimize the length of the linker sequence.

Embodiments of the invention are directed to synthesized complexes of the type Vitamin B Insulin directly conjugated or Vitamin B spacer Insulin. In preferred embodiments the spacer groups between the insulin and Vitamin Bare short bifunctional alkyl chains of varying lengths typically 3 40 atoms which facilitate both the conjugation of Vitamin Band insulin and provide varying degrees of separation between the two. In this embodiment the Vitamin Band insulin are coupled irreversibly. However degradable linkers may also be used.

In preferred embodiments conjugation to both bovine and human insulin is achieved by covalently linking Vitamin Bor Vitamin B spacers 3 40 atoms to the PheB1 or LysB29 residues. It has been determined previously that these amino acids do not participate in receptor binding and mutation does interfere with insulin activity in vivo Hinds K et al. 2000 11 195 201 . In a most preferred embodiment the prepared conjugate has been based on the LysB29. In some embodiments a protecting group is applied for protection of insulin s terminal amines as when coupling to LysB29. This can be readily achieved using dimethyl maleic anhydride coupled specifically at pH 6.8 6.9. Irreversible conjugation itself may be achieved using organic chemistry conjugate chemistry techniques as appropriate.

In an alternate preferred embodiment insulin is reversibly coupled to Vitamin B. In this embodiment the Vitamin Bfacilitates insulin s enteric transport and uptake but then the insulin is released once the conjugate arrives in the blood. Greater spacing between the sterically bulky insulin and Vitamin Bmay also offer greater IF binding to increase conjugate efficacy. This embodiment provides an oral delivery route for insulin but rules out extended presence of active insulin through Vitamin Bdependent enterohepatic circulation.

In some embodiments insulin mean residence time is increased by the use of long chain polyethylene glycol PEG units 750 10000 Da . Conjugates of the type Vitamin B PEG Insulin are produced as discussed generally above.

In some embodiments the conjugates are coupled through bifunctional PEG units with a stable bond at the insulin PEG junction but a reversible bond at the Vitamin B PEG junction e.g. a disulfide bond sensitive to reducing agents in blood serum to achieve targeted release. This approach provides a longer lived insulin compared to non PEGylated forms which is transported orally.

As will be apparent to those skilled in the art the strategies discussed above can be combined to produce an insulin Vitamin Bconjugate with the desired properties. Combined the two approaches involving short or long chain spacers reversibly or irreversibly coupled offer an extensive ability to diversify and optimize the system to produce the desired uptake activity and longevity.

Superior convenience compared to intravenous administration leads to high patient compliance. Embodiments of the invention provide a biologically active substance that meets the requirements of a sustained basal insulin level for people with diabetes by utilizing the natural dietary uptake pathway of Vitamin B.

Insulin folding studies and insulin receptor binding assays confirm active insulin is present while bound to Vitamin B. The insulin may be modified at the N terminus of the B chain with a fluorescent tag. It has been demonstrated that modification at this position does not greatly affect biological activity or standard insulin assays 70 activity relative to natural insulin has been observed WO 02 36169. Kaneda Norio et al. 1983 94 1317 28 . This fluorescent tag fluorescein may be used to facilitate the study of conjugate binding to the insulin receptor as well as insulin binding assays followed by fluorescence polarization and or flow cytometry techniques.

Experiments are conducted in streptozotocin STZ treated rats to determine the uptake kinetics and efficiency of the Vitamin B insulin systems. The end points to be assessed are blood insulin and glucose concentration.

The successful uptake of the synthesized Vitamin B insulin conjugates prepared according to embodiments of the invention is assessed. The biological efficiency of this delivery system is determined by monitoring acute changes in blood glucose and insulin concentration. In preferred embodiments an animal model is used most preferably the streptozotocin STZ treated rat a model of type 1 diabetes.

In some embodiments the STZ is administered through a cannula inserted in the jugular vein. Since blood glucose concentrations will be elevated in this model a change in the blood glucose concentration is indicative that the oral insulin delivery was successful and will provide a means for measuring the biological efficiency. In preferred embodiments assays for the presence and quantification of insulin and C Peptide DPC in plasma are conducted to support the observed changes in blood glucose.

The B insulin conjugate binding to the insulin receptor is assessed using PNMR by following phosphorylation of the insulin receptors tyrosine residues.

Vitamin Bis coupled both reversibly and irreversibly through short to long chain linkers to peptide YY PYY or glucagon like peptide 1 GLP 1 . We build and optimize a system that allows the Buptake pathway to protect these peptides from digestion and deliver them to blood serum and subsequently to the brain without diminishing their activity. To achieve this a number of suitable coupling locations on both Band the particular peptide are explored. The link between Band the particular peptide is also varied to optimize activity. Varying linker lengths play an important role in the balance between successful uptake and suitable activity.

We validate that the B peptide conjugates are successfully synthesized including that conjugation has occurred at the desired coupling sites. Protein folding studies circular dichroism and nuclear magnetic resonance and receptor binding assays e.g. TCII receptor provide information on structure and confirm in vitro activity of each particular conjugate. Binding assays for Buptake proteins Intrinsic Factor and transcobalamin TCII are conducted to ensure the enzymes involved in the Btransport pathway still recognize Band are not inhibited by the presence of each peptide. Receptor binding experiments for PYY and GLP 1 are conducted. Experiments to gauge whether conjugation provides greater stability to gastrointestinal enzymes are also conducted.

To assess bioavailability of the conjugates characterized in the study above both uptake studies and short term 5 hours feeding studies are conducted using Sprague Dawley SD rats and diet induced obese SD DIOSD rats. The uptake studies assess the extent to which peptides appear in the systemic circulation by measuring their concentration RIA in response to conjugate administration by oral gavage. The short term feeding studies assess alterations in food and water intake five hours post administration in response to conjugate administration by oral gavage. Oral gavage is performed during the conscious state.

The present invention enables the delivery of PYYand GLP 1 into the systemic circulatory system following their oral administration using the Vitamin Buptake pathway wherein the PYYand GLP 1 both retain their biological activity.

This invention has direct relevance to the development of anti obesity drug treatments that will be associated with 1 high efficacy rates due to their appetite suppressing effects and concomitant benefits to obesity related disease 2 high rates of compliance due to their mode of administration orally 3 high benefit risk ratios due to the combination of endogenously released compounds and vitamin B. Each point is developed further below 

To adapt this uptake pathway for neuro peptide delivery the recognition of and affinity for the various binding Bproteins must not be lost or grossly diminished. Using insulin as the lead compound we synthesized and demonstrated both in vitro and in vivo the successful conjugation of a peptide hormone to B see Examples . Conjugation to Bthen both protects bound proteins from digestion and also facilitates their internalization and transport into blood serum overcoming the two major hurdles for oral peptide delivery mentioned earlier. Given that brain delivery is required for the function of neuro peptides such as PYY it is important to note that vitamin Bcan cross the blood brain barrier in a process believed to be mediated by TCII Hansen M. and E. Nex 1987 926 359 64 Lazar G. S. and R Carmel 1981 97 123 33 Zetterberg H. et al. 2003 49 1195 8 . In people with impaired or inefficient Buptake the co administration of IF with Bmay enhance the GIT uptake process Alpers D. and G. Russell Jones in R Banerjee Editor. 1999 Wiley Interscience .

Reabsorption may also be achieved by maintaining high affinity for IF. Due to the physiological importance of B after being secreted into bile Bmay be reabsorbed through a highly efficient enterohepatic recirculation pathway. This implies that each peptide when bound irreversibly to B may be recirculated allowing for extended therapeutic activity longer mean residency time akin to the use of PEGylation technologies with PYY Shechter Y. et al. 2005 579 2439 44 .

A critical component to the success of this delivery strategy is that the uptake capacity of the Bpathway is sufficient to meet the necessary increase in plasma PYYand GLP 1levels required to suppress appetite. Using the Buptake pathway it is expected that we will be able to deliver 1.1 nmoles of peptide per dose into the systemic circulation at an efficiency of 25 6 1998 Institute of Medicine The National Academies Press. p. 306 308 . Given that IF mediated endocytosis via Cubulin is the limiting step in this process it is important to note that Cubulin recycles every 30 min Bose S. et al. 1997 272 3538 43 and as such multiple dosing e.g. every 45 min may be adopted to increase the quantity of peptide absorbed Alsenz L. et al. 2000 17 825 32 . This recycling may also be important when considering dietary Bcompetition.

With respect to PYY obese and lean subjects receiving a total dose of 2 nmol mof body surface area during a 90 min infusion period decreased their caloric intake by 30 and 31 respectively Batterham R. L. et al. 2003 349 941 8 . With respect to GLP 1 intravenous infusions of GLP 1 72 pmol.h for 390 min reduced the rise in ghrelin levels in the late postprandial period and it is this suppression of ghrelin that may be involved in GLP 1 s anorexic effects Hagemann D. et al. 2007 143 64 8 . These studies indicate that the anticipated rise in plasma PYYand GLP 1concentrations using the oral Buptake pathway is comparable to rates of infusion adopted within these studies.

The major advantages of this delivery system then are 1 oral delivery 2 both GLP 1 and PYYhave previously been shown to maintain biological potency when conjugated 3 Bis able to cross the blood brain barrier 4 the quantity of peptide that is required for clinical efficacy is well within the Buptake capacity.

Ultimately the final compound that is administered is a conjugate of Band an endogenously occurring peptide. No known toxicity of vitamin Bhas been reported and only minimum intake recommendations are established. Moreover the prevalence of deficiencies in Vitamin Bare quite common in obese and diabetic patients indicating a possible further therapeutic role for the Bcompound Daousi C. et al. 2005 90 5025 30 . With respect to the endogenously occurring peptides it seems unlikely that short term risks may be associated with their administration and to date no such risks have been reported. The major perceivable risk associated with this proposed anti obesity drug revolves around the development of a resistance to the action of the peptide over the long term. This is unlikely to occur however considering that this treatment will result in the administration of peptides comparable to their physiological levels only. Furthermore since increased meal frequency a condition expected to result in a greater release of these endogenous peptides is associated with greater appetite control Speechly D. P. and R Buffenstein 1999 33 285 97 it lends support to the notion that resistance to these peptides is unlikely to occur at physiological levels receptor expression is changed in response to acute elevations in these peptides however resistance has to date not been observed .

The unique uptake pathway provides an innovative approach to delivering appetite suppressing peptides via oral ingestion by evading gastrointestinal proteolysis and increasing intestinal absorption. Peripheral administration of these compounds at levels well within the capacity of the proposed uptake pathway have previously been shown to demonstrate efficacious appetite suppressing properties in a variety of rodent and non human primate models as well as both lean and obese humans with and without Type 2 DM. An acute caloric reduction of up to 31 has been achieved with the delivery of these peptides. Given that a 10 weight loss threshold has previously been recommended and that current anti obesity drugs only achieve a 5 placebo subtracted reduction in body weight it is conceivable that these peptides will be successful. As a comparison sibutramine one of only three FDA approved drugs for chronic weight loss has been shown to reduce acute caloric intake by 16 in a group of obese subjects versus the 30 observed in the study of Batterham et al. 2003 349 941 8 using PYY which corresponded to a mean weight loss of 10 Barkeling B. et al. 2003 27 693 700 .

Since current routes of study related to these peptides require repeated injections this innovative delivery strategy then offers a novel means in which to not only deliver the peptides but also to study the action of these peptides. In particular since multiple injections induce stress in the animal models utilized which has been touted as the underpinning reason for the large variations observed with PYY our full understanding of the effects of these peptides has been impeded.

Finally the peptides in this application are envisioned to have many therapeutic applications that are beneficial to obesity related morbidities.

In a further embodiment of the invention there is provided a medicament which comprises a complex according to the invention together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

Administration may be oral transdermal buccal by inhalation by rectal or vaginal suppository. Administration may be by injection. Injection may be subcutaneous or intravenous. Injection may be by catheter or syringe. In preferred embodiments administration is oral.

Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and diluents include typical carriers and diluents such as sodium bicarbonate solutions and similar diluents which neutralize stomach acid or have similar buffering capacity glycols oils oil in water or water in oil emulsions and include medicaments in the form of emulsions gels pastes and viscous colloidal dispersions. The medicament may be presented in capsule tablet slow release or elixir form or as a gel or paste. Furthermore the medicament may be provided as a live stock feed or as food suitable for human consumption.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include conventional excipients such as binders including gelatin pre gelatinized starch and the like lubricants such as hydrogenated vegetable oil stearic acid and the like diluents such as lactose mannose and sucrose disintegants such as carboxymethyl cellulose and sodium starch glycolate suspending agents such as povidone polyvinyl alcohol and the like absorbents such as silicon dioxide preservative such as methylparaben propylparaben and sodium benzoate surfactants such as sodium lauryl sulfate polysorbate 80 and the like and colorants such as F.D C. dyes and the like.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers may be either solid or liquid form. Solid form preparations include powders tablets dispersible granules capsules and cachets. A solid carrier is suitably one or more substances which may also act as diluents flavoring agents solubilizers lubricants suspending agents binders or tablet disintegrating agents. The solid carrier material also includes encapsulating material. In powders the carrier is finely divided active compounds. In the tablet the active compound is mixed with the carrier having the necessary binding properties in suitable proportions and compacted in the shape and size desired. Suitable solid carriers include but are not limited to magnesium carbonate magnesium stearate talc sugar lactose pectin dextrin starch gelatin tragacanth methylcellulose sodium carboxymethylcellulose a low melting wax cocoa butter and the like. Delivery may use a sustained release form.

Liquid form preparations include solutions suspensions and emulsions. Aqueous solutions suitable for oral use are prepared by dissolving the active component in water or other suitable liquid and adding suitable colorants flavors stabilizing agents and thickening agents as desired. Aqueous solutions suitable for oral use may also be made by dispersing the finely divided active component in water or other suitable liquid with viscous material such as natural or synthetic gums resins methylcellulose sodium carboxymethylcellulose and other suspending agents known in the art.

Also included are solid form preparations which are intended to be converted shortly before use to liquid form preparations for either oral or parental administration. Such liquid forms include solutions suspensions and emulsions. These particular solid form preparations are provided in unit dose form and as such are used to provide a single liquid dosage unit. Alternatively sufficient solid preparation may be provided so that the after conversion to liquid form multiple individual liquid doses may be obtained by measuring predetermined volumes of the liquid form preparation as with a syringe teaspoon or other volumetric measuring device.

Pharmaceutical compositions for injection comprise appropriate physiologically acceptable carriers. A variety of aqueous carriers may be used e.g. buffered water saline 0.3 glycine and the like. Stabilizers such as plant derived glycoproteins albumin lipoprotein fibronectin and or globulin may also be added. Other components of the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can include pharmaceutically acceptable auxiliary substances as required to approximate physiological conditions such as pH adjusting and buffering agents tonicity adjusting agents and the like for example sodium acetate sodium lactate sodium chloride potassium chloride calcium chloride etc.

The solid and liquid forms may contain in addition to the active material flavorants colorants stabilizers buffers artificial and natural sweeteners dispersants thickeners solubilizing agents and the like. The liquid utilized for preparing the liquid form preparation is suitably water isotonic water ethanol glycerin propylene glycol and the like as well as combinations thereof. The liquid utilized will be chosen with regard to the route of administration.

In some embodiments the conjugate is administered as a chewing gum. The conjugate may be included in a known chewing gum composition such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 078 052 which is incorporated herein by reference. The chewing gum can be low or high moisture sugar or sugarless wax containing or wax free low calorie via high base or low calorie bulking agents and or may contain dental agents.

Chewing gum generally consists of a water insoluble gum base a water soluble portion and flavor. The water soluble portion contains the conjugate and optionally flavor and dissipates with a portion of the conjugate over a period of time during chewing. The gum base portion is retained in the mouth throughout the chew.

The insoluble gum base generally comprises elastomers resins fats and oils softeners and inorganic fillers. The gum base may or may not include wax. The insoluble gum base can constitute approximately 5 to about 95 by weight of the chewing gum more commonly the gum base comprises 10 to about 50 of the gum and in some preferred embodiments approximately 25 to about 35 by weight of the chewing gum.

Preferably the preparations are unit dosage form. In such form the preparation is subdivided into unit doses containing appropriate quantities of the active components. The unit dosage form can be a packaged preparation such as packaged tablets or capsules. The unit dosage can be a capsule cachet or tablet itself or it can be the appropriate number of any of these in packaged form.

The quantity of active material in a unit dose of preparation is varied according to the particular application and potency of the active ingredients.

Embodiments of the invention provide a method of delivering an active substance to any uni or multicellular organism including bacteria protozoa or parasites which has a requirement for Vitamin Bas well as a specific uptake mechanism for the same which method comprises administering a complex of the invention to the organism.

Vitamin Bmediated insulin delivery was systematically investigated. The results on the synthesis characterization and purification of a novel B insulin conjugate with hypoglycemic properties as tested in vivo in STZ induced diabetic rats are presented below.

Bovine insulin was directly conjugated using CDI on the B strand at lysine29 K29 to the 5 hydroxyl group of the ligand of Bto provide a carbamate linked conjugate. Coupling of insulin through the B5 OH ribose group was performed because previous work had established that coupling at this position did not interfere with recognition by Buptake proteins G. J. Russell Jones et al. 1995 6 34 42 H.P.C. Hogenkamp et al. in R. Banerjee Wiley New York 1999 pp. 385 410 A. M. Mitchell et al. in Vol. 27 P. A. Frey and D. B. Northrop Ios Press Amsterdam 1999 pp. 150 154 . The reason for this is illustrated in for Binteraction with transcobalamin II TCII . The Bribose unit is clearly solvent accessible and not involved in key recognition interactions. Studies on insulin conjugates and key residues involved in insulin receptor interactions offered several positions particularly on the B strand where conjugation could be performed. LysineB29 was chosen for ease of synthesis the only two other amines both N termini can be readily selectively protected for example and because it was known to be important for insulin oligomerization but not activity the insulin monomer is considered the active species in vivo .

Despite modification at this point it is worth noting that experiments performed in any buffer containing high concentrations of divalent cations or with high ionic strength such as phosphate buffered saline still resulted in significant insulin polydispersity. This polydispersity was consistent with the presence of insulin oligomer formation dimer and hexamer as confirmed by velocity ultracentrifugation and CReverse phase HPLC. These oligomers can aggregate and precipitate and also greatly hinder purification of the desired B insulin conjugate. Mutation or modification of residues in the C terminal region of the B strand of insulin especially the Thr Proor Lyspositions has a dramatic effect on insulin association greatly reducing dimer and hexamer formation. Given that Bis conjugated to insulin at LysB29 oligomer formation likely proceeds through a process other than the antiparallel beta strand formation between two insulin C terminal regions. This is likely zinc based interactions with residues such as HistidineB10. Conjugation to the C terminal region does not appear to prevent oligomerization and conditions that promote such oligomerization are preferably avoided to obtain in a facile manner the desired B insulin conjugate. This is preferably achieved in low molarity chelex washed HEPES containing EDTA.

Coupling was attempted at pH s ranging from 6.8 to 9.7 using coupling agents such as CDI and 1 1 carbonyldi 1 2 4 triazole . CDI proved the most successful especially when used in large excess 3 to 5 fold relative to B . More alkaline pH produced better conjugation results but prolonged exposure to such a high pH resulted in precipitation presumably due to insulin aggregation or deamination. As a result upon completion of coupling at pH 9.7 dialysis was performed in 50 mM HEPES at pH 6.8 to both remove impurities such as CDI and unreacted B but also to bring the pH into a region where these problems are minimized. Purification was achieved by dialysis to remove reagents under 3 500 molecular weight followed by anion exchange chromatography to remove residual unconjugated insulin .

Data for B insulin in matrix containing no DTT and 10 mm ODTT are shown in inset . ODTT reduces the disulfide links between both insulin strands. Both traces show a mix of free insulin control and B insulin conjugate m z M for free insulin at 5734 1 at 7091.9 with 10 mm DTT m z M insulin A strand at 2717.00 B strand at 4040.67 B strand Bat 5400.00 insulin at 5755.92 and insulin Bat 7181.30. Note the presence of Bbound only to the insulin B strand with no A strand Bobserved. b Circular dichroism melting experiments at 222 nm showing B insulin. Result is consistent with folded insulin helical nature can be seen in . c Velocity ultracentrifugation plot showing single species indicative of monomeric B insulin.

With reference to the bases for this structure can be found in the Protein Data Bank including the TCII Bcomplex reported in PDB entry 2BB5 the only hack in the structure calculation involved the replacement of the cobalt for iron to use already available bond parameters and the insulin structure reported in PDB entry 1ZNI. The covalent attachment of the insulin to Bis described below. Structure manipulation was performed with a combination of NanoEngineer 1 and VMD VMD being included in the mix in order to generate the ribbon renderings of the insulin and TCII protein backbones. As for the accuracy of the calculation time and a synchrotron X ray source will tell. The picture shows an orally active glucose lowering vitamin B insulin conjugate bound to the Buptake protein transcobalamin II TCII . The inset shows a close up view of the TCII binding pocket. Insulin is in red vitamin Bis in bright yellow. 

Velocity ultracentrifugation experiments were performed to verify the presence of only one species in the final purified sample . The species had an average molecular weight at 270 nm of 7 000 g mol 1 weighs 7 200 g mol calculated from the experimentally derived sedimentation coefficient of 1.29 10s. This is comparable with literature values of 1.25 10 1.65 10and 1.84 10s for the insulin monomer 5733 g mol dimer 11466 g mol and hexamer 34 398 g mol respectively S. Kunze et al. 2004 43 5025 9 . This indicates a new monodisperse sample has been obtained.

MALDI TOF Mass spectrometry experiments in matrix with and without the reducing agent dithiothreitol DTT established that the desired conjugate had been synthesized and that the Bis not conjugated to insulin on the A strand which would have indicated failed protection of the terminal amines . No multiple conjugates e.g. 2 1 Bto insulin were observed by MALDI TOF or SDS PAGE electrophoresis. This was further supported by velocity ultracentrifugation experiments.

Melting temperature circular dichroism studies 222 nm confirm the insulin is still folded resulting in a melting temperature at 65 C. similar to unconjugated insulin controls. Electronic absorption analysis shows maxima consistent with both the presence of Band insulin and the peak at 361 nm of 27 500 M 1 cm was used to calculate solution concentration A. O. Hill et al. 1965 46 2859 65 . The B insulin conjugate has been prepared at concentrations up to 27 M . Spectrophotometric Intrinsic Factor IF in vitro binding studies confirm that the key enzyme in the Buptake pathway is recognizing the B insulin conjugate.

To examine the in vivo efficacy of the B insulin conjugate blood from the STZ induced diabetic rat model was sampled by means of a jugular catheter prior to and subsequent to oral administration of the B insulin conjugate and compared to the blood glucose response following administration of an equimolar solution of free insulin and B .

Prior to administration of compounds via oral gavage fasting 4 h blood glucose levels confirmed that rats were hyperglycemic 15.6 0.8 mmol L SEM indicating that an insulin deficient state had been achieved.

Results identified that the B insulin conjugate was associated with a 4.7 fold greater decrease in the area under the blood glucose curve p 0.056 when compared to the blood glucose response to the administration of free insulin. To identify whether the corresponding change in blood glucose concentration was mediated by a B dependent uptake pathway the blood glucose concentration in response to the B insulin conjugate administration was compared to the blood glucose response to an identical dose of the B insulin conjugate dissolved in 10 fold excess B and B . There was a significant p 0.022 decrease in the blood glucose response when the B insulin conjugate was dissolved in 10 fold excess B. It is worth noting that the presence of excess Bdid not result in oligomerization of the conjugate as followed by analytical HPLC.

Results obtained from the oral administration of the B insulin conjugate indicate that the conjugate is more effective than free insulin in reducing blood glucose levels and B . Furthermore when compared to results obtained in the B excess trials it is clear that the glucose lowering effects of the B insulin conjugate are mediated by the Buptake mechanism. The nadir in the blood glucose response in the present study occurred at 4 h which is consistent with previous pharmacokinetic experiments with orally administered radiolabelled B J. D. Bagnato et al. 2004 69 8987 96 .

Given that excessive blood sampling may stimulate the release of catecholamines the experiments were terminated by 5 h post administration. However based on the blood glucose response curve it is very likely that the hypoglycemic activity of the B insulin conjugate could extend beyond the 5 h recording phase adopted in the present study. This is most likely due to the delayed uptake of the B insulin conjugate J. D. Bagnato et al. 2004 69 8987 96 but an extended half life of the B insulin conjugate when compared to native insulin 10 min F. Tietze et al. 1953 75 1758 1760 similar to transferrin Tf bound conjugates J. Alsenz et al. 2000 17 825 32 cannot be ruled out.

The most remarkable and unexpected finding of the present study was the hypoglycemic response to the oral administration of the B insulin conjugate and its dependence on the Buptake mechanism. However it must be noted that the Buptake capacity in humans is limited to approximately 1 2 g per dosage and as such the amount of peptide that can be introduced through the Bpathway is limited J. A. Robertson et al. 1985 88 908 912 . This limitation could be counteracted by multiple dosing ileal IF receptors recycle every 30 minutes S. Kanazawa et al. 1983 1 707 8 or by conjugating multiple insulin molecules to B. Indeed the conjugation of multiple insulin molecules is a likely therapeutic preference given the versatility of this system that will allow for extensive modifications with conjugation at different insulin residues at different Bsites both designed to minimize disturbance of uptake and receptor recognition and through linkers of various lengths with the ultimate aim of optimizing the uptake versus activity relationship between Band insulin for greatest activity and in vivo residency.

In conclusion the improved ease associated with the non invasive delivery of insulin is likely to yield stricter control of blood glucose levels and better clinical outcomes in individuals with DM. Here we present an oral insulin delivery mechanism that has proven in vivo efficacy is highly adaptive from a chemistry viewpoint and presents potential future clinical relevance as part of a non invasive basal bolus insulin therapy.

Reagents and chemicals. All reactions were done under dinitrogen atmosphere unless otherwise stated. Vitamin B Cyanocobalamin bovine insulin trifluoroacetic acid dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO carbonyldiimidazole CDI 4 2 Hydroxyethyl piperazine 1 ethanesulfonic acid HEPES sodium carbonate ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid EDTA triethyl acetic acid TEA dimethyl maleic anhydride DMMA CHELEX and sinapinic acid were purchased from Sigma Aldrich. Intrinsic Factor IF was purchased from MD Biomedicals. HEPES buffer was washed in CHELEX resin 15 g per liter of buffer to remove any divalent metal ions that may promote insulin aggregation. Diethyl Ether was purchased from Sigma Aldrich and dried in a standard still. DMSO was dried over 4 molecular sieves 200 400 mesh Sigma . Methanol and acetonitrile were chromatography grade and purchased from Sigma Aldrich. Hydrochloric acid 12 M and sodium chloride were purchased from Fisher Scientific. Dithiothreitol DTT was purchased from EMD Chemicals. Dialysis tubing was purchased from Pierce with 3 500 and 7 000 MWCO. SDS PAGE gels were prepared by standard literature procedures J. Sambrook and D. Russell D in Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor 2001 Vol. 3 pp. A8 pt43. Water was distilled and deionised to 18.6 M using a Barnstead Diamond Reverse Osmosis machined coupled to a Barnstead Nano Diamond ultrapurification machine. MALDI TOF mass spectrometry was performed on Applied Biosystems Voyager DE with a laser intensity of 3922 Hz. The MALDI matrix was 10 mg sinapinic acid dissolved in a 40 60 methanol acetonitrile mixture with 0.001 TFA with and without 10 mM DTT. Insulin was used as a control 5733 m z to account for variance common with MALDI TOF mass spectrometry W. C. Chang et al. 2007 582 1 9 . An Agilent 1100 HPLC with manual injection and automated fraction collector was fitted with a Zorbax Canalytical column for purification. Electrospray mass spectrometry was in HEPES buffer performed on a Schimadzu LCMS 2010 A system at a cone voltage of 70 kV as 50 L samples. All preparatory centrifugation was done at 4000 rpm at 4 C. for 10 min using a Sorvall Centrifuge with swinging rotor.

DMMA protection of insulin. The protection of insulin has previously been reported N. J. Kavimandan et al. 2006 17 1376 84 . This procedure slightly modified is as follows. Insulin 25 mg 4.3 mol was dissolved in 5 mL of 50 mM HEPES buffer with 25 mM EDTA. The pH was adjusted to be within the range of 6.8 6.9 with 1 M sodium carbonate. A three fold molar excess of dimethylmaleic anhydride DMMA 5 mg 43 mol was dissolved in 1 mL of DMSO. One third of the DMMA was added to the insulin and the pH was adjusted back to 6.8 6.9 with 1 M HCl. The insulin was slowly rotated at 4 C. for 30 minutes. The pH was checked at the end of the 30 minutes and adjusted as before. The remaining two thirds of the DMMA solution were then added in the same fashion. The pH was again checked to be between 6.8 6.9 and the solution allowed to rotate at 4 C. over night. The protected insulin was dialyzed with gentle stirring at 4 C. against 50 mM HEPES buffer with 25 mM EDTA. One liter of buffer was changed every three five hours for a total of four liters of buffer.

Activation of Band reaction with protected insulin. A two fold molar excess of B 12 mg 8.6 mol relative to insulin 4.3 M was dissolved in 2 mL of DMSO. A five fold molar excess compared to Bof CDI 3.5 mg ml 21.5 mol in DMSO was added to the Bsolution. The reaction was rotated at 35 C. for 2 hr. The solution was then removed and triturated with 10 mL of dry ether and centrifuged. The solution was decanted and the solid washed with dry ether. The DMMA protected insulin solution obtained was then adjusted to a pH of 9.7 with 1 M sodium carbonate. The activated Bwas added to the protected insulin and rotated at 4 C. over night. The reaction was then dialyzed against 1 L volumes of HEPES buffer pH 7.4 until the external buffer became clear. At this point the internal solution remained pink. Bringing the pH back down to 7.4 is important here to avoid insulin aggregation and or deamination which can occur at higher alkaline pH over prolonged periods. To test for the presence of residual Beach liter of dialysis buffer was reduced to 1 mL in vacuo and electronic absorption spectroscopy and electrospray mass spectrometry was performed. Once the presence of Bwas no longer observed typically after 4 1 L changes the pink solution remaining inside the dialysis tubing was then used for subsequent experiments. UV vis 360.0 nm 411.9 nm 545.0 nm all concentrations calculated using 27 291 MALDI TOF MS m z M for free insulin at 5734 Bconjugated to insulin at 7091.9 CD T55 C. Reactions run with 25 mg 4.4 mmol bovine insulin typically yielded 25 M 5 mL solutions of B insulin. Yield 3 based on Insulin . Band insulin used can be recovered and utilized in subsequent conjugations.

Ion exchange separation of insulin and B insulin. Ion exchange chromatography to remove and reclaim residual unreacted insulin was performed on a GE Akta Prime Plus system. A HiTrap 5 mL DEAE FF was loaded with 2.5 mL of dialyzed reaction. Unreacted insulin eluted with 100 water with a red fraction of 1 eluting with 50 0.5 M NaCl. SDS PAGE electrophoresis confirmed the presence of insulin and the fraction was characterized via MALDI TOF mass spectrometry and ultracentrifugation to verify a single species corresponding to B insulin.

Gel electrophoresis. SDS PAGE was performed using a Bio Rad Mini Cell at 45 mA. 20 l of sample were mixed with 20 l of 1 SDS with 0.2 M mercaptoethanol boiled for three minutes and run on 12.5 resolving acrylamide gel with 4 stacking gel. Protein was visualized by Coomassie blue staining.

MALDI TOF mass spectrometry studies in the presence of DTT. DTT 10 mM was reacted with an equivalent volume of B insulin for 20 minutes and 1 L of this combination was prepared in the aforementioned MALDI procedure. MALDI TOF MS m z M insulin A strand at 2717.00 B strand at 4040.67 B strand Bat 5400.00 insulin at 5755.92 and insulin Bat 7181.30.

Ultracentrifugation studies. Ultracentrifugation was carried out on a Beckman Coulter Optima TLX 120 000 rpm ultracentrifuge. Velocity studies were conducted at 40 000 rpm at 10 C. at 270 nm. A two chamber cell with quartz lenses was loaded with 450 L of HEPES buffer pH 9.7 and 400 L of purified B insulin in 50 mM HEPES at pH 9.7. Molecular weight was calculated from the sedimentation coefficient using Ultrascan version 8.0 Software for MS Windows.

Intrinsic Factor binding studies. Intrinsic Factor 10 mg 0.23 g was dissolved in 1 mL dHO. A 50 L aliquot of B insulin was added to 950 L of 50 mM HEPES buffer. Baseline was run against HEPES buffer and the first scan of B insulin was taken without Intrinsic Factor. A 5 L aliquot of Intrinsic Factor was added to the B insulin mixed and a second scan was taken. This procedure was repeated for five additions of Intrinsic Factor.

Electron absorption spectra. Samples were run on a Varian Cary 50 Bio spectrometer in a 1 mL quartz cuvette Sigma between 200 nm and 800 nm. Temperature control was maintained by a Peltier junction at 37 C. 0.1 C.

Melting circular dichroism CD studies. Circular dichroism CD was performed on an Aviv model 202 spectrometer set at 222 nm with a 1 mL Quartz cuvette. All samples were prepared in 50 mM HEPES buffer pH 9.7 with 25 mM carbonate and 10 mM EDTA and heated from 25 to 80 C. in 1 increments then cooled from 80 to 25 C. in the same increment. Sample concentrations ranged from 1.00 M to 1.35 M. Heating over 85 C. resulted in irreversible unfolding of both insulin and the B insulin conjugate. All results were duplicated per batch and run for every batch prior to in vivo testing.

Animals. Male Sprague Dawley rats 323 36 SD n 12 were purchased pre catheterised Jugular vein from Charles River Laboratories Wilmington Mass. acclimatised for three days and then rendered insulin deficient via infusion of streptozotocin STZ 60 mg kg body weight dissolved in citrate buffer and used within 15 min of preparation. Blood glucose concentration was assessed over four days to ensure fasting levels of greater than 14 mmol L 250 mg dl were reached. Animals were housed individually and maintained on a 12 hr light dark 0600 1800 h cycle with free access to food standard laboratory chow Scotts Distributing Inc and water. Maintenance of animals and experimental protocols were conducted in accordance with federal regulations and approved by the Syracuse University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Protocol Number SU 09 102 

Animal experimental design. On the day of experimentation animals were fasted for 4 hours prior to the sampling of blood 50 l and the B insulin compound 100 nm ml was subsequently administered via oral gavage 1 ml . Blood was then sampled at 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 and 300 min after the administration of the conjugate for the calculation of area under the blood glucose curve YSI 2300 STAT PLUS YSI Incorporated Yellow Springs Ohio . Two control groups were used in this set of experiments the first received a molar equivalent concentration 100 nm of free insulin 1 ml while the second control group received the same quantity of the B insulin conjugate as the experimental group however the conjugate was dissolved in 10 fold excess B.

Computational characterization of insulin. Energy minimization of the component systems was performed using the MM2 molecular mechanics force field N. L. Allinger 1977 99 8127 8134 . Graphics were generated using VMD W. Humphrey et al. 1996 14 27 28 and POVRay Persistence of Vision Raytracer v.3.6.1 on WorldWide Web at povray.org on a 1.5 GHz processor Powerbook G4 Apple Inc. .

In this embodiment Vitamin Band peptide are either directly conjugated or conjugated with a spacer. The spacer groups between the peptide and Bare short bifunctional alkyl chains of varying lengths typically 3 40 atoms that facilitate both the necessary conjugation of Band peptide and also provide varying degrees of separation between the two. This is to minimize any steric effects the Bmay have on peptide receptor interactions.

Conjugation takes place on Bat three major sites 1 the cobalamin s axial site at the cobalt atom 2 direct conjugation of the peptide to the peripheral corrin ring propionamide units there are three but the position avoids Intrinsic Factor uptake interference and 3 through the 5 hydroxy group of the ribose unit of the tail of B. Previous research suggests that modification of these sites does not affect Intrinsic Factor and TCII affinity vital for successful uptake Pathare P. M. et al. 1996 7 217 32 .

PYY conjugation Tertiary structure is believed to play a key role in PYY activity with loss of helicity reducing potency. The active site has been shown to be from residues 22 36 and a systematic structure function study conducted by Balasubramanam et al. 2000 43 3420 7 has demonstrated that potent activity could still be achieved with modifications to certain residues even in the active terminal region. Modification at Trp27 or Tyr36 did interfere with receptor affinity IC

The effects of PYY or GLP conjugation on Benzyme binding and kinetics is explored by spectroscopic means as demonstrated above but also by electron microscopy. By attaching holo transcobalamin II prebound to conjugate as demonstrated by spectroscopic studies to latex minibeads or gold surfaces and incubating in the presence of liver cell suspensions visualization of binding to cells such as the endothelial cells Kupffer cells or hepatocytes can be visualized by scanning electron microscopy. Conducting the experiment at different temperatures e.g. 4 C. versus 37 C. allows such dependence to be elucidated. Internalization of the peptide probe system predicted to occur at 37 C. is visualized by transmission electron microscopy. Successful binding and uptake can then be followed. In addition binding specificity can be demonstrated by inhibition experiments using pre incubation with equal and excess native TCII B.

Using 1I labeled PYY and GLP 1 prepared by commercially obtaining tri butyl tin derivatives and subsequently reacting with Na I to displace the tributyltin with iodine receptor binding studies of the free peptide versus B peptide conjugates are performed against all six PYY receptor subtypes and both known GLP 1 receptors subtypes. Loss of affinity preference for certain receptor subtype is then monitored. Such PYY or GLP studies have been conducted by groups such as that of Huang et al. using pancreatic acini cells Huang S. C. and M. F. Tsai 1994 15 405 10 .

GLP 1 conjugation. The histidine moiety at the N terminus of plays a central role in GLP 1 binding to GLP 1 receptors Kim S. et al. 2005 26 3597 3606 . Loss or modification of this histidine not only greatly diminishes activity but also antagonizes the activity of GLP 1. In contrast modification of the lysine residue K26 does not interfere greatly with binding and so is a suitable site for irreversible conjugation again offering the opportunity to avail of enterohepatic recirculation. The lysine residue K34 has been debated in the literature regarding whether modification diminishes activity Kim S. et al. 2005 26 3597 3606 . Coupling at this position occurs in tandem with K26 where the N terminal histidine has been suitably protected producing a conjugate containing two Bmolecules per peptide. Any activity of this peptide will provide evidence on the importance of K34 and on the benefits or unsuitability of conjugation of multiple B S for activity.

An alternative approach involving reversible coupling of the peptides to Bconjugates or use of polyethylene glycol spacers is also taken. With the reversible conjugation the Bstill facilitates the peptide s enteric transport and uptake but the peptide is released once the conjugate arrives in the brain. Some peptide are also released in the blood however some of this blood released peptide also transport across the blood brain barrier as is the case with endogenously produced peptide. This still produces an oral delivery route for each peptide but rules out extended presence of active peptide through Bdependent enterohepatic circulation. A route to increase peptide mean residence time involves the use of long chain polyethylene glycol PEG units 750 10000 Da . Conjugates of the type B PEG peptide is produced. It is has been extensively reported in the literature that PEG conjugates exhibit increased plasma half lives Shechter Y. et al. 2005 579 2439 44 improved resistance to proteolysis reduced immunogenicity and antigenicity compared to parental compounds including proteins Poindexter G. S. et al. 2002 12 379 82 van Spriel A. B. et al. 2000 12 666 70 Werle M. and A. Bemkop Schneurch 2006 30 351 67 . By coupling the conjugates through bifunctional PEG units with a reversible bond e.g. a disulfide bond sensitive to reducing agents at the peptide PEG junction but a more stable bond e.g. amide at the B PEG junction tailored release is achieved. This means longer lived peptide in vivo is transported orally.

Combined the approaches disclosed herein involve short or long chain spacers reversibly or irreversibly coupling offer an extensive ability to diversify and optimize the system to produce the desired uptake activity and in vivo residency.

This is achieved in an analogous approach to that demonstrated in Example 1. The complexes are characterized where appropriate by X ray crystal structure determination 10 and 20 NMR spectroscopy COSY NOSY circular dichroism CD and CD melting experiments electronic absorption spectroscopy MALDI TOF and Electrospray mass spectrometry Infra red spectroscopy SDS PAGE and amino acid analysis. These experiments confirm that the conjugates are pure coupled correctly allow us to calculate concentrations and ensure the peptides have remained folded through the chemical coupling procedure. They also allow us to observe and define even slight structural changes in the peptides compared to unconjugated peptide. Combined with activity studies this allows us to correlate structure and function. Purification is achieved by a number of routes depending on each peptide. Dialysis using size to facilitate facile purification reverse phase HPLC or column chromatography silica amberlite DOWEX and sephadex G 25 resins or anion exchange chromatography is used. The stability of the bioconjugates is studied at various pH values to reflect the condition in stomach intestine serum and cell. The light and thermal sensitivity of the bioconjugates is established to ensure correct handling and storage conditions. Spectrophotometric Bbinding assays with Intrinsic Factor and TCII confirm in vitro that the conjugates recognize Buptake enzymes. Conjugates that give positive binding assays for both Band peptide components in a particular conjugate are then used for in vivo trials. The stability of the bioconjugates with respect to concentrations of blood serum reducing agents such as cysteine and glutathione is studied for those B PEG peptide systems coupled through a reversible disulfide bond. These studies offer information on the efficacy of the trigger and combined with the Band peptide receptor binding assays is used to screen for conjugates suitable for in vivo testing.

Conjugation both reversible and irreversible is achieved using standard organic chemistry conjugate chemistry techniques as appropriate.

The purpose here is to demonstrate biological activity of the conjugates characterized in the experiments described above. Experiments were conducted using male Sprague Dawley SD rats obtained from Charles River Laboratories CRL approximately 12 weeks in age . SD rats were used due to the unique bimodal distribution that results in response to a diet relatively high in fat and energy HE Levin R E. et al. 1997 273 R725 30 . Indeed approximately 50 of SD rats developed diet induced obesity DIOSD when placed on a HE diet and these animals are characterized by rapid weight gain 32.8 g per week and increased food consumption 25 over two weeks full metabolic profile is characterized in Levin R E. et al. 1997 273 R725 30 . The remaining 50 of the animals diet resistant DRSD do not demonstrate this increased weight gain and present with similar food consumption quantities as control animals. These animal models have been chosen on the basis that they present with disparate eating behaviors and that the DIOSD rats present with similar features to those seen in humans as opposed to an autosomal recessive gene defect model such as the Zucker rat Levin R E. et al. 1997 273 R725 30 .

The first objective assesses uptake kinetics of each conjugate as B peptide suspended in physiological buffer to characterize the efficiency of the biological uptake system Study 1 . The second series of studies Studies 2 3 assesses alterations in acute first five hours eating behavior specifically total water and food intake and the effect of combined therapy assessing the additive effect of GLP 1 and PYY .

Twelve outbred SD rats rats that have not been phenotypically characterized as DRSD or DIOSD are obtained from GRL and acclimatized to their surroundings for a one week period. The jugular vein in each rat is catheterized using the surgical services of GRL prior to shipping. Each animal is then be randomly assigned to undertake four out of the following eight trials same time of day 0700 h 12 hr light dark cycle 0600 1800 h representing the light cycle after a twelve hour fast and separated by at least three days 1 1 nmol kg of peptide as B peptide 2 0.5 nmol kg of peptide as B peptide 3 0.1 nmol kg of peptide as B peptide 4 0.05 nmol kg of peptide as B peptide 5 0.01 nmol kg of peptide as B peptide 6 0.05 nmol kg of peptide as B peptide 7 1 nmol kg of free peptide and 1 nmol kg of free B 8 the physiological buffer carrier solution alone. The peptide is administered into the stomach by oral gavage wherein the quantity of solution is identical across trials. Following this design each trial contains data from six animals n 6 per trial . Trial 7 and trial 8 are treated as control trials.

Blood is sampled 200 l pre gavage and at 60 120 150 180 240 and 300 min thereafter the number of time points are chosen to ensure less than 1.5 ml of blood is sampled per testing trial via the catheter and assayed for peptide concentration RIA Phoenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. . For peptide analysis blood is treated and assayed in accordance with the peptide specific radioimmunoassay RIA kit instructions Phoenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. . The mean area under the curve AUG is calculated for each trial.

Results Each peptide appears in the blood by 120 min post administration and demonstrates peak plasma concentration G at 240 min. By 300 min post administration the peptide concentration has returned to baseline levels. The AUG and Care the lowest during control trial 7 and trial 8 trials derived from endogenous secretion . A graphical evaluation of the plasma Cand AUG y axes against dose x axis concentrations in trials 1 6 curve demonstrates a non linear increase up to a dose of 0.1 nmol kg of peptide trial 3 upon which further increases in concentration do not yield greater Cand AUG values plateau .

An alternate approach is to administer I or H labeled peptides and assess radioactivity in the plasma. The advantage of this approach is the increased sensitivity of the measurement and as such smaller samples 75 l are required allowing the number of sampling points to be increased. A disadvantage of this approach being that some radioactivity is expected to appear in all trials where the peptide is administered since peptides may undergo proteolysis within the GIT and as a result radioactive peptide fragments may be absorbed. However the time course of appearance varies greatly wherein the intact radioactive peptide conjugate appears later 2 5 hours after oral gavage while the radioactive peptide fragments appear earlier within 2 hours . Upon subtracting the time course per time interval of radioactivity appearing in the plasma of control animals free peptide administration from the radioactivity appearing in the plasma of experimental animals the uptake of conjugated peptides is established.

Study 1 demonstrates changes in the peptide concentration as Cand AUG following the oral administration of the peptide conjugate versus control . It is for this reason that we have chosen to assess the concentration of these peptides using the specific peptide RIA s as the primary approach. Upon completion of testing the first batch of animals n 3 rats completing four trials each the peptide concentrations is assessed.

A secondary purpose during this study is to determine whether the eating responses are different between the two animal models. The peptide concentration as B peptide adopted during this study is dependent on results of Study 1 wherein the peptide demonstrating the greatest Cand AUC at the lowest dose is utilized based on graphical evaluation see statistical section .

Twelve DIOSD and twelve DRSD rats are acclimatized to the animal care facility for a one week period housed individually . On day eight animals have their bedding removed and are fasted overnight 12 hours . Fecal matter is sporadically removed during this time period to prevent minimize coprophagia and at the onset of testing. Thereafter the peptide conjugated as B peptide quantity dependent on results from Study 1 is administered directly into the stomach by oral gavage. Thirty minutes later the pre weighed test food precision pellets TestDiet is placed into the center of the cage and the food pot secured to the base. A water bottle containing a known quantity of water is then suspended from the cage as usual. Food and water intake is then assessed by subtracting the post measure from the pre measure as weight g and volume ml for food and water respectively . Care is taken to include partially eaten pellets in the post measure. After three days an identical quantity of saline compared to B peptide solution is administered directly into the stomach by oral gavage and food and water intake measured the treatment order is counter balanced. These experiments are conducted in triplicate each animal undergoing three sets of treatments and the mean scores recorded.

Results The conjugated peptide causes a decrease in food consumption. In addition the DIOSD demonstrate a similar reduction in food intake then what is observed in the DRSD rats.

Alternative approach I or H labeled peptides are administered during the oral gavage. At a time point corresponding to 10 min post C as assessed in Study 1 the animal is euthanized and tissues blood GIT stomach to large intestine liver adipose muscle Gastrocnemius and brain sampled. The tissues are assessed for radioactivity based on standard laboratory procedure. The blood samples are assayed for peptide concentration.

The purpose of this alternative approach is to unequivocally demonstrate that the peptide had no biological effect on food consumption. This is demonstrated when no decrease in food consumption occurs even though the peptide is present measured by RIA and radioactivity .

The study design is identical to that in Study 2 with the exception of using a combination of the peptides to assess for additive effects. The concentration delivered is one half of the concentration of each peptide delivered in Study 2. One half is used since the rate limiting step to plasma appearance is the vitamin Buptake path as such an equivalent concentration of Bis administered in Study 2 and Study 3 . The control treatment is the peptide conjugate that demonstrates the greatest reduction in food intake during Study 2.

Results There is an additive effect of these peptides and their combination results in a greater reduction in food intake than the control group.

Statistical Analysis In study 1 significant differences in plasma peptide concentration within trials are assessed using a one way ANOVA trial 8 subtracted endogenous control group e.g. Mean plasma concentration in trial 1 at 60 min subtract mean plasma concentration in trial 8 at 60 min with repeated measures time . Where a significant result is demonstrated a Tukey post Hoc analysis is conducted to identify time points. AUC and Care calculated for each trial and the differences between trials 1 7 trial 8 subtracted endogenous control group e.g. AUC for trial 2 subtract the AUC for trial 8 assessed using a one way ANOVA with repeated measures trial . Where a significant result is demonstrated a Tukey post Hoc analysis is conducted to identify trials which represents peptide dose . The dose response curve trial 1 6 is fitted to a four parameter logistic function using nonlinear regression routines contained within Prism vA.01 GraphPad software . A plateau is defined as having occurred when no significant difference between trial 1 the highest dose and another trial or multiple trials exists based on one way ANOVA with Tukey post Hoc . An independent t test with a Bonferroni correction is used to assess for differences between peptide appearance in the plasma dependent variable AUC for trials 1 6 trial 8 subtracted .

In Study 2 and 3 a two way ANOVA group x condition treatment with repeated measures condition is used to assess for interactions main effect for condition dependent variable being food intake . A Tukey post hoc is then used to assess the interaction. In all cases homogeneity of variance is tested and where unequal data is analyzed by equivalent non parametric methods e.g. Wilcoxon . Normality of distribution is assessed Shapiro Wilk normality test and additional statistical analysis completed where appropriate. Significance is accepted when P 0.05.

Longer term treatment and endogenous peptide release in suitable rodent models. Specifically food and water intake body weight and carcass composition at the termination of the study are assessed and compared to control animals following a 56 day supplementation period with the peptide conjugates. The peptide conjugate is administered via drinking water and animals allowed to eat ad libitum. This study also serves to identify changes in endogenous appetite suppression that may have resulted from the long term supplementation by removing the peptide conjugate from the water by day 56 and monitoring food intake for the subsequent two weeks to assess whether animals return to previous food intake quantities. Additionally changes in glycemic control A glycohemoglobin glucose insulin fasting and postprandial as well as fasting blood lipids and lipoprotein concentrations are assessed during longer term studies.

Use of coupling agents such as CDI or CDT for in this application coupling the Bto insulin is now the standard in chemistry and review books exist on this topic such as for example Hermanson G. Bioconjugate Techniques AP Press.

Bovine insulin 0.010 g 1.74 10mol was protected with a three fold molar excess of dimethylmaleic anhydride by the previously established procedure. The protected insulin solution was then collected by precipitation in 35 mL chilled isopropyl alcohol. The resulting solid was washed in chilled isopropyl alcohol then ether. The dried sample was then dissolved in 4 mL DMSO with 1 triethylamine. Cyanocobalamin 0.005 g 3.69 10mol was activated with 1.2 molar equivalents of CDT in 2 mL dry DMSO at room temperature for 30 minutes. The insulin solution was then added to the activated cyanocobalamin and allowed to rotate gently over night at room temperature. The resulting reaction was dialyzed against 5 L of deionized water and then purified by anion exchange chromatography.

Cyanocobalamin 0.005 g 3.69 10mol was dissolved in 2 mL dry DMSO and activated with CDT at room temperature for 30 minutes. This was then added to O O Bis 2 aminoethyl polyethylene glycol 2 000 0.0147 g 7.37 10mol and the B PEG product was purified by high pressure liquid chromatography using 5 mM Phosphate buffer pH 7 and acetonitrile. The gradient went from 20 acetonitrile to 50 acetonitrile over 20 minutes. B PEG had a Tat 11 minutes and was then verified by MALDI MS. B PEG was reacted with 50 mM sodium iodoacetate with the presence of a ten fold molar excess of sodium iodoacetate. The reaction was run in 2 mL 500 mM phosphate buffer containing 0.15 M NaCl and 5 mM EDTA pH 8.3. This was stirred under nitrogen atmosphere at room temperature overnight. The B PEG acetate product was then dried in vacuo and activated with CDT in 2 mL dry DMSO for 30 minutes at room temperature.

Bovine insulin 0.010 g 1.74 10mol was protected with a three fold molar excess of dimethylmaleic anhydride by the previously established procedure. The protected insulin solution was then collected by precipitation in 35 mL chilled isopropyl alcohol. The resulting solid was washed in chilled isopropyl alcohol then ether. The dried sample was then dissolved in 4 mL DMSO with 1 triethylamine. The insulin solution was then added to the activated B PEG acetate and allowed to rotate gently over night at room temperature. The resulting reaction was dialyzed against 5 L of deionized water and then purified by anion exchange chromatography.

Ditertbutyl dicarbonate 0.001 g 5.0 10mol was stirred with N hydroxysuccinimide 0.0012 g 1.0 10mol in 500 L dry DMSO with 200 L TEA for one hour at room temperature. This was then added drop wise to a rapidly stirring solution of bovine insulin 0.010 g 1.74 10mol via syringe over two hours then stirred at room temperature for an additional hour. The solution was precipitated in 35 mL chilled isopropyl alcohol and collected via centrifugation. The resulting solid was washed in chilled isopropyl alcohol then ether. The dried sample was then dissolved in 4 mL DMSO with 1 triethylamine. Cyanocobalamin 0.005g 3.69 10mol was activated with 1.2 molar equivalents of CDT in 2 mL dry DMSO at room temperature for 30 minutes. The insulin solution was then added to the activated cyanocobalamin and allowed to rotate gently over night at room temperature. The resulting reaction was dialyzed against 5 L of deionized water and then purified by anion exchange chromatography.

Ditertbutyl dicarbonate 0.001 g 5.0 10mol was stirred with N hydroxysuccinimide 0.0012 g 1.0 10mol in 500 L dry DMSO with 200 L TEA for one hour at room temperature. This was then added drop wise to a rapidly stirring solution of bovine insulin 0.010 g 1.74 10mol via syringe over two hours then stirred at room temperature for an additional hour. The solution was precipitated in 35 mL chilled isopropyl alcohol and collected via centrifugation. The resulting solid was washed in chilled isopropyl alcohol then ether. The dried sample was then dissolved in 4 mL DMSO with 0.5 triethylamine.

To attach PEG to the terminal amine of the B strand O O Bis 2 aminoethyl polyethylene glycol 2 000 was reacted with sodium iodoacetate in 2 mL 500 mM phosphate buffer containing 0.15 M NaCl and 5 mM EDTA pH 8.3. This was stirred under nitrogen atmosphere at room temperature overnight. The PEG acetate product was then dried in vacuo. It was rediscover in 2 mL dry DMSO and activated with CDT for 30 minutes at room temperature. The activated PEG was then added to the protected insulin and rotated at room temperature overnight. The reaction was then dialyzed with a MWCO of 3 500 against 5 L deionized water. The addition of 1 TFA served to deportment the Lees 29 amine on the B chain of insulin. After dialyzing the depredated system against 50 mM HEPES buffer pH 6.9 the internal pH was adjusted to 6.9 and the previously established DMMA protection was carried out to protect the terminal amine located on the A strand of insulin.

Cyanocobalamin 0.005 g 3.69 10mol was activated with 1.2 molar equivalents of CDT in 2 mL dry DMSO at room temperature for 30 minutes. The insulin PEG solution was then added to the activated cyanocobalamin and allowed to rotate gently over night at room temperature. The resulting reaction was dialyzed with a MWCO of 7 000 against 5 L of deionized water and then purified by anion exchange chromatography.

While the present invention has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity and understanding one skilled in the art will appreciate that various changes in form and detail can be made without departing from the true scope of the invention. All figures tables appendices patents patent applications and publications referred to above are hereby incorporated by reference.

