---

title: Folding headrest
abstract: A headrest assembly may include a first frame member operatively connected to a seat, a second frame member that is selectively movable with respect to the first frame member, and a locking mechanism for use in adjusting the first locking member between a first locked condition that prevents the second frame member from moving relative to the first frame member and a second adjustable condition that permits the second frame member to move relative to the first frame member.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07758126&OS=07758126&RS=07758126
owner: Honda Motor Co., Ltd.
number: 07758126
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20080402
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Ser. No. 61 020 184 entitled FOLDING HEADREST filed Jan. 10 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention pertains generally to the art of methods and apparatuses regarding vehicle occupant head support and more specifically to methods and apparatuses regarding vehicle headrest assemblies.

It is well known in the art of automotive vehicles to provide seat assemblies for supporting occupants in a seated position within the vehicle. Generally each seat assembly includes a seat cushion and a seat back. The seat back supports the back of an occupant who is seated on the seat cushion. It is also known in the art to provide seatbacks that can be folded or position adjusted in some manner from the use position where the seatback is roughly perpendicular to the seat cushion to a relatively downward and or storage position.

Often known seat assemblies include a headrest assembly that is typically mounted on the seat back for supporting the head of the occupant. Usually the headrest assembly extends above the top of the seat back and is operable to receive an occupant s head both during normal driving conditions especially during acceleration as well as during unusual and extreme conditions such as during a collision. It is known to provide headrest assemblies that can be position adjusted in order to adapt to occupants of various heights. Some headrest assemblies can be adjusted both in the up and down direction and in the fore and aft direction. A growing number of countries are requiring vehicle manufacturers to produce seats with increased seat and back heights for increased protection for an occupant during a collision.

However increasing the height of seatbacks in rear seat assemblies results in reduced or otherwise obstructed rearward visibility for front seat occupants especially for the driver. In addition the headrest assembly may have to be removed before the seat back can be position adjusted. Therefore it is desirable to have a headrest assembly that can be adjustable between an upright use position and a downward and or out of the way position to improve rearward visibility for the driver when the seats are not in use. It is also desirable to have a headrest assembly that can be position adjusted to reduce the amount of space required when a seat back is folded down.

Although many known methods work well for their intended purpose several disadvantages exist. One known disadvantage is the requirement for a complicated lock mechanism for maintaining the headrest in the upright position. Another known disadvantage is the requirement for an increase in thickness of the folding headrest due to the lock mechanism.

According to one embodiment of the invention a headrest assembly may comprise A a first frame member operatively connectable to an associated seat wherein the first frame member comprises a slot having a first portion with a first width and a second portion with a second width that is substantially larger than the first width B a second frame member that is selectively movable with respect to the first frame member and C a locking mechanism comprising 1 a first locking member having a first portion with a first width and a second portion with a second width that is substantially larger than the first width 2 wherein the first width of the first portion of the first locking member is less than or equal to the first width of the first portion of the slot and the second width of the second portion of the first locking member is greater than the first width of the first portion of the slot and 3 a second locking member operatively attached to the first locking member for use in adjusting the first locking member between a first locked condition where the second portion of the first locking member is received within the second portion of the slot that prevents the second frame member from moving relative to the first frame member and a second adjustable condition where the first portion of the first locking member is received within either the first or the second portions of the slot that permits the second frame member to move relative to the first frame member.

According to another embodiment of this invention a method may comprise the steps of A providing a seat B providing a headrest assembly comprising 1 a first frame comprising a slot having a first portion with a first width and a second portion with a second width that is substantially larger than the first width 2 a second frame member that is selectively movable with respect to the first frame member and 3 a locking mechanism comprising a first locking member having a first portion with a first width and a second portion with a second width that is substantially larger than the first width wherein the first width of the first portion of the first locking member is less than or equal to the first width of the first portion of the slot and the second width of the second portion of the first locking member is greater than the first width of the first portion of the slot and a second locking member operatively attached to the first locking member and C placing the headrest assembly into a locked condition that prevents the second frame member from moving relative to the first frame member by positioning the second portion of the first locking member within the second portion of the slot D adjusting the headrest assembly into a adjustable condition that permits the second frame member to move relative to the first frame member by positioning the first portion of the first locking member within the second portion of the slot and E adjusting the headrest assembly by pivoting the first frame member with respect to the second frame member as the first portion of the first locking member moves from the second portion of the slot into the first portion of the slot.

One advantage of this invention according to one embodiment is that the thickness of the folding headrest is reduced due to the improved locking mechanism while the headrest may still be rotated through at least eighty degrees.

Another advantage of this invention is that the number of parts required to assemble the folding headrest is reduced.

Still other benefits and advantages of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art to which it pertains upon a reading and understanding of the following detailed specification.

Referring now to the drawings wherein the showings are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the invention only and not for purposes of limiting the same shows an exterior view of a vehicle equipped with a headrest assembly according to one embodiment of this invention and shows an interior view of the vehicle . As shown in the vehicle as is well known in the art may include a frame a drive train including an engine mounted to the frame and one or more ground engaging wheels which are operatively attached to the frame and are used to provide locomotion for the vehicle . It should be understood that while the vehicles shown are passenger cars this invention will work well with any vehicle including but not limited to cars trucks sport utility vehicles cross over vehicles motorcycles off road vehicles all terrain vehicles and airplanes as well as other passenger carrying devices such as boats. This invention may also work well in non vehicle applications.

With reference now to the vehicle may also include a body defining a passenger compartment . One or more doors may provide entry into the passenger compartment in any manner known in the art. One or more front seats and or one or more rear seats may be positioned within the passenger compartment and mounted to the vehicle . Each seat may comprise a seat cushion and a seatback for use as is well known in the art. In one embodiment a seat adjustment mechanism may be used to position adjust the seat back from a roughly perpendicular use position shown in to a relatively downward and or folded condition shown in . It should be noted however that the headrest assembly of this invention will work well even when the seatback cannot be position adjusted. Any number of headrest assemblies may be used on one or more seats in accordance with this invention. In one embodiment the headrest assembly may extend from a top portion of the seatback . However it is to be understood that in other embodiments the headrest assembly may extend from any other portion of the seat or any non seat surface selected with the sound judgment of a person of ordinary skill in the art.

With reference now to in one embodiment the headrest assembly may include a first frame member a second frame member and a locking mechanism . In one embodiment the thickness T of the headrest assembly is relatively narrow such as 60 millimeters mm or less. In a more specific embodiment the thickness T of the headrest assembly is substantially less than 60 mm. The first frame member the second frame member and the locking mechanism may be made from metal plastic or any other material chosen with the sound judgment of a person of ordinary skill in the art. The first frame member in the illustrated embodiment may have a general U shape as shown with a pair of upright portions and a substantially horizontal portion . In another embodiment the first frame member has a general L shape with one upright portion operatively connected to the substantially horizontal portion . In still another embodiment the first frame member is substantially one piece. An attaching member may operatively connect to the substantially horizontal portion of the first frame member by rivets screws welding or any other means or method chosen within sound engineering judgment. The attaching member may then operatively connect to the top portion of a seatback by the any attaching means chosen within sound judgment of a person of ordinary skill in the art. In a specific embodiment the attaching member includes two substantially parallel metal posts that are received into the top portion of the seatback . In one embodiment the position of the first frame member can be adjustable with respect to the seatback by the attaching member .

With continuing reference to the first frame member may include a slot in an upright portion . In another embodiment a slot is located in each of the upright portions . The slot may have any shape chosen with the sound judgment of a person of ordinary skill in the art. In one specific embodiment the slot may be substantially arcuate as shown. Each slot may include a first portion having a first width W and a second portion having a second width W. In one embodiment the second width W is substantially larger than the first width W as shown. The first portion may comprise the majority of the length of the slot as shown. In one embodiment the first portion includes substantially the entire slot except for the second portion . The second portion may be located at one end of the slot . In another embodiment the second portion may be located at one end of the slot while a third portion not shown but similar to the second portion may be located at the opposite end of the slot . In still another embodiment the second portion is located between the ends of the slot . For the embodiment shown the second portion is substantially circular in shape having a diameter defining the second width W. It should be noted however that the shape of the second portion can be any chosen with the sound judgment of a person of ordinary skill in the art.

With continuing reference to the second frame member may include two substantially parallel side members and a cross member . In one embodiment the second frame member may be a substantially inverted U shape. In anther embodiment the second frame member is substantially one piece. The side member or in another embodiment each side member may include an opening sized to receive a first locking member as will be described further below. The second frame member may be operatively connected to the first frame member . Any more specific embodiment the second frame member may be selectively movable with respect to the first frame member . In yet a more specific embodiment the second frame member may be pivotally connected to the first frame member at a pivot location by rivets bolts screws or by any other means chosen with the sound judgment of a person of ordinary skill in the art.

Still referring to the locking mechanism may include a first locking member and a second locking member . The first locking member may be position adjusted by the second locking member between a locked condition with respect to the first frame member preventing motion of the headrest assembly from the upright use position into the downward or out of the way position and an unlocked or adjustable condition with respect to the first frame member permitting motion of the headrest assembly from the upright use position into the downward or out of the way position . The first locking member may include a first portion having a first width W and a second portion having a second width W. In one embodiment the second width W is substantially larger than the first width W as shown. For the embodiment shown the second portion is substantially circular in shape having a diameter defining the second width W. It should be noted however that the shape of the second portion can be any chosen with the sound judgment of a person of ordinary skill in the art. Similarly for the embodiment shown the first portion b is substantially circular in shape having a diameter defining the first width W. It should be noted however that the shape of the first portion can be any chosen with the sound judgment of a person of ordinary skill in the art. The first portion of the slot is sized to receive the first portion of the first locking member but not the second portion of the first locking member . For this reason the first width W of the first portion is less than or equal to the first width W of the first portion of the slot and the second width W of the second portion is greater than the first width W of the first portion . The second portion of the slot is sized to receive the second portion of the first locking member . For this reason the second with W of the second portion is less than or equal to the second width W of the second portion of the slot . To further accomplish the receiving of the first locking member into the slot as just described it should be noted that the first portion of the first locking member has a thickness along the length of the first locking member equal to or greater than the thickness of the frame member where the slot is defined. The first locking member may be received with the opening s of the side member .

With continuing reference to the second locking member as noted above is used to move the first locking member between the first locked condition and the second adjustable condition. In one embodiment the second locking member is a push button operatively attached by a third locking member to the first locking member . In another embodiment the second locking member is a pull cable operatively attached to the first locking member .

With continuing reference to the headrest assembly may include a biasing member not shown for use in biasing the locking mechanism in the locked condition. The biasing member may be operatively connected to either the first locking member or to the second locking member . In one embodiment the biasing member is a spring that is operatively connected to the first locking member and the first frame member to bias the first locking member into the locked condition. In another embodiment the biasing member is a spring that is operatively connected to the second locking member and the second frame member to bias the first locking member into the locked condition. Exerting a force on the second locking member overcomes the biasing force and allows the first locking member to move from a locked condition to an adjustable condition.

With continuing reference to the first locking member may move from a first locked condition as shown in and into to a second adjustable condition as shown in and . In the first locked condition the second portion of the first locking member is positioned within the second portion of the slot . The first locked condition prevents the second frame member from moving relative to the first frame member . To change from the first locked condition to the second adjustable condition the second locking member is engaged by an operator to cause the first locking member to move along its axis. This causes the first portion to a line with the slot . In this position the first locking member can be moved within the slot . More specifically the first portion of the first locking member may now be positioned within the second portion of the slot as well as within the first portion of the slot . This second adjustable condition permits the second frame member to be moved relative to the first frame member through at least eighty degrees of rotation and into the downward or out of the way position.

Numerous embodiments have been described hereinabove. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the above methods and apparatuses may incorporate changes and modifications without departing from the general scope of this invention. It is intended to include all such modifications and alterations in so far as they come within the scope of the appended claims or the equivalents thereof.

