---

title: Business intelligence data repository and data management system and method
abstract: A business intelligence and data management system is disclosed comprising a database for storing multi-dimensional business data from multiple online educational institutions; a usage tracking engine for recording within a user profile the time and duration of access to disparate system features. A reporting engine provides periodic and custom reports and a benchmarking engine facilitates comparison of internal institution data with aggregate data from multiple institutions, to compare student retention, course completion, student satisfaction, and student performance. The reporting engine provides reports on course retention rates, course evaluations, faculty evaluations, enrollment, student performance, and course run rates. The usage tracking engine, benchmarking engine, and reporting engine facilitate determination of best practices to improve student enrollment, student retention, course completion, student performance, and student satisfaction. A custom query engine facilitates freeform searches of business data and a data mining engine provides access to detailed data supporting the periodic reports.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07937416&OS=07937416&RS=07937416
owner: Ecollege.com
number: 07937416
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080808
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 323 435 entitled BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE DATA REPOSITORY AND DATA MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND METHOD filed on Dec. 30 2005 which is included herein by reference in its entirety.

The invention generally relates to an on line educational business data repository and management system and method.

As the number of online educational institutions courses and enrolled students increases institutions are generating vast amounts of business data. A variety of individual software applications collect and generate data during student registration student enrollment interaction within a course student recruiting and the like. However as the volume of data grows it becomes increasingly difficult to correlate and analyze diverse data sets. Moreover existing applications typically afford users limited reporting capabilities often only within a single application. For example existing systems typically only report upon the number of hits or access attempts to a feature. Furthermore many applications have reduced data retention periods often limiting data reporting and analysis to the present or previous term.

Thus many data correlations remain unconnected and unrevealed due to the lack of a comprehensive business intelligence data management and reporting system. Accordingly a need exists for a system and method to better leverage business data to allow informed decisions by institution administrators improved retention of students improved understanding of the online student lifecycle improved curricula improved financial aid and other student services and improved capabilities for compliance with accreditation requirements.

The invention provides a data management system comprising a database for storage of multi dimensional business data sets from multiple educational institutions a usage tracking engine for tracking features or tools accessed by a user including a time and duration of access to the feature to facilitate comparison of student usage profiles instructor usage profiles and course tool usage profiles a reporting engine configured to provide periodic reports and a benchmarking engine configured to facilitate comparison of internal data associated with a first institution to aggregate data from multiple institutions.

The invention facilitates management of diverse business data generated and collected by on line educational institutions through a multi dimensional data repository. The invention also includes associated reporting and analytic tools. A business intelligence system includes a reporting engine usage tracking engine and benchmarking engine to inform and support business decisions based on data collected from a plurality of applications. The reporting engine provides predefined reports and a custom query engine provides freeform searching capabilities. The invention provides online educational institutions the capability to quickly and efficiently analyze internal data through business intelligence tools and data mining capabilities.

The invention provides flexible data analysis tools for building predictive models and performing multi dimensional analysis to understand program performance student retention learning outcomes and in turn to improve overall institutional performance. For example various embodiments provide tools for identifying key drivers to student course completion including successful student and instructor user tracking profiles. Similarly reports may correlate instructor participation with student participation or course usage profiles for multiple users. Institutions may compare data from a selected program level with comparable data sets within the institution or may compare internal data sets with aggregate external data from multiple other institutions. For example administrators may compare course retention rates by campus instructor course and or term.

The invention provides current or real time as well as historic reporting capabilities facilitating identification of key metric behaviors and events enabling institutions to develop best practices. For example by analyzing the relationship between successful learning outcomes and the time spent in a course by a student and instructor administrators may establish best practices for student and instructor interaction to increase student retention course completion and overall program performance.

The detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention herein makes reference to the accompanying drawings which show the exemplary embodiment by way of illustration and its best mode. While these exemplary embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention other embodiments may be realized and logical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the detailed description herein is presented for purposes of illustration only and not of limitation. For the sake of brevity conventional data networking application development and other functional embodiments of the systems and components of the individual operating components of the systems may not be described in extensive detail herein.

The present invention comprises a business intelligence system including a data repository and various reporting and analytical tools configured to facilitate generation of reports e.g. predefined reports and queries e.g. custom queries . These analytical tools provide institutions the capability to efficiently leverage diverse business data to inform and support business decisions for example to establish best practices for instructors and students. Standard and custom reporting enables institutions to identify trends critical success factors and problem areas across their online programs and to make strategic decisions about program growth faculty effectiveness student retention and or program success. Additionally various embodiments provide institutions access to data e.g. anonymous aggregate data across multiple institutions for benchmark comparison of various metrics or data sets. The aggregate data may thus be used to create industry benchmarking standards and to allow institutions to compare themselves to similar institutions or to the industry as a whole.

As used herein business data and data include internal institution data usage tracking data and aggregate institution data. For example business data includes any data related to student enrollment registration student retention student instructor interaction student or instructor system feature usage student performance student satisfaction course evaluations and or the like. Internal data includes tracking data such as user profiles for students instructors and administrators. As used herein the term institution refers to an educational organization or any subdivision department subgroup or grouping of the same. As used herein the terms user administrator instructor institution participant publisher or campus may be used interchangeably with each other and include any suitable person entity machine hardware software and or business. Varying levels of access may be granted users based on various user role types and user rights. Individual users or user types may receive various rights to data such as for example rights to author edit approve publish delete view copy manage audit report and the like. As used herein the terms system engine tool feature server computer network application or the like may be used interchangeably with each other and each shall mean any software and or hardware suitably configured to perform the respective functions discussed herein. Moreover any reference to singular includes plural embodiments and any reference to more than one component may include a singular embodiment.

Turning now to the drawings is a diagram illustrating an exemplary network configuration for an exemplary business intelligence system within the context of an on line educational platform. Network configuration includes in one embodiment an on line educational system server and a business intelligence system BIS . BIS is in communication with a BIS system administrator computer instructor computer student computer and an institution administrator computer via a network such as the Internet. On line educational system server stores data on BIS for use by administrators at computers and . Instructors at instructor computer and students at student computer may interact with each other and with on line educational system server via network . Examples of on line educational system server and of a system for delivering courses on line are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 470 171 which is hereby incorporated by reference. BIS or system server may further communicate with any number of networked resources.

BIS includes a multi dimensional database usage tracking engine a benchmarking engine and a reporting engine which engines may be embodied as software modules software applications hardware or combinations of the same. In one embodiment engines and are software application hosted by BIS . Alternatively engines and may be remotely hosted and suitably associated with or accessible by BIS . Usage tracking engine is configured to monitor activity of a user at computers or and to generate user tracking data such as the time and duration of access relative to selected system or application features. Tracking data is arranged into usage profiles such as student and instructor profiles or feature specific usage profiles. Archived or historic usage profiles may be aggregated for use by benchmarking engine or reporting engine . Benchmarking engine is configured to aggregate data from multiple institutions according to various metrics for use in comparison of internal data from an institution to anonymous aggregate data from other institutions. Reporting engine is configured to provide periodic and or custom reports based on internal or aggregate institution data according to selected metrics. Various alternative embodiments include a custom query engine configured to facilitate freeform searches of business data accessible through BIS and or a data mining engine providing access to detailed data supporting reports generated by reporting engine .

Exemplary computers and include personal computers laptops notebooks hand held computers set top boxes personal digital assistants cellular telephones transponders and any other device suitable for interaction with server or BIS . In an embodiment BIS may be incorporated into on line educational system server as an application implemented as computer software modules loaded onto system server . Similarly BIS software modules may also be loaded onto a client computer such as computers or . Alternatively computers or may not require additional software to support BIS . For example a BIS application may be remotely hosted as a stand alone BIS and accessed by any of the computers or servers described herein.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as a customization of an existing system an add on product upgraded software a stand alone system a distributed system a method a data processing system a device for data processing and or a computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely software embodiment an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining embodiments of both software and hardware. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code means embodied in the storage medium. Any suitable computer readable storage medium may be utilized including hard disks CD ROM optical storage devices magnetic storage devices and or the like.

The various system components discussed herein may include one or more of the following a host server or other computing systems including a processor for processing digital data a memory coupled to the processor for storing digital data an input digitizer coupled to the processor for inputting digital data an application program stored in the memory and accessible by the processor for directing processing of digital data by the processor a display device coupled to the processor and memory for displaying information derived from digital data processed by the processor and a plurality of databases. Various databases used herein may include course data content data institution data and or like data useful in the operation of the present invention. As those skilled in the art will appreciate user computers and include an operating system e.g. Windows NT 95 98 2000 OS2 UNIX Linux Solaris MacOS etc. as well as various conventional support software and drivers typically associated with computers. User computers may include any suitable personal computer network computer workstation minicomputer mainframe or the like. User computers and may be in a home business or educational institution environment with access to network . In an exemplary embodiment access is through the Internet through a commercially available web browser software package.

As used herein the term network shall include any electronic communications means which incorporates both hardware and software components of such. Communication between users or system components in accordance with the present invention may be accomplished through any suitable communication channels such as for example a telephone network extranet intranet Internet point of interaction device personal digital assistant e.g. Palm Pilot cellular phone kiosk online communications satellite communications off line communications wireless communications transponder communications local area network LAN wide area network WAN networked or linked devices keyboard or any other suitable communication or data input modality.

The invention may be implemented with TCP IP communications protocols or with IPX Appletalk IP 6 NetBIOS OSI or any number of existing or future protocols. If network is in the nature of a public network such as the Internet it may be advantageous to provide firewalls encryption or other suitable security measures. Specific information related to the protocols standards and application software utilized in connection with the Internet is generally known to those skilled in the art and as such need not be detailed herein. See for example DN ISP 1998 J2 C various authors Sybex 1999 DRER MHTML 4.0 1997 and L TCP IP CE 1997 and DGBT HTTP TDG 2002 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The various system components may be independently separately or collectively suitably coupled to network via data links which include for example a connection to an Internet Service Provider ISP over a local loop as is typically used in connection with standard modem communication cable modem Dish networks ISDN Digital Subscriber Line DSL or various wireless communication methods see e.g. GH UDC 1996 which is hereby incorporated by reference. It is noted that network may be implemented as any type of network such as for example an interactive television ITV network. Moreover the system contemplates the use access viewing copying or distribution of any data information goods or services over any network having similar functionality described herein. Additionally as used herein data may include encompassing information such as commands queries files data for storage and the like in digital or any other form. The invention contemplates uses in association with web services utility computing pervasive and individualized computing security and identity solutions autonomic computing mobility and wireless solutions open source biometrics grid computing and or mesh computing.

In one embodiment business data is stored in a central repository comprising a multi dimensional database within or accessible by BIS . Stated otherwise multiple business data sets are stored together as multi dimensional data cubes within the database . For example a single data cube may contain data about particular educational content identification of users who have accessed the content and the time and duration of the access to the content. Such multi dimensional data cubes may thus be used to identify trends and best practices as a function of multiple variables or metrics. Data cubes may be used to associate and store any number of discrete data sets. Additionally discrete data sets may be stored separately within database and associated with other data sets thereafter by various reporting software applications. Multiple data cubes and any number of data sets from multiple cubes may be associated together. For example data cubes containing usage tracking data from multiple institutions may be aggregated and associated by any relevant criteria to generate aggregate benchmarking data for comparison by individual institutions.

Database may include relational hierarchical graphical or object oriented structure and or any other database configurations. Database may be organized for example as data tables or lookup tables. Each data record may be a single file a series of files a linked series of data fields or any other data structure. In one embodiment database contains data representing the business history of an institution. In an alternative embodiment business data may be include data originating from or stored on multiple systems or databases within an institution. Analysis of this historical data supports business decisions at many levels from strategic planning to performance evaluation of a discrete organizational unit instructor content or student. Data in database may be organized both to process real time transactions as in online transaction processing systems OLTP and to support business intelligence analysis.

Business intelligence includes a broad category of applications for gathering storing analyzing and or providing access to data to inform business decisions. Exemplary applications include features for performing queries and reporting online analytical processing OLAP multidimensional online analytical processing MOLAP statistical analysis forecasting and data mining. OLAP technology enables rapid responses to iterative complex analytical queries. MOLAP is OLAP that is indexed directly into a multidimensional database. In general an OLAP application treats data multi dimensionally thereby enabling users to view different aspects or facets of data aggregates such as for example sales by time geography and product model. If the data is stored in a relational database it can be viewed multi dimensionally by successively accessing and processing a table for each dimension or aspect of a data aggregate. In contrast MOLAP processes data stored in a multi dimensional array in which all possible combinations of the data are reflected each in an individual cell that can be accessed directly. For this reason MOLAP is for most uses faster and more user responsive than OLAP or even than relational online analytical processing ROLAP the main alternative to MOLAP. There is also hybrid OLAP HOLAP which combines some features from both ROLAP and MOLAP. Thus various embodiments may include or support one or more of OLAP MOLAP ROLAP and HOLAP processing.

Data Cubes are the main objects in OLAP providing ready access to data in the data repository. A cube is a set of data that is typically constructed from a subset of data in a data repository and is organized and summarized into a multi dimensional structure defined by a set of dimensions and measures. A dimension is an organized hierarchy of categories known as levels that describes data in data repository fact tables. Dimensions typically describe a similar set of measures upon which the user desires to base an analysis. In a cube a measure is a set of values based on a column in the cube s fact table. In addition measures are the central values of a cube or the numeric data of primary interest to users browsing a cube. The measures selected depend on the types of information requested by users for example sales cost and expenditures.

Association of data whether manual or automatic may be accomplished through any data association technique known or practiced in the art. Automatic association techniques may include for example a database search a database merge GREP AGREP SQL using a key field in the tables to speed searches sequential searches through all the tables and files sorting records in the file according to a known order to simplify lookup and or the like. The association step may be accomplished by a database merge function for example using a key field in pre selected databases or data sectors.

More particularly a key field partitions the database according to the high level class of objects defined by the key field. For example certain types of data may be designated as a key field in a plurality of related data tables and the data tables may then be linked on the basis of the type or format of data in the key field. The data corresponding to the key field in each of the linked data tables is preferably the same or of the same type. However data tables having similar though not identical data in the key fields may also be linked by using AGREP for example. Data sets may be stored using any suitable technique including for example storing individual files using an ISO IEC 7816 4 file structure implementing a domain whereby a dedicated file is selected that exposes one or more elementary files containing one or more data sets using data sets stored in individual files using a hierarchical filing system data sets stored as records in a single file including compression SQL accessible hashed via one or more keys numeric alphabetical by first tuple etc. Binary Large Object BLOB stored as ungrouped data elements encoded using ISO IEC 7816 6 data elements stored as ungrouped data elements encoded using ISO IEC Abstract Syntax Notation ASN.1 as in ISO IEC 8824 and 8825 and or other proprietary techniques that may include fractal compression methods image compression methods etc.

As stated herein in various embodiments of the present invention the data may be stored without regard to a common format. However in one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the data set e.g. BLOB may be annotated in a standard manner when included for manipulating the data. The annotation may comprise a short header trailer or other appropriate indicator related to each data set that is configured to convey information useful in managing the various data sets. For example the annotation may be called a condition header header trailer or status herein and may comprise an indication of the status of the data set or may include an identifier correlated to a specific issuer publisher or owner of the data. In one example the first three bytes of each data set BLOB may be configured or configurable to indicate the status of that particular data set e.g. LOADED INITIALIZED READY BLOCKED REMOVABLE or DELETED.

The data set annotation may also be used for other types of status information as well as various other purposes. For example the data set annotation may include security information establishing access levels for various user roles. The access levels may for example be configured to permit only certain users individuals levels of employees institutions or other entities to access data sets or to permit access to specific data sets. Furthermore the security information may restrict or permit only certain actions such as accessing copying modifying and or deleting data sets. In one example the data set annotation indicates that only the data set owner or the user are permitted to delete a data set various identified users may be permitted to access the data set for reading and others are altogether excluded from accessing the data set. However other access restriction parameters may also be used allowing various entities to access a data set with various permission levels as appropriate.

One skilled in the art will also appreciate that for security reasons any databases systems devices servers or other components of the present invention may consist of any combination thereof at a single location or at multiple locations. Additional available security features include firewalls access codes encryption decryption data compression and the like. Firewalls may include any hardware and or software suitably configured to protect system components and or enterprise computing resources from users of other networks. Further a firewall may be configured to limit or restrict access to various systems and components behind the firewall for web clients connecting through a web server. Firewalls may reside in varying configurations including Stateful Inspection Proxy based and Packet Filtering among others. Firewalls may be integrated within a web server or any other system components or may further reside as a separate entity.

The computers discussed herein may include a suitable website or other Internet based graphical user interface which is accessible by users. Any of the communications inputs storage databases or displays discussed herein may be facilitated through a website having web pages. The term web page as it is used herein is not meant to limit the type of documents and applications that might be used to interact with the user. For example a typical website might include in addition to standard HTML documents various forms Java applets JavaScript active server pages ASP common gateway interface scripts CGI extensible markup language XML dynamic HTML cascading style sheets CSS helper applications plug ins and the like.

Computer program instructions may be loaded onto a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the described functions and features. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus include steps for implementing the functions of the present invention.

Any steps or functions described herein may be implemented by either special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions or steps or suitable combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions. Practitioners will appreciate that the steps described herein may include the use of windows web pages web forms popup windows prompts and the like. It should be further appreciated that multiple process steps may be combined into single steps or single steps may be separated into multiple steps for the sake of simplicity.

With reference now to a flow chart of an exemplary BIS workflow is shown in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. Individual data sources are established at a central repository for a plurality of institutions offering online educational courses step . Alternatively various embodiments allow for flexible data deployment allowing institutions to locally host their data and run reporting engine against the data or to allocate data storage between a central repository and a local repository. A central repository provides the advantage of access to aggregated data for use by benchmarking engine . Authorized users may be granted access to aggregated data across multiple or all institutions at a given level or node within a hierarchy of an institution s . In accordance with various embodiments a central data repository and or data management application provides centralized access to business information and other data for institutions content publishers and other online education service providers. While the description of the invention herein may refer to online education service providers one skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be applicable to other providers industries organizations individuals and businesses.

Any number of measures metrics or data sets may be established for population in a database from any number of applications step . Various measures or metrics are selected for individual or correlated reporting step . Similarly all available metrics or various combinations of metrics may be compared against a given data set to identify a degree of correlation or the relative dependency between metrics. For example by correlating the type and timing of events that historically precede student attrition within a course or program administrators can identify critical times in the course to communicate with students especially those who have been identified as at risk of dropping the course. Administrators may monitor enrollment retention and student activities to identify key events or metrics that correlate with student retention attrition performance and satisfaction step . Key metrics may be similarly identified in association with any business objective by analyzing the correlation between various relevant data sets.

In another example key metrics on course feature usage total time spent in a course and or student instructor activities are monitored by usage tracking engine enabling administrators to determine and establish best student and instructor practices step . For example instructor performance may be compared based on instructor feature usage versus student performance across multiple instructors within the same course type or college. This comparison may reveal which types and timing of instructor student interaction and course tool usage foster student retention course completion student performance and student satisfaction. Best practices may then be standardized disseminated and applied throughout an institution.

In various embodiments benchmarking engine provides benchmarking capabilities whereby administrators may periodically check metrics such as retention enrollment growth student satisfaction for example by course offerings and may compare those metrics to anonymous data reported by other campuses programs courses and institutions step in order to identify targeted areas for improvements. Industry benchmark results may be published or updated periodically by benchmarking engine for example at the end of every term and at the end of the academic year for various metrics and may be updated real time for others. Benchmarking may be completely anonymous or may include some generic information as to size or general location non profit versus for profit or the like of benchmark institutions. Repository administrators may have access to all associated institution data while institution administrators may be allowed access only to aggregate or average data for other institutions. Exemplary anonymous data includes the institution size number of course offerings and type whether for profit non profit or private and the like. Aggregate data may represent an average of any sample size metric or value derived from multiple metrics.

In another embodiment a data mining engine allows users to drill down or drill through aggregate data to access the supporting detailed data step . Data mining also enables enhanced data analysis through predictive modeling based on existing data. For example one data mining engine feature differentiates between enrollment growth and student growth i.e. between the number of course enrollments and the number of students enrolled since students can be enrolled in multiple courses. Thus administrators may monitor growth patterns across multiple terms nodes and or institution s in terms of enrollment or student counts for each term. Terms and courses may be measured according to a standard scheduled offering or may be self paced. The growth patterns can be identified based upon any number or combination of terms time periods metrics or nodes selected.

In various exemplary embodiments reporting engine provides reporting templates standard and custom reporting tools and data analysis tools for retrieving and rendering data from the data repository step . Reporting engine enable users to generate reports of any given number of metrics. Analysis tools enable users to correlate metrics and or determine trends for or between any number of metrics. Exemplary trends include student enrollment course enrollment course completion student grades student satisfaction course evaluations faculty or administration evaluations and student or faculty time spent within course features. Flexible data analysis tools enable administrators to select any number of relevant metrics or data sets to understand program dynamics and to take appropriate action. Reporting engine may deploy reports from a server hosting institution business data and reporting tools or applications. Reports may be manually generated or may be scheduled to be automatically generated and deployed at fixed periods or following predetermined events. Along with term start and end dates additional report census dates may be specified for example per term as the last day for students to drop a course.

Standard reports or canned reports refers to reports that have been pre designed to address specific question s based upon specific data types. Such reports may be generated and deployed by reporting engine from the central repository or may be generated locally to an institution accessing central repository data or a mixture of local and central repository data. The term custom reports refers to reports or queries that can be designed by a user to address any number of metrics. These may be one time reports or they may be saved for addition to the list of regularly created reports. Thus custom reports may be based upon the preferences of any user at any given time with any available data. Custom reports may be saved and regularly updated and deployed to users.

In an exemplary custom report an administrator may request a report with any number of individual or correlated metrics over any period and further over a term or course. Reported time data may be selectable to display user activity at certain events for example the number of hours spent by an instructor during an initial period of a course or the number of hours spent by students within a set period prior to examinations. In one embodiment reported data is nested for example by term course feature user and time. Data may be recorded and reported in terms of any desired time period for example in minutes or hours or over days or weeks.

Reports may be automatically generated may be manually generated by institution administrators and or BIS administrators may assist institutions with live technical consulting services to create custom reports. Reports may be customizable for example both as to the metrics selected for reporting and as to the display of results e.g. row column and axis names etc. Reports may include graphical views charts graphs or any other suitable data rendering mechanism now known or later developed. Users may customize labels on reports and display results in any number of standard or customized charts. Standard reports may be designed to specifically address predetermined metrics or business questions or groups of metrics or business questions. Similarly administrators may more readily provide compliance information and reports to accreditation boards and other regulatory bodies to secure and justify funding.

Various embodiments include a custom query engine that provides users the capability to create custom queries and reports. The query engine allows users to search for parse and or combine data to build reports modify existing standard reports select or establish one or multiple dimensions hierarchies and to name and save modified reports or custom reports.

Exemplary reports e.g. standard and or custom include one or more of enrollment i.e. number of billable users in a course student number i.e. named users enrolled in courses combined enrollment growth and student number growth across multiple terms student performance i.e. GPA or learning outcomes enrollment growth within a given course course type node course type across nodes within an institution and the like. Additional reports address the percentage of courses offered that are actually run per node per term and per institution. To determine actual run rates for courses the report compares the courses offered for a term offered at the term start date with how many of those courses actually had students enrolled at a given census date.

Additional exemplary reports address the average number of enrollments per course node term institution and the enrollment growth and student number growth for a term type across multiple terms or nodes. Still additional reports indicate the average number of courses per student the number of faculty per enrollment and per student number of administrators per enrollment and per student course completion and or retention course or instructor evaluation grades per student and or instructor. Any number of custom evaluations and custom reports may be used to monitor any number of metrics.

In an exemplary standard reporting scenario an administrator accesses reporting engine to request a report on the overall enrollment and student number growth across multiple terms. In an exemplary freeform or custom query reporting scenario an administrator accesses a custom query engine and uses freeform queries and drill down methodology for example to identify the relationships i.e. ratios or percentages between students enrollments retention attrition faculty administrators and the like. For example an exemplary custom report may show the ratio of students enrollments to instructors and student hours to instructor hours identified by term and node.

In one exemplary embodiment the usage tracking engine includes modules for tracking usage of course or system tools and interaction between students and instructors or other users step . User tracking data may then be correlated with any desired metric such as student performance relative to established learning objectives. For example administrators may identify common course usage characteristics for students who do not complete courses. Similarly administrators may analyze and measure learning outcomes at the course level. The term learning outcomes includes for example a standard or unit of measure defining the level of understanding or acquisition of defined knowledge or skill sets. In one embodiment learning outcomes include comprehension of a learning content item acquisition of a standardized skill mastery of a standardized learning objective and the like. A more complete description of tracking of learning outcomes is found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 160 487 which is incorporated herein in it entirety.

In one embodiment usage tracking engine monitors use of features in a course such as threaded discussion document sharing gradebook or journal features. User session data is recorded per minute user course term node institution or in any combination of these or similar data. Thus administrators instructors or other authorized users may audit user tracking data to identify for example which features students and instructors use in each course and how much time each spends in each feature in a course. Additionally administrators may determine the average student and or instructor time spent within a given course per day week term etc. For example administrators may track the response time for instructors or help desk personnel to respond to student communications or the time required for an instructor to grade student submissions within a particular feature.

Additional usage tracking data includes how where and when a student registered whether online in person or by mail and whether a student was directly admitted or was wait listed. Similar data or reports may correlate student demographic information with any relevant metric. For example users may generate a custom report correlating enrollment with student demographics to determine where to direct an advertising campaign. In an exemplary usage tracking scenario the tracking tool records data in the central repository indicating the frequency of access to a given feature tool report or function the duration of user access and the identity of the user. Any of the reporting or tracking tools described herein may include charting graphing or similar capabilities in order to support different views and interpretations of data.

Reports and queries may be exported into an Excel spreadsheet export file or to a peripheral device such as a printer or fax server. Reports may include any number of spreadsheet capabilities such as data sorting and mathematical functions to obtain an average total minimum or maximum value and the like. Similarly data filter capabilities my enable users to narrow a search or select a subset of displayed data. Users may sort data columns rename columns rows select graphical displays and export data.

Usage tracking engine in one embodiment tracks user activity by the minute according to the course tool or system feature accessed or by any other relevant criteria or metric. Usage tracking engine may cooperate with or be integral with BIS . An exemplary usage tracking engine includes application programming interfaces APIs and or any other type of hardware or software element suitable to monitor feature usage for features and . Usage tracking engine includes a module s for suitably receiving converting and or compiling information from APIs and for use by BIS . In this example BIS includes an administrator interface view and an instructor interface view . Authorized users may access BIS tools and features from within an associated application or within any suitable administrative BIS interface. An example of an on line education system including content delivery mechanisms and course tools is included in U.S. Pat. No. 6 470 171 which is incorporated herein by reference.

In an exemplary embodiment administrator interface view and instructor interface view include book views that comprise groups of dynamic reports based on real time or frequently updated data. Alternatively static views may be periodically generated based on historical data. Additional reporting tools facilitate regression and correlation analysis. Users may select any desired time period for a given report and may view a given report along a full timeline available for a selected metric. Users may establish goals or target metric values to be included in a report to better observe changes in trends with respect to established goals. For example an administrative user may establish target values and easily monitor trends and the target status for any number of course related metrics such as for example course completion average instructor time per day average student time per day student to instructor ratios program retention and student satisfaction. Any number or type of visual indicators may be used to show trends or compliance of selected metrics relative to established target values.

Another exemplary administrator interface view includes a key metrics view listing multiple selected metrics as well as corresponding target metric values actual metric values status indicators and trend indicators. Views and may include lists of scheduled reports archived reports custom or custom reports benchmark reports notices and the like. Accordingly an administrator or instructor may readily assess a given metric and quickly assess a group of metrics and associated trends.

Yet another exemplary view or includes a dynamic table showing various courses in a selected term course start and completion dates aggregate user activity hours per course tool e.g. document sharing threaded discussion etc and ending enrollment per course. Users may select any number of metrics for comparison by course term user or the like to determine the metrics and factors that affect student retention performance and satisfaction. Since students may enroll in online classes at more than one institution or through more than one campus centralized data storage allows for more complete data analysis across these institutions and campuses.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described herein with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as critical required or essential features or elements of any or all the claims or the invention.

