---

title: Integrated database for tracking shipping information
abstract: Systems and methods of the present invention for using an integrated database for shipping information are provided. Information gathered or entered during shipping label generation may be stored in a database. The label information may concern shipping labels associated with multiple shipping vendors. Information concerning shipping invoices may be received from the multiple shipping vendors are received, and a report may be generated based on the stored label information and the invoice information. The invoice information may also be stored in the database. Further, the invoice information may include electronic data interchange files received through vendor-specific interfaces.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07938315&OS=07938315&RS=07938315
owner: Lynch Marks LLC
number: 07938315
owner_city: Albany
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080115
---
The present application claims the priority benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 928 516 filed May 16 2007 and entitled Methods and Systems for Shipping Management. The present application is related to the nonprovisional applications titled Real Time Pricing Information for Shipping Vendors and Documenting Mail Work Flows filed concurrently herewith. The disclosures of the aforementioned applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to shipment management. More specifically the present invention relates to using an integrated database for tracking shipping information.

There are presently a variety of ways to ship an item. The shipping vendors available to a user may include various well known national and international vendors such as FedEx United Parcel Service UPS United States Postal Service USPS and DHL as well as various local couriers. The availability of shipping services by shipping vendors may vary from location to location. For example a local courier may only provide service within a particular city.

A shipment may also be sent using a variety of shipping options including date and time restrictions packaging options recipient acknowledgement and the like. For example a package may need to be delivered in a padded envelope by a certain date and acknowledged by recipient signature. The availability of various shipping options may also differ from vendor to vendor. For example a particular vendor may not offer overnight shipping some vendors require overnight shipments to be ready for pick up by a certain time some vendors may have size and weight restrictions on overnight shipments etc. In addition to size and weight restrictions various other package specifications e.g. shape contents of package value of contents may also limit the availability of shipping options.

The variety of available shipment options and shipping vendors allows users to tailor their shipments in a variety of ways. Further having multiple options for shipping vendors allows for price shopping and alternatives should a first shipping vendor be unable to ship a package or provide a certain shipping option. However these multiple options for shipment can complicate the record keeping and account reconciliation processes.

A shipment is typically associated with a variety of information from a variety of sources. Such information may include shipping label information invoice information etc. associated with multiple shipping vendors. Presently accounting processes such as record keeping and account reconciliation may often require a user to record information concerning each shipment by each shipping vendor receive an invoice from each shipping vendor review each invoice compare each invoice entry against shipment records and find matches. A user may further be asked to allocate shipping costs from multiple shipping vendors to the appropriate accounts departments clients etc. In addition a user may need to input shipping label and or invoice information into a cost recovery or other accounting system. Managing information in such a manner may be inefficient time consuming and prone to error.

There is therefore a need in the art for improved systems and methods for using an integrated database for shipping information.

Exemplary systems and methods of the present invention provide for using an integrated database for shipping information. In one embodiment information gathered or entered during label generation is stored in a database. The database stores information concerning shipping labels associated with multiple shipping vendors and non invoiced shipments e.g. inter office correspondence USPS mail . Once shipping invoices from the multiple shipping vendors or cost data concerning the non invoiced shipments are received a report may be generated based on the stored label information and or invoice information. The invoice information may include electronic billing information e.g. electronic data interchange EDI files received through vendor specific interfaces data based on intra office shipments data based on upon pre paid shipments such as USPS mail and or data generated from the database. In some embodiments the invoice information is also stored in the database.

Various other embodiments of the present invention include methods for using an integrated database for shipping information. Such methods may include storing label information from a variety of shipping vendors in a database receiving invoice information from the shipping vendors and generating a report based on the label information and invoice information including information entered and stored in the database. In some embodiments the invoice information may be stored in the same database and the report may include information concerning reconciliation between label information and invoice information cost allocation cost recovery billing etc.

Some embodiments of the present invention include systems for using an integrated database for shipping information. Such systems may include a label generator for generating labels for multiple shipping vendors and internally generated shipments a database for storing label information from the generated labels and or a report generator for generating reports based on label information and received invoice information. Other embodiments further include one or more communications interfaces specifically for communicating with each of the multiple shipping vendors.

Embodiments of the present invention also include computer media containing executable instructions for performing the described methods of using an integrated database for shipping information. The instructions may further provide for reconciling label information with invoice information and or generating billing records based on the data stored in the database.

The present invention includes systems and methods for using an integrated database for shipping information. Shipping labels associated with a variety of shipping vendors and non invoiced shipments e.g. inter office shipments USPS mail are generated and label information concerning the shipping labels are stored in a database. When invoices from the various shipping vendors and cost data concerning the non invoiced shipments are received the invoice and cost information along with the label information stored in the database may be used to generate a report. The report may include information concerning reconciliation of label information and invoice information cost allocation cost recovery billing etc.

User network may be a local proprietary network e.g. intranet a part of a larger wide area network and or a hosted network. For example user network may be a local area network LAN in an office. Alternatively a user network for a large organization may span multiple offices in multiple buildings in multiple locations.

User network may include one or more user devices e.g. user devices A and B . Such user devices may include various computing devices workstations etc. that allow users to communicate with various other components of system . For example using user device A a user may designate specifications for shipping labels view label information view invoice information view reports request reports based on various user specifications etc. Each user device e.g. user device A may include a contacts manager e.g. contacts manager A configured to store information regarding various contacts including addresses telephone numbers e mail addresses and the like. Contacts manager A may further correlate contact information with various shipping specifications e.g. a particular address such as a contact s office may be associated with a particular courier service or particular delivery hours . Examples of contacts managers may include Microsoft Outlook Lotus Notes etc.

Accounting system may be any system that an enterprise uses to manage various financial transactions. For example accounting system may be used to handle accounts receivable accounts payable invoice processing cost allocation cost recovery billing etc. To perform such transactions accounting system may require various types of input from one or more sources for example some information may be entered or selected by a user from a shipping vendor s invoice from internally generated intra office transactions from cost information entered manually e.g. United States Postal Service rates etc.

A shipping application may also be installed in user network . Described in further detail with respect to shipping application allows for user devices in user network to perform various communications and transactions with multiple shipping vendors. Shipping application may be any collection of routines that perform various system level functions and may be dynamically loaded and unloaded by hardware and device drivers as required. The modular software components described herein may also be incorporated as part of a larger software platform or integrated as part of an application specific component. In various embodiments shipping application may be installed on a server in user network on one or more user devices in user network or in any other appropriate fashion.

Shipping application may further allow for communications and transactions that are specific to each shipping vendor. The shipping vendors A C may include for example FedEx United Parcel Service UPS and or DHL as well as various local couriers international and intra office transactions.

Input output is configured to allow for communication between shipping application and various other elements of user network . Input output may be configured to communicate using a network port a wireless connector an Ethernet or TCP IP standard etc. Information communicated through input output may include for example various shipping specifications for shipping labels invoice information from various shipping vendors etc.

Label generation module generates labels for shipment. Information in the labels may be provided by a user a contacts manager or contacts database on a user device shipping vendors A C etc. For example a user may enter recipient information using user device A or the user may designate a contact and a contact address listed in a contacts database e.g. Microsoft Outlook Lotus Notes etc. as the recipient of a shipment. Label generation module then generates shipping labels for the designated contact. Various types of label information may be gathered during label generation including user information recipient information tracking numbers billing information client number department codes etc. In some embodiments label information may further include various shipping specifications pricing information etc.

Integrated database is configured to store various types of shipping related information. The information stored in integrated database may include label information invoice information billing information user information etc. concerning multiple shipping vendors and or various international office shipments. Storing the various types of shipping information from the multiple shipping vendors and international services in integrated database allows for efficient retrieval and analysis of such information. For example a user may use multiple shipping vendors in carrying out business for a particular account. Integrated database allows the user to retrieve and analyze label and invoice information from multiple shipping vendors associated with the account without having to gather and review the different types of information from the multiple shipping vendors separately. Further in some embodiments information stored in integrated database may be transmitted to an accounting system e.g. accounting system of user network to be used in cost allocation cost recovery billing etc. Alternatively integrated database may provide information for one or more feeds exports or reports e.g. generated by report generator described below for the accounting system e.g. accounting system .

Communications interface allows for communication with various shipping vendors. In some cases receiving invoice information from a particular vendor may involve using a particular interface specific to that vendor and communications interface may include various vendor specific application programming interfaces APIs . For example receiving an invoice from FedEx may involve using an API specific to FedEx receiving an invoice from UPS may involve using an API specific to UPS and so forth. In some embodiments communications interface may be used to receive electronic data interchange EDI files associated with shipping invoices from a particular shipping vendor. EDI files are files that confirm to a set of standards for electronic transmission between businesses. Such EDI files may be received from a shipping vendor and stored in integrated database . In some embodiments invoice information may be pulled directly from the label generation including data entered during label generation.

Invoice processing module is configured to receive and process invoice information from shipping invoices associated with multiple shipping vendors. In some embodiments invoice processing module receives EDI files from various shipping vendors and extracts various invoice information from the EDI files. Invoice processing module may also provide the invoice information to integrated database for storage.

Report generation module provides one or more reports concerning shipping information such as label information and invoice information. Reports may further be based on various report specifications. The shipping information is provided by integrated database and report specifications may be provided by a user a system administrator etc. For example a user may request a report concerning a particular account a particular department particular dates etc. Some reports may be generated regularly such as monthly accounting reports. Label information from FedEx shipments for example may be compared and associated with shipping invoice information from FedEx by report generation module and the accounting staff alerted to any discrepancies so that the accounting staff may request credit from FedEx . The same may be done for label and invoice information associated with UPS DHL etc. Further a shipping invoice or shipping invoice entry concerning a particular shipment may be matched or associated with corresponding label information from that same shipment. Reports generated by report generation module may also be used as input for accounting system for cost allocation cost recovery billing requests for credit from the shipping vendors etc.

In step a shipping label is generated based on various shipping specifications. The shipping label may be generated by a label generator e.g. label generation module to be vendor specific to one of various shipping vendors such as FedEx UPS USPS DHL local couriers intra office shipments etc.

In step label information is stored in an integrated database e.g. integrated database . A shipping label may include information concerning for example the sender the recipient the shipping vendor the various shipping specifications a tracking number billing codes department codes etc. In some embodiments of the present invention label information gathered during label generation may further include pricing information delivery information billing information etc.

In step shipping invoices are received. Some shipping vendors may send a user a shipping invoice concerning various shipments sent by the respective shipping vendor. A shipping invoice may include information concerning for example invoice numbers shipping options final pricing information discounts and surcharges etc. In some embodiments the invoice information may be included in an electronic billing file e.g. EDI file which may be received electronically. Alternatively some embodiments of the present invention may allow for entry of non electronic invoices e.g. paper invoices .

In step the invoice information is stored in the integrated database e.g. integrated database . As a result the integrated database includes the invoice information in addition to the label information concerning multiple shipping vendors and intra office shipments.

In optional step label information and invoice information are reconciled. For example information from an invoice from FedEx may be compared to information on various shipping labels on shipments sent through FedEx . The shipping labels may be matched with corresponding invoice entries on various invoices. In some embodiments label information may be only a subset of the information appearing on a shipping invoice. Any discrepancies may be noted and or accounting staff may be alerted to any discrepancies.

In step a report is generated based on the label information and invoice information or data derived from other shipping transactions e.g. USPS mail and intra Office shipments . For example a report may list discrepancies between label information and invoice information where for example an invoice indicates a cost vastly different from the pricing information indicated in the label information. The report may further be based on various report specifications designated by a user a system administrator etc. For example a user may wish to view all shipping information related to a particular department or user. A report may be generated to include only the shipping information related to the indicated department or indicated user.

Some reports may be used as input in accounting systems e.g. accounting system . For example some users may bill clients for shipments sent on the clients behalf. A user may generate a report concerning shipments associated with a particular client and the report may be used as input in calculating a bill for that client.

While the present invention has been described in connection with a series of preferred embodiment these descriptions are not intended to limit the scope of the invention to the particular forms set forth herein. It will be further understood that the methods of the invention are not necessarily limited to the discrete steps or the order of the steps described. To the contrary the present descriptions are intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims and otherwise appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

