---

title: Controlled cancellation for production flow and physical assets
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention provide a method, system and computer program product for controlling cancelled orders in a manufacturing environment. In an embodiment of the invention, a method for controlling cancelled orders in a manufacturing environment can be provided. The method can include receiving a cancellation of an order in the manufacturing environment, reading a list of work units associated with the order, obtaining at least one identifying attribute of each work unit in the list of work units associated with the order, reading a space maximum value associated with at least one identifying attribute of each work unit in the list of work units associated with the order, reading a stock maximum value associated with the at least one identifying attribute of each work unit in the list of work units associated with the order, determining a current stock value associated with at least one identifying attribute of a first work unit in the list of work units associated with the order, and if the current stock value is less than the space maximum value and the stock maximum value, setting a valid cancel optimization status indicator of the first work unit. The method can further include retrieving a cancel optimization model record matching the at least one identifying attribute of the first work unit, and can include applying the retrieved optimization model record to the first work unit to modify a process routing map of the first work unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08290606&OS=08290606&RS=08290606
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08290606
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080530
---
The present invention relates to integrated supply chain management and more particularly to an order cancellation management system that can optimize manufacturing activity of work in process products by adjusting the production routing and flow for product work units of the cancelled order.

Generally in integrated supply chain manufacturing systems customers access an order management system to place product orders via a user interface e.g. via a computer in communication with the Internet. Upon the generation of a valid order a production configure to order CTO process is performed. CTO orders identify the parts or components that are needed for manufacturing of a certain product. These parts or components are stocked in various storage locations until identified and pulled for usage in the products. In today s manufacturing environment many of the CTO orders are for one or more large complex systems. These large complex systems typically are comprised of multiple top level production units commonly referred to as work units. The top level e.g. parent work units may be comprised of various subassembly e.g. child work units. For example a server rack which is a top level work unit can include multiple drawers which are subassembly work units installed within the server rack. A single CTO order can include multiple server racks and or other work units.

In order to fulfill a CTO order various pieces e.g. work units of the order will flow through production during manufacturing. In this sense multiple parallel production lines can operate simultaneously to produce various work units of the CTO order. The time for producing the various work units will vary during the production cycle. In other words various work units will be in various stages of completeness or progress at different points in the production process. For example some work units can be completely assembled but not tested. Other work units can have some subassembly work units that are assembled and tested and other subassembly work units that have yet to commence assembly.

One issue that arises in the modern manufacturing environment is how to effectively handle an order cancellation to preserve manufacturing value added production already performed on the cancelled order. Currently when the cancellation of an order occurs the standard industry practice is to halt all activity on that cancelled order. Afterward a manual decision regarding how to dispense with the in process order is made. Typically the decision is to 1 tear down the order into parts or 2 reapply to a new order. Other manufacturers permit one additional decision which is to allow an entire system to progress to a certain stage of the manufacturing process. The problem with any of these options is that an order is made up of several pieces e.g. work units and each of these pieces e.g. work units will have a different status or measurement of progress in the manufacturing process. Each of these industry practices results in significant inefficiencies. Decisions to tear down are inefficient as all manufacturing value added work will be lost on those parts e.g. work units of the system that are near completion. Decisions to reapply have similar negative implications. Finally decisions allowing an entire system to proceed require that an entire system be assembled and then allowed to progress to a completion stage. The decision allowing an entire system to proceed results in the addition of excessive manufacturing activity particularly with respect to those work units of the system for which assembly has not yet commenced.

Embodiments of the present invention address deficiencies of the art in respect to loss of invested manufacturing activity on cancelled work in process system orders and provide a novel and non obvious method system and computer program product for controlling cancelled orders in a manufacturing environment. In an embodiment of the invention a method for controlling cancelled orders in a manufacturing environment can be provided. The method can include receiving a cancellation of an order in the manufacturing environment reading a list of work units associated with the order obtaining at least one identifying attribute of each work unit in the list of work units associated with the order reading a space maximum value associated with at least one identifying attribute of each work unit in the list of work units associated with the order reading a stock maximum value associated with the at least one identifying attribute of each work unit in the list of work units associated with the order determining a current stock value associated with at least one identifying attribute of a first work unit in the list of work units associated with the order and if the current stock value is less than the space maximum value and the stock maximum value setting a valid cancel optimization status indicator of the first work unit.

In one aspect of the embodiment the method can further include retrieving a cancel optimization model record matching the at least one identifying attribute of the first work unit and can include applying the retrieved optimization model record to the first work unit to modify a process routing map of the first work unit.

In another aspect of the embodiment the method yet further can include determining the first work unit is a parent work unit reading a list of child work units installed in the parent work unit obtaining at least one identifying attribute for each child work unit installed in the parent work unit reading a stock maximum value associated with the at least one identifying attribute of each child work unit determining a current child stock value associated with the at least one identifying attribute of each child work unit and if the current child stock value for each child work unit is less than the associated stock maximum value for each child work unit retrieving a cancel optimization model record matching the at least one identifying attribute of the parent work unit.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention a system for controlling cancelled orders in a manufacturing environment can be provided. The system can include a data store of work unit routings and cancel optimization management rules and data. The system further can include a process adjustment for cancel optimization engine communicatively coupled to a manufacturing system and the data store. The system further can include cancelled order process adjustment logic. The logic can include program code enabled to receive a cancellation of an order in the manufacturing environment to read a list of work units associated with the order to obtain at least one identifying attribute of each work unit in the list of work units associated with the order to read a space maximum value associated with at least one identifying attribute of each work unit in the list of work units associated with the order to read a stock maximum value associated with the at least one identifying attribute of each work unit in the list of work units associated with the order to determine a current stock value associated with at least one identifying attribute of a first work unit in the list of work units associated with the order and if the current stock value is less than the space maximum value and the stock maximum value to set a valid cancel optimization status indicator of the first work unit.

In one aspect of the embodiment the logic further can include program code enabled to retrieve a cancel optimization model record matching the at least one identifying attribute of the first work unit and to apply the retrieved optimization model record to the first work unit to modify a process routing map of the first work unit.

In another aspect of the embodiment the logic yet further can include program code enabled to determine the first work unit is a parent work unit to read a list of child work units installed in the parent work unit to obtain at least one identifying attribute for each child work unit installed in the parent work unit to read a stock maximum value associated with the at least one identifying attribute of each child work unit to determine a current child stock value associated with the at least one identifying attribute of each child work unit and if the current child stock value for each child work unit is less than the stock maximum value for each child work unit to retrieve a cancel optimization model record matching the at least one identifying attribute of the parent work unit.

In yet another preferred embodiment of the invention a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium embodying computer usable program code for controlling cancelled orders in a manufacturing environment can be provided. The computer program product includes computer usable program code for receiving a cancellation of an order in the manufacturing environment reading a list of work units associated with the order obtaining at least one identifying attribute of each work unit in the list of work units associated with the order reading a space maximum value associated with at least one identifying attribute of each work unit in the list of work units associated with the order reading a stock maximum value associated with the at least one identifying attribute of each work unit in the list of work units associated with the order determining a current stock value associated with at least one identifying attribute of a first work unit in the list of work units associated with the order and if the current stock value is less than the space maximum value and the stock maximum value setting a valid cancel optimization status indicator of the first work unit.

Additional aspects of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. The aspects of the invention will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Embodiments of the present invention address deficiencies of the art in respect to loss of invested manufacturing activity on cancelled work in process system orders and provide a novel and non obvious method system and computer program product for controlling cancelled orders in a manufacturing environment. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a set of cancel optimization strategies or models and a set of user defined maximum cancel stock attributes for use in the manufacturing environment can be defined. An order cancel request can be received in the manufacturing area and a list of top level work units e.g. products for a manufacturing order can be read. At least one identifying attribute of a first work unit identified in the list of top level work units can be obtained and used to read or retrieve a space maximum quantity value associated with the at least one identifying attribute of the first work unit. In addition the at least one identifying attribute of the first work unit identified in the list of top level work units can be used to read or retrieve a stock maximum quantity value associated with the at least one identifying attribute of the first work unit. A current stock value associated with the at least one identifying attribute of the first work unit can be determined and compared to the space maximum quantity value and the stock maximum value. If the current stock value is less than the space maximum value and the stock maximum value then a valid cancel optimization status indicator can be set for the first work unit. If the valid cancel optimization status indicator is set for the first work unit then a search of the cancel optimization data store can be performed and any records matching the at least one identifying attribute of the first work unit can be read and sorted by priority value. In turn the highest priority cancel optimization model record can be selected and applied to the attributes or characteristics of the first work unit. If the attributes or characteristics of the highest priority cancel optimization model record do not match the attributes or characteristics of the product work unit the next highest priority cancel optimization model record can be selected and applied. This process continues until either a matching cancel optimization model is identified or no cancel optimization model records remain. In this way the manufacturing value added production can be analyzed or weighted in terms of process test and or parts installed. In another aspect of the embodiment the method further can include determining the first work unit is a parent work unit reading a list of child work units installed in the parent work unit obtaining at least one identifying attribute for each child work unit installed in the parent work unit reading a stock maximum value associated with the at least one identifying attribute of each child work unit determining a current child stock value associated with the at least one identifying attribute of each child work unit and if the current child stock value for each child work unit is less than the stock maximum value for each child work unit retrieving a cancel optimization model record matching the at least one identifying attribute of the parent work unit.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a system to create new methods models and set of algorithms for controlling cancelled orders in a manufacturing environment a data store of work unit routings and cancel optimization management rules and data. The system can include a process adjustment for cancel optimization engine and cancelled order process adjustment logic. The logic can include program code enabled to receive a cancellation of an order in the manufacturing environment to read a list of work units associated with the order to obtain at least one identifying attribute of each work unit in the list of work units associated with the order to read a space maximum value associated with the at least one identifying attribute of each work unit in the list of work units associated with the order to read a stock maximum value associated with the at least one identifying attribute of each work unit in the list of work units associated with the order to determine a current stock value associated with at least one identifying attribute of a first work unit and if the current stock value is less than the space maximum value and the stock maximum value to set a valid cancel optimization status indicator for the first work unit. The cancel optimization models allow for an automated and dynamic method to preserve manufacturing value added production already performed on a product work unit by product work unit basis.

In illustration is a schematic illustration of a manufacturing system utilizing a process adjustment for cancel optimization. A computer with an operating system can be coupled to a database of product management data including production configure to order CTO record information work unit attributes stocked or staged e.g. loc ed data cancel optimization models and or maximum cancel stock data. A manufacturing system can be coupled to a process adjustment for cancel optimization engine . Cancel optimization management rules can be coupled to the manufacturing system and the process adjustment for cancel optimization engine . The cancel optimization management rules can enable the manufacturing system or the process adjustment for cancel optimization engine to apply a real time process routing adjustment for cancel order optimization analysis to preserve value added production already performed on a cancelled CTO order on a work unit by work unit basis. The selection of which cancel optimization model of cancel optimization rules to apply can be based on numerous factors including but not limited to product line production identification ID bill of materials BOM specific part type level of operation progress level of test completeness and percentage of installed parts. The computer can be coupled to order management system and tracking equipment via computer communications network for tracking work units of cancelled CTO orders.

In further illustration is a flowchart illustrating a real time process adjustment for cancel optimization analysis in a manufacturing supply chain environment. In block an order cancel request can be generated or issued by a business partner customer client or the like. In block an order management system in a manufacturing environment can receive the order cancel request and determine a matching production configure to order CTO order record and retrieve the matched CTO record which can include a listing of all top level work units WU and the corresponding configuration information for each associated work unit in block . In block a process to create or generate production routings e.g. process routing maps for the CTO order typically occurs and each order unit e.g. each parent work unit and child work unit can be assigned a work unit routing such as a process routing map. The work unit routing can include a complete end to end mapping of the manufacturing process to which a particular work unit will be subjected to while passing through manufacturing. For example in block there are illustrated various production activities or operations such as kitting of parts subassembly build drawer build rack merger test and clean pack.

In embodiments a manufacture entity e.g. a server rack with assigned product identification ID can be assigned a work unit routing e.g. a process routing map which can detail the end to end production process for that server rack. The process routing map of the server rack can include for example the merge stage where child work units e.g. drawers are installed in the server rack and the system test stage where various tests of the server rack can be performed. The process routing map of the server can include individual assembly routings test routings and group routings. In block the production routings e.g. each of the work unit routings generated in block can be stored in a repository for retrieval and use at a later stage of production. In block the process adjustment for cancel optimization engine can be invoked by computer or manufacturing system . In blocks and the process adjustment for cancel optimization engine can include cancelled order process adjustment logic for modeling or defining a set of cancel optimization management rules in a manufacturing facility with their corresponding attributes and or characteristics.

Additionally in block the process adjustment for cancel optimization engine can include cancelled order process adjustment logic for modeling a set of cancel optimization strategies and a set of maximum cancel stock strategies based on the attributes and or characteristics of a cancelled order product and any other user defined parameters. The cancelled order process adjustment logic can be coupled to the process adjustment for cancel optimization engine either directly as part of the computing system or remotely through an application programming interface API of the computing system. The cancelled order process adjustment logic can include program code enabled to analyze a cancelled order determine the composition of products and or work units in the cancelled order and determine the related attributes and or characteristics of each work unit in order to select cancel optimization strategy most responsive to a particular product affected by the cancelled order. Typically the modeling of cancel optimization models and maximum cancel stock models will occur once e.g. during an initialization stage of the system however the modeling can occur multiple times e.g. at user defined stages.

In an embodiment of the system cancelled order process adjustment logic can include program code enabled to receive a cancellation of an order in the manufacturing environment to read a list of work units associated with the order to obtain at least one identifying attribute of a first work unit of the order to read a space maximum value associated with the at least one identifying attribute of the first work unit to determine a current stock value associated with the at least one identifying attribute of the first work unit and if the current stock value is less than the space maximum value to set a valid cancel optimization status indicator for the first work unit. The process adjustment for cancel optimization analysis is described in greater detail with reference to . Cancel optimization management rules including cancel optimization models and maximum cancel stock attributes and or characteristics are described in greater detail with reference to the tables of and .

For example each row of the block contains the data corresponding to a cancel optimization model strategy while each column contains one or more values associated with a product identifier. The first column of block is populated with a priority value such as 1 and 2 . The second column of block is populated with the product line name such as 1.8M RS which is a name that identifies a particular product line having one or more of the products and or work units identified in a cancelled order. In one embodiment the second third fourth and fifth columns of block indicated the product line product ID bill of material BOM and part number. The sixth and seventh columns of block are populated with a minimum operation value e.g. MIN Op and a maximum operation value e.g. MAX Op that provide a range of operation for use in measuring the progress of a product work unit. As such a current level of operation for a particular product work unit can be compared to the range of operation to determine the progress of a particular product work unit and to help determine the selection of the appropriate cancel optimization model. The eighth column of block is populated with a minimum test complete value e.g. MIN Test Complete which can be used to verify that the minimum test operations for the product work unit where completed and to help determine the selection of the appropriate cancel optimization model. The ninth column of block is populated with a part percentage install value e.g. Part Install which can be used as a threshold level to help determine the selection of the appropriate cancel optimization model.

The tenth column of block is populated with a last operation identifier e.g. last Op which can be used to modify the routing or processing of the product work unit by setting an end point . In embodiments the last operation identifier can be used to modify a current process map of a particular product work unit by setting the last operation to be performed to the last operation identifier presented in the tenth column of block . For example an END command can be set after the specified last Op in the process map of the particular product work unit that currently is being analyzed or processed. In other embodiments instead of modifying the existing process map a new process map can be generated for the particular product work unit. The eleventh column of block is populated with stock location which can provide a staging location for the particular cancelled product work unit. In embodiments the cancel optimization model records of block work with Boolean logic that assumes AND positive logic only and therefore all the attributes and or characteristics of a given cancel optimization model record are necessary for the selection of the corresponding cancel optimization strategy. Other Boolean logic can be used to provide more complex relationships among the attributes. Although block illustrates a total of eleven attributes and or characteristics for a given cancel optimization model record there may be more or less attributes and or characteristics depending on a particular business s needs or requirements. Similarly for block of it is contemplated that more or less columns with corresponding control and or data parameters can be provided as necessary to execute the real time process adjustment for cancel optimization analysis of .

In further illustration is a flowchart illustrating a validity stage of a real time process adjustment for cancel optimization process utilized by the process adjustment for cancel optimization engine of . In embodiments the validity stage analyzes the available floor space and the quantity of each production work unit to determine whether that particular production work unit type is a valid candidate for cancel optimization. Beginning in block a set of production CTO orders in a manufacturing facility with their corresponding lists of products and or work units can be supplied to the process adjustment for cancel optimization engine in block . In block a set of maximum cancel stock strategies with their corresponding attributes and or characteristics can be established or modeled and supplied to the process adjustment for cancel optimization engine in block and in block . Typically the modeling of the maximum cancel stock strategies will occur once e.g. during an initialization stage of the system however the modeling can occur multiple times e.g. at user defined stages.

In block a list of all stocked staged and or loc ed work units including work in process work units that were progressed due to a previous cancel action can be provided to the process adjustment for cancel optimization engine in block and in block . In block an order cancel request can be received and all production work units associated with the cancelled manufacturing order can be read and listed in block . In block a first work unit can be selected from the list of production work units associated with the cancelled manufacturing order and analyzed in decision block . If the selected work unit is a parent work unit e.g. a work unit that has other work units installed in it then in block the quantity of all stocked work units installed in the parent work unit sometimes referred to as child or sublevel work units are read from the list of all stocked staged and or loc ed work units including work in process work units provided in block . In decision block each work unit type installed in the parent can be analyzed and a determination of whether any single child work unit exceeds that particular unit s stock maximum quantity value e.g. stock MAX QTY can be made. In embodiments the stock maximum quantity value can be provided in block from the maximum cancel stock models. If the current stock quantity of any single child work unit type exceeds its stock MAX QTY in block the cancel operation for that parent work unit will proceed and all further processing for that parent will be halted. Otherwise if current stock quantity of no child work unit type exceeds its stock MAX QTY the parent work unit can proceed to decision block .

If in decision block the selected work unit is not a parent work unit then in block the quantity of all stocked work units of this product work unit type are read from the list of all stocked staged and or loc ed work units including work in process work units provided in block . In decision block each product work unit type can be analyzed and a determination of that particular unit s space maximum quantity value e.g. space MAX QTY can be made. If the current stock quantity of this product work unit type exceeds its space MAX QTY in block the cancel operation for that product work unit will proceed and all further processing for that product work unit will be halted. Otherwise if current stock quantity of product work unit type does not exceed its space MAX QTY in decision block a determination of whether the current stock quantity of this product work unit exceeds that particular unit s stock maximum quantity value e.g. stock MAX QTY can be made. If the current stock quantity of this product work unit type exceeds its stock MAX QTY in block the cancel operation for that product work unit will proceed and all further processing for that product work unit will be halted. Otherwise if the current stock quantity of this product work unit type does not exceed its stock MAX QTY in block the product work unit can be identified e.g. setting a valid cancel optimization status indicator as a valid product work unit for continued cancel optimization processing and proceed to a weighting stage of a real time process adjustment for cancel optimization process in block of .

In decision block a determination if any product work units in the cancelled manufacturing order remain to be processed if none remain to be processed then each product work unit type identified as a valid product work unit for continued cancel optimization processing in block can proceed to a weighting stage of a real time process adjustment for cancel optimization analysis in block of . Otherwise the next remaining product work unit can be selected in block and processed as described above commencing with block .

In still further illustration is a flowchart illustrating a weighting stage of a real time process adjustment for cancel optimization process utilized by the process adjustment for cancel optimization engine of . Beginning in block a set of cancel optimization strategies or models can be defined as previously described with reference to and retrieved. In block the each cancel model record that matches all identifying attributes of a product work unit e.g. product line production ID BOM and part number and that have a current operation between the minimum operation value e.g. MIN Op and maximum operation value e.g. MAX Op can be read or retrieved. In this embodiment the cancel optimization model records of block operate with Boolean logic that assumes AND positive logic only and therefore all the attributes and or characteristics of a given cancel optimization model record are necessary for the selection of the corresponding cancel optimization strategy. The product work unit also can include a valid cancel optimization status indicator as previously described in block of . Once all matching cancel model records are read these matching cancel model records can be sorted by a priority value associated with the respective matching cancel model record as illustrated in the first column of block . Thereafter the first matching cancel model record can be selected and the process adjustment for cancel optimization engine can be invoked in block . If no matching cancel model record is retrieved or if all the retrieved matching cancel model records do not meet the minimum test complete threshold and or part percentage installed threshold then in block the process can be to proceed with the cancel and halt further processing of the product work unit and any associated work units e.g. work units installed within the product work unit.

Alternatively or in addition to in block the cancel optimization model records that match at least one identifying attribute of a product work unit e.g. product line production ID BOM and part number and that have a current operation between the MIN Op and the MAX Op can be read or retrieved. It is contemplated that other Boolean logic can be used to provide more complex relationships among the attributes.

In decision block the current test complete percentage for the product work unit can be determined and compared to a minimum test complete threshold e.g. a Min Test Complete value. If the current test complete percentage for the product work unit exceeds the minimum test complete threshold e.g. a Min Test Complete value of 50 then in decision block the current percentage of parts installed in the product work unit can be determined and compared to the required percentage of parts installed threshold value e.g. Part Install. Otherwise if the current test complete percentage for the product work unit does not exceed the minimum test complete threshold then the process can return to block where the next matching cancel model record is retrieved. If the current percentage of parts installed in the product work unit exceeds the required percentage of parts installed threshold value e.g. Part Install is 90 then in block the process map for the current product work unit can be modified to adjust its routing. Otherwise if the current percentage of parts installed in the product work unit does not exceed the required percentage of parts installed threshold value the process can return to block where the next matching cancel model record can be retrieved. In embodiments the process map can be modified by setting an END command after the specified last operation to create a new strategic end point in the process to provide a reusable base asset. In embodiments instead of modifying the process map of the product work unit a new process map could be generated for the identified product work unit.

In decision block the current operation for the product work unit can be determined and compared to a last operation threshold value e.g. a last Op value of Test . For example the current operation for the product work unit can be Drawer Build . In this example the current operation of Drawer Build is less than the last Op value of Test and as such the current operation is not modified to equal the new last Op of Test and proceeds to block where a status of the product work unit can be set to indicate it is was associated with a cancelled order but with allowed continued processing. Otherwise if the current operation for the product work unit e.g. current op value is Ship is greater than the last Op value e.g. last Op value is Test then in block the current operation is modified to equal the new last Op of Test and the process map for this product work unit is modified e.g. by setting the current operation to be equal to the last op of Test and proceeds to block where a status of the product work unit can be set to indicate it is was associated with a cancelled order but with allowed continued processing. Upon completion of one product work unit the process for controlling cancelled orders in a manufacturing environment can return to block where the records matching the attributes and characteristics of the next product work unit can be read and processed.

In embodiments in decision block instead of comparing a current test complete percentage for the product work unit to a minimum test complete threshold e.g. a Min Test Complete value the decision can be based on a percentage of completed operation activities e.g. operation steps performed. Alternatively or in addition to the decision in decision block can be based on an application call.

The present invention can be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. An implementation of the method and system of the present invention can be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited to perform the functions described herein.

A typical combination of hardware and software could be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein. The present invention can also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods.

Embodiments of the invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode and the like. Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system.

For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

Computer program or application in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form. Significantly this invention can be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof and accordingly reference should be had to the following claims rather than to the foregoing specification as indicating the scope of the invention.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

