---

title: Methods and apparatus for determining distances to selected targets on a golf course using a wireless communication device
abstract: Devices, apparatus, systems, methods, and computer program products are provided for determining distances to targets, such as targets on a golf course using a wireless communication device. Wireless device implementation allows for existing devices to be configured with the requisite application to provide for golf course distance measuring capabilities according to the present aspects. Present aspects provide for accurate and automated determination of the distance to the target, such as a transitory target like a golf cup. Current aspects may utilize communication network-based and/or satellite based systems to determine the distance to the desired target and provide for automatic position/location fixes to be performed when a target, such as a golf cup, is moved to a new location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08460111&OS=08460111&RS=08460111
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08460111
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080619
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 945 086 entitled METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR DETERMINING DISTANCES TO SELECTED TARGETS ON A GOLF COURSE USING A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE filed Jun. 19 2007 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The described aspects relate to a wireless communication device and more particularly to apparatus and methods of determining distances to a golf cup and related targets on a golf course using a wireless communication device.

Avid golfers are aware of the importance of knowing as accurately as possible the distance between the golf ball and the golf cup or hole located on the green. In addition golfers also desire to know the distance between the golf ball and hazards on the golf course such as water hazards bunkers and the like. Knowing these distances allows the golfer to make the proper golf club selection and to choose a strategy for addressing and hitting the ball based on the current lie of the ball weather wind conditions hole location on the green and the like.

A golfer or caddie will use yardage books that include yardage calculations especially during a competitive tournament. The yardage calculations are relied upon to determine the distance between a ball currently being played and the golf cup or a hazard on the hole being played. Yardage books provide an advantage over guessing the distance based on a visual inspection. However the yardage books require familiarity with the course being played in that the book is prepared prior to the round of golf. Such preparation is inconvenient and for the recreational golfer often times inconceivable. In other instances yardage books may be purchased for a specified course through the pro shop however these books tend to be costly. In addition yardage books require measuring distances from designated landmarks on a specific hole and making on the spot calculations to determine the distance. Additionally approximations are made for location of the tee boxes and or the location of the golf cup on the green both of which may vary on a day to day basis. Thus not only are the determinations prone to human error the determinations also tend to be very time consuming exasperating the slow play problem that plagues many golf courses and or tournaments.

The recreational golfer will rely on markings on the golf course to determine distance. For example many courses mark the sprinkler heads with the yardage to the green or post a marker at the 100 150 and or 200 yard position from the center of the green. However these markers pose the same problems as the yardage books. They require human interaction walking off footpaces to the marker to determine an actual distance which is prone to error and very time consuming. Additionally the marked distance is to the center of the green and therefore does not take into account the actual position of the golf cup on the green.

Monocular type devices that employ laser rangefinders can be used to enable visual determination of the distance. However the flagstick is in most instances required to be in the hole in order to take a reading thus prohibiting use while the foursome in front of the golfer is using the green making use of the device inefficient in terms of time management. Additionally preferably the golfer has line of sight to the flagstick or another target such as a bunker or body of water in order to take a reading. However in many instances on a golf course a golfer will not have a line of sight to the flagstick or target such as in the instance of a blind shot thus making such devices unusable.

Current distance measuring devices and course markings are relegated to determining distance to the center of the golf green as opposed to the actual location of the golf cup. However these measurements to the center of the green may be wrought with inaccuracy. Golf greens may not have a true center and the distance from the center to the periphery of the green may be significant. For example anything over a few yards may be deemed significant in the eyes of a golfer trying to assess a golf shot. Further golf cups are transitory in nature and are rarely placed in the exact center of a green. More often the golf cup will be placed closer to the periphery of the green nearer a hazard to make the hole more challenging to the golfers.

With regard to the transitory nature of the golf cup a greens keeper will change the location of the golf cup each day or every few days. This is done on two accounts to lessen foot traffic around the cup and thus insure green integrity and to make the hole more challenging. For example in a four round golf tournament the cup location is changed after every round to maximize the challenge presented to the golfers. As such inaccuracies in determining the distance to a cup may be the difference in making a shot that lands within inches of the golf cup versus a shot that lands in a water hazard or bunker.

Further for example Global Positioning System GPS devices have been employed either in handheld devices or incorporated in golf carts to determine distances on a golf course. GPS devices use satellites to determine a position of the device based on triangulation type calculation. However GPS devices can be limited to providing only the distance to the front back and center of the green as opposed to the actual location of the golf cup. Thus such devices still require the golfer to make an interpolation and or calculation as to the exact location of the golf cup on the green.

The use of golf cart based GPS type systems by golf courses is very limited due to the high overhead costs incurred in either retrofitting existing golf carts or purchasing entirely new and expensive golf carts. Additionally golf cart based systems require the golf cart to be located proximate to the golf ball and thus in some situations such as when the course prohibits carts leaving the cart paths due to wet ground or when the ball is located somewhere a cart is incapable of going it would be impossible to receive accurate distance measurements.

A problem with current handheld GPS type devices is that golf course information such as the course layout is preloaded on the device prior to playing a round of golf. Preloading requires the device to be docked or otherwise connected to a computer to download the requisite course information. If the golfer forgets to preload the course information or does not have ready access to a networked computer prior to playing a round the GPS device is rendered useless for that particular round of golf.

Additionally many of the handheld devices are standalone devices specifically dedicated to providing golf course information. Such devices are generally expensive in a number of respects. For example such devices require the golfer to purchase the standalone device and further require the golfer to purchase and load the device with the proper information prior to the round of golf.

Therefore a need exists for an improved system for measuring the distance on a golf course specifically the distance from the current ball shot location to the golf cup.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Present aspects provide for methods devices systems and computer program products for determining the distance to a target such as a golf cup hole on a golf course and optionally to related targets on a golf course. Present aspects provide for accurate and automated determination of the distance to the target e.g. golf cup and optionally to related targets. Current aspects utilize a geographic positioning system such as Global Positioning System GPS and or communication network based systems to determine the distance to the target e.g. golf cup. Further when the target is moved according to a schedule such as the golf cup being moved about the green on a regularly scheduled basis present aspects provide for the system to automatically record the new location of the target such as the golf cup without requiring the greens keeper or any other golf course employee to perform a required action related to taking a location reading. In this regard problems related to human error such as the groundskeeper employee failing to take a location reading on one or more holes or failing to properly use the equipment needed to take the location reading can be minimized.

Additionally present aspects provide for golf course information such as the location of the golf cup related targets course layout and the like to be communicated via a wireless network such as a cellular network to a wireless device such as a cellular telephone or the like. In this regard the golfer user may obtain golf course information at any point in time prior to or during a round of golf obviating the need to pre load golf course information via a wired connection to a communication network. In some aspects the golf course information may be communicated automatically when the golfer user is on or in the near vicinity of the course. An additional benefit of one or more of the present aspects is that the system can be configured to operate on an existing wireless device such as a cellular telephone thereby eliminating the need for the golfer user to purchase or carry an additional device or for the GPS system to be installed in golf carts.

In one aspect a method for determining distance to a golf cup on a golf course is provided. The method includes obtaining a wireless device geographic location and a golf cup geographic location related to the one of the plurality of golf cups. The golf cup geographic location is determined based on occurrence of an automatic event such as a predetermined event or the like. The method further includes obtaining a distance to the golf cup based on the wireless device geographic location and the golf cup geographic location and presenting the distance to the golf cup on the wireless device.

In one optional aspect of the method the automatic event may include sensing a predetermined level of motion in the golf cup or the occurrence of a predetermined set time. In another aspect the automatic event may be a predetermined time of day which upon occurrence triggers location determination at the golf cup. The predetermined time of day will generally occur after the normal time of day at which the golf cups are moved to new locations on the golf hole green.

In yet another aspect of the method the automatic event may be receipt of a remote trigger. For example a network device Position Determining Entity PDE may receive from a wireless device a trigger to perform location determination of a golf cup. In some aspects the remote trigger is based on a user input to an input mechanism on the wireless device for requesting a distance to the golf cup measurement. In such aspects the golf cup location determination may coincide with a wireless device location determination such that both location determinations occur at substantially the same point in time. By conducting both the wireless device and the golf cup location determinations at substantially the same point in time inaccuracies in the location due to satellite positioning are viewed as being generally equivalent for each location determination.

In some aspects of the method obtaining the wireless device geographic location and the golf cup geographic location and subsequent obtaining of the distance to the golf cup is automatic based on initiation of golf course distance measuring application. In other aspects of the method obtaining the wireless device geographic location and the golf cup geographic location and subsequent obtaining of the distance to the golf cup is based on receiving a request such as a user input for the application to obtain a distance to the golf cup.

Additionally in one aspect the method may automatically receive at a wireless device the golf course information. Automatic reception of the golf course information may be achieved by the system recognizing via GPS or another location determination mechanism that the wireless device is at or in the vicinity of a golf course that has been configured to implement the system of the present aspects. In addition the system may provide for automatic recognition of the movement of the wireless device about the golf course so that the system can provide distance to the cup and target information for any hole on the course without the need for user input.

In another optional aspect of the method receiving the golf course information may further include receiving golf course information that includes the golf cup geographic location for the plurality of golf cups on the golf course and thus obtaining a golf cup geographic location may further include obtaining the golf course location from the golf course information. In alternate optional aspects of the method obtaining the golf cup geographic location further comprises obtaining the golf cup geographic location by wirelessly communicating with a network device that stores current golf cup geographic location after the request for distance is initiated.

An additional optional aspect of the method provides for executing a Geographic Positioning System GPS based location determination mode such as Mobile Station MS Based mode Mobile Station MS Assisted mode and Standalone mode or a Differential Global Positioning System DGPS based location determination mode to obtain the wireless device geographic location. Furthermore the method may provide for executing a network based location determination mode such as Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFLT Enhanced Observed Time Difference E OTD or the like.

In certain aspects of the method obtaining a distance to the golf cup based on the wireless device geographic location and the golf cup geographic location further includes determining at the wireless device the distance to the golf cup based on the wireless device geographic location and the golf cup geographic location and in alternate aspects obtaining a distance to the golf cup further includes communicating with a wireless network device to obtain the distance to the cup.

In one optional aspect of the method presenting the distance on the wireless device further includes presenting the distance on an output mechanism chosen from the group of output mechanisms consisting of a display a speaker and a Personal Area Network PAN transceiver such as a Bluetooth transceiver.

In one specific alternate aspect of the method presenting the distance to the golf cup may include presenting a first display that includes at least distance to the golf cup and a golf course hole number associated with the golf cup and presenting a second display that includes at least an overview of a golf course hole layout associated with the golf cup and distance to the one or more predetermined golf course targets. In other aspects the method may include presenting additional displays of golf course information such as a golf course green overview that provides distance to the golf cup and in some aspects gradient markings for the green.

Additionally the method may include obtaining a geographic location of one or more predetermined golf course targets wherein the golf course targets are associated with the one of the plurality of golf cups. Golf course targets can include area markings for hazards such as water hazards bunkers and the like and area markings for the greens. The geographic location of the one or more predetermined golf course targets may be obtained from the golf course information and distance to the one predetermined golf course targets may be obtained based on the wireless device geographic location and the geographic location of the one or more predetermined golf course targets. Once the distance to any predetermined golf course target is obtained the distance may be presented on the wireless device.

In alternate aspects of the method additional information related to golf course impending golf shot and the environment may be obtained and presented to the user. For example the elevation gradient between the wireless device and the golf cup may be obtained and presented in conjunction with presentation of the distance to the golf cup. Additionally environmental conditions such as current temperature current wind speed current wind direction current humidity and the like may be obtained and presented on the wireless device.

In another optional aspect of the method a directional vector may be determined and displayed on the wireless device. The directional vector indicates the direction from the wireless device to the golf cup and as such is instrumental if the golfer does not currently have line of sight to the golf hole. Further the directional vector may be represented on the display in combination with additional target information such as trees bunkers water hazards etc. in order to assist the golfer in lining up the shot relative to other landmarks and or to inform or assist the golfer with respect to targets along the shot line represented by the directional vector.

In yet another alternate aspect of the method the obtained distance to the hole as well as alternate parameters such as elevation environmentals and the like may be communicated wirelessly to a remote assistance service such as a remote golfer professional service and in response receiving golf swing advice or a golf tip from the remote assistance service. Additionally the golfer may use the wireless device s video camera feature to capture video of the golfer s swing and communicate the golf video swing to the remote assistance service.

An alternate aspect is defined by at least one processor configured for determining golf cup distance on a golf course. The processor includes a first module for obtaining a wireless device geographic location and a golf cup geographic location related to one of a plurality of golf cups. The golf cup geographic location is determined based on occurrence of an automatic event such as a predetermined event or the like. The processor additionally includes a second module for obtaining a distance to the golf cup based on the wireless device geographic location and the golf cup geographic location and a third module for presenting the distance to the golf cup on the wireless device.

A computer program product that includes a computer readable medium provides for another alternate aspect. The medium includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to obtain a wireless device geographic location and a golf cup geographic location related to the one of the plurality of golf cups. The golf cup geographic location is determined based on occurrence of an automatic event such as a predetermined event or the like. The medium also includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to obtain a distance to the golf cup based on the wireless device geographic location and the golf cup geographic location and at least one instruction for causing a computer present the distance to the golf cup on the wireless device.

A wireless communication device defines a further related aspect. The device includes means for obtaining a wireless device geographic location and a golf cup geographic location related to one of a plurality of golf cups. The golf cup geographic location is determined based on occurrence of an automatic event such as a predetermined event or the like. The device also includes means for obtaining a distance to the golf cup based on the wireless device geographic location and the golf cup geographic location and means for presenting the distance to the golf cup on the wireless device.

A wireless device that includes a computer platform including at least one processor and a memory provides for another related aspect. The wireless device additionally includes a golf course distance measuring application that is stored in the memory and executable by the at least one processor. The application is operable to obtain a wireless device geographic location and a golf cup geographic location related to the one of the plurality of golf cups obtain a distance to the golf cup based on the wireless device geographic location and the golf cup geographic location and present the distance to the golf cup on the wireless device.

In accordance with the wireless device aspect the golf cup geographic location is determined based on occurrence of an automatic event such as a predetermined event or the like. In one aspect the event may be the sensing of motion in one of the plurality of golf cups associated with the golf cup. Alternatively the event may be the occurrence of a predetermined time of day for initiating the determination of the golf cup location such as a time of day that occurs after the movement of the golf cup on the golf course green. In another aspect the event may be receipt of a remote trigger which may prompt location determination at the golf cup to occur at substantially the same point in time as location determination at the wireless device.

In one aspect of the device the golf course distance measuring application is further operable to automatically obtain the wireless device geographic location and the golf cup geographic location and subsequently the distance to the golf cup based on initiation of golf course distance measuring application. In other aspects of the device the golf course distance measuring application is further operable to receive a request such as a user input for the application to obtain a distance to the golf cup prior to obtaining the wireless device geographic location and the golf cup geographic location.

Another aspect is defined by a method for obtaining current golf cup geographic location at a network server. The method includes receiving from a location determining entity an initial golf cup geographic location for a golf cup at a predetermined golf course and storing in network memory the initial golf cup geographic location as a current golf cup location. The method additionally includes receiving from the location determining entity an update to the initial golf cup geographic location based on an occurrence of an automatic event such as a predetermined event or the like and storing in memory the update to the golf cup geographic location as the current golf cup location.

In alternate aspects of the method the automatic event may include but is not limited to sensing a predetermined level of motion in at least one the golf cup occurrence of a predetermined time of day such as a set time preceding the movement of the golf cup to a new location on the golf course green and or receipt of a remote trigger that may prompt location determination at the golf cup and at the wireless device to occur at substantially the same point in time.

The method may additionally include communicating wirelessly upon request the current golf cup location to a wireless device. The golf cup location may be communicated to the wireless device in response to a request for information related to the golf course or in response to initiation of a golf cup distance request by the wireless device.

In one specific aspect of the method the location determining entity determines the initial golf cup location by executing a Mobile Station MS Assisted Global Positioning System GPS based location determination routine or a Differential Global Positioning System DGPS based location determination routine. In other aspects of the method the location determining entity determines the initial golf cup location by executing a network based routine such as Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFLT Enhanced Observed Time Difference E OTD or the like. In some aspects the location determining entity may be external and remote from the network server and in other aspects the location determining entity may be internal to the network server.

The method may further include receiving a current wireless device geographic location from a wireless device determining a distance to the golf cup based on the current wireless device geographic location and the current golf cup geographic location and communicating the distance to the cup to the wireless device.

In an alternate aspect the method may include receiving from a location determining entity geographic locations for one or more predetermined targets associated with the golf cup storing in the memory the geographic locations for the one or more predetermined targets and communicating wirelessly the geographic location of the targets to the wireless device. Alternatively the method may further include receiving a current wireless device geographic location from a wireless device determining a distance to the one or more predetermined targets based on the current wireless device geographic location and the geographic location of the one or more targets and communicating the distance to the one or more targets to the wireless device. Predetermined targets may include golf course greens water hazards bunkers and the like.

A related aspect is defined by at least one processor configured for obtaining current golf course cup geographic location at a network server. The processor includes a first module for receiving from a location determining entity an initial golf cup geographic location for a golf cup at a predetermined golf course and a second module for storing in network memory the initial golf cup geographic location as a current golf cup location. The processor additionally includes a third module for receiving from the location determining entity an update to the initial golf cup geographic location based on an occurrence of an automatic event such as a predetermined event or the like and a fourth module for storing in network memory the update to the golf cup geographic location as the current golf cup location.

A computer program product that includes a computer readable medium defines a further related aspect. The medium includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to receive from a location determining entity an initial golf cup geographic location for a golf cup at a predetermined golf course and at least one instruction for causing a computer to store in network memory the initial golf cup geographic location as a current golf cup location. The medium additionally includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to receive from the location determining entity an update to the initial golf cup geographic location based on an occurrence of an automatic event such as a predetermined event or the like and at least one instruction for causing a computer to store in memory the update to the golf cup geographic location as the current golf cup location.

Yet another related aspect is provided for by a network device. The device includes means for receiving from a location determining entity an initial golf cup geographic location for a golf cup at a predetermined golf course and means for storing in memory the initial golf cup geographic location as a current golf cup location. The device additionally includes means for receiving from the location determining entity an update to the initial golf cup geographic location based on an occurrence of an automatic event such as a predetermined event or the like and means for storing in memory the update to the golf cup geographic location as the current golf cup location.

A network device that includes a computer platform including at least one processor and a memory defines a further related aspect. The device additionally includes a golf course target location and distance application stored in the memory and executable by the at least one processor. The application is operable to receive from a location determining entity an initial golf cup geographic location for a golf cup at a predetermined golf course and store in network memory the initial golf cup geographic location as a current golf cup location. The application is additionally operable to receive from the location determining entity an update to the initial golf cup geographic location based on an occurrence of an automatic event such as a predetermined event or the like and store in memory the update to the golf cup geographic location as the current golf cup location.

In one or more alternate aspects the automatic event may be sensing a predetermined level of motion in the golf cups occurrence of a predetermined set time such as a set time that occurs after the movement of the golf cup on the golf course green and or receipt of a remote trigger at the golf cup or flagstick

The network device may further include a communications module operable to communicate wirelessly upon request the current golf cup location to a wireless device communicate the current golf cup location in response to a request for information related to the golf course and or communicate the current golf cup location in response to a request for the current golf cup location based on initiation of a golf cup distance request by the wireless device.

In an alternate aspect of the network device the location determining entity may be external to and remote from the network device or the location determining means may be included in the network device.

In a further alternate aspect the application may be operable to receive a wireless device position from the location determining entity or the wireless device determine a distance to the golf cup based on the current wireless device geographic location and the current golf cup geographic location and communicate the distance to the cup to the wireless device.

Yet another aspect is provided for by a system for determining the distance to a golf cup on a golf course. The system includes a plurality of asset tags. Each asset tag is located proximate a golf cup on a golf course. Each of the plurality of asset tags is operable to initiate the determination of a golf cup geographic location based on occurrence of an automatic event such as a predetermined event or the like.

The system additionally includes a network device that includes a golf course target location and distance application. The application is operable to receive from a location determining entity the golf cup geographic location store the golf cup geographic location as a current golf cup location receive from the location determining entity an update to the golf cup geographic location based on the occurrence of the event store in memory the update to the golf cup geographic location as the current golf cup location and communicate the current golf cup location.

The system additionally includes a wireless communication device that includes a golf course distance measuring application. The application is operable to wirelessly receive the current golf cup geographic location receive a request to obtain a distance to the golf cup obtain a wireless device geographic location based on the request obtain a distance to the golf cup based on the wireless device geographic location and the golf cup geographic location and present the distance to the golf cup on the wireless device.

Yet another aspect is defined by a method for determining a distance to a target. The method includes obtaining by a wireless device a wireless device geographic location and a target geographic location. The target comprises an asset tag and the target geographic location is determined automatically based on an occurrence of an event such as a predetermined event or the like. The method further includes obtaining by the wireless device a distance to the target based on the wireless device geographic location and the target geographic location and presenting the distance to the target on the wireless device. The event may be defined as sensing of a predetermined level of motion associated with the target as a predetermined time of day a remote trigger or the like.

A wireless device defines a further aspect. The wireless device includes a computer platform including at least one processor and a memory. The wireless device also includes a target distance measuring application stored in the memory and executable by the at least one processor. The application is operable to obtain a wireless device geographic location and a target geographic location to obtain a distance to the target based on the wireless device geographic location and the target geographic location and to present the distance to the target on the wireless device. The target comprises an asset tag and the target geographic location is determined automatically based on occurrence of an event such as a predetermined event or the like.

Thus present aspects provide for devices apparatus systems methods and computer program products for determining distances to golf cups and associated predetermined targets on a golf course using a wireless communication device such as a cellular telephone. Cellular telephone implementation allows for existing devices to be configured with the requisite application to provide the golf course distance measuring capabilities according to the present aspects. Present aspects provide for accurate and automated determination of the distance to the target such as a golf cup. Current aspects use a geographic location determination system such as GPS and or communication network solutions to determine the distance to the desired target and provide for automatic location position fixes to be performed when a target such as a golf cup is moved to a new location without requiring any human intervention. Additionally present aspects provide for golf course information such as course layout and the like to be communicated via a wireless network such as a cellular network to the wireless device. In this regard the golfer user may obtain golf course information at any point in time prior to or during a round of golf obviating the need to pre load golf course information via a wired connection to a communication network.

The present devices apparatus methods computer program products and processors now will be described in more detail hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which aspects of the invention are shown. The described aspects however may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. Broken lines in the figures indicate elements of aspects that are optional.

As used herein the word exemplary means serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects.

One or more aspects described herein are in connection with a wireless communication device. A wireless communication device can also be called a subscriber station a subscriber unit mobile station mobile remote station access point remote terminal access terminal user terminal user agent a user device a client or user equipment. A subscriber station may be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability or other processing device connected to a wireless modem.

Referring to depicted is a block diagram of a system for determining distance to predetermined targets such as targets on a golf course according to one aspect. The system includes a wireless device operated by a user such as a golfer and a plurality of asset tags each asset tag is affixed to or otherwise located proximate a predetermined target such as a golf course target.

The wireless device which as shown in may in one aspect comprise a cellular telephone includes a rangefinder application having associated rangefinder logic operable for determining the target distance to predetermined targets on the golf course such as golf cups and the like.

The system additionally includes a plurality of asset tags that are at a minimum located in close proximity and may be affixed to targets such as the golf cups on each golf hole of a golf course. The term asset tag is a generic term that applies to any small location device and in particular a location device capable of providing location tracking of the asset or in this instance the target to which it is associated. One such example of an asset tag is an in Geo asset tag available from QUALCOMM Incorporated of San Diego Calif. The tracking nature of asset tags provides for location of targets to be conducted automatically thus eliminating the need for human interaction in determining the location of a transitory golf course target such as a golf cup .

The proximity of the asset tag to the golf cup should be such that the location of the asset tag provides for an accurate determination of the distance between the golf cup and wireless device . In order to be located proximate the golf cup the asset tag may be affixed either permanently or removably to the golf cup the flagstick or the flag attached to the flagstick or the hole cutting device. For the purpose of the aspects herein described the flagstick includes the attached flag and therefore reference to an asset tag being affixed to a flagstick includes aspects in which the asset tag may be attached to the flag. As previously noted golf cups are re positioned on a golf green sometimes as frequently as on a daily basis and therefore the asset tag that is associated with the golf cup will be affixed to the golf cup flagstick or flag to accommodate the need to frequently obtain new geographic location data and to automate the overall process. Any other golf course targets that are viewed as transitory may also be affixed with an asset tag.

By affixing asset tags proximate the golf cup the flagstick or the flag attached to the flagstick or the hole cutting device present aspects are able to determine a distance to the golf cup as opposed to the distance to the green or the distance to the center of the green. Thus present aspects provide the golfer with one of the most desirable distances i.e. the distance to the golf cup and as discussed in detail infra provide such in a highly efficient manner.

Referring to a more detailed block diagram of a system for determining distance to predetermined targets such as golf cups also referred to as golf holes on a golf course is shown according to one aspect. The system includes a wireless device operated by a user such as a golfer a plurality of asset tags each tag proximate a predetermined target such as a golf cup on a golf course a position determining entity and network device such as a rangefinder server. In addition to a golfer the wireless device may be operated by a caddie another member of golf grouping a spectator or any one else located on a golf course that would benefit from having distance and or directional information.

The wireless device includes a golf course distance measuring application otherwise referred to herein as a rangefinder application . The application may be preloaded on a newly purchased wireless device or the application may be loaded to an existing device via wired or wirelessly downloading of the application from an appropriate service provider. The rangefinder application may include rangefinder logic that is operable to determine target distance such as distance from the device to a golf cup and or the distance from the device to other predetermined targets associated with the golf cup such as greens boundaries hazard boundaries such as bodies of water bunkers out of bounds boundaries and the like. The rangefinder logic may additionally be operable to determine other distances on the golf course such as the distance of previous golf shots or the like. In alternate aspects in which determination of the target distances is conducted at a network device such as rangefinder server or the like and subsequently communicated to the wireless device the need for the wireless device to include rangefinder logic may be obviated.

Target distance may be determined based on the geographic location of the wireless device and the geographic location of the target. As such the rangefinder application may include golf course information that includes target information including the current target geographic location . Golf course information may be automatically acquired wirelessly by the wireless device prior to the beginning of the golfer s round of golf. For example the system may provide for the wireless device to recognize via GPS or other location determining mechanisms that the device is positioned at or within the proximate vicinity of a golf course equipped for using the distance measuring application of the present aspects. Recognition that the wireless device is at or in the proximate vicinity of the golf course may trigger the rangefinder server to automatically communicate the golf course information without the need for user intervention or user input. Alternatively wireless device may accept inputs at any time that allow a user golfer to communicate with rangefinder server to obtain golf course information. In other alternate aspects the golf course information may be acquired by wireless device via a wired connection to a network device such as rangefinder server or the like.

Further the wireless device may acquire or update the golf course information at any point during a round of golf either automatically or upon receiving a user request. In some aspects the wireless device may be configured to automatically and wirelessly receive any updates during a round such as updates that affect target location such as movement of the golf cup on the green or the like. Wireless acquisition of the golf course information allows the golfer user to acquire golf course information on demand and or automatically such as at the first tee or during the round of golf. Additionally providing for the acquisition of golf course information either just prior to the round or during the round insures that the golf course information is current especially with respect to the location of transitory targets such as the golf cup or the like. In alternate aspects the target locations may be received by the rangefinder application separately from the golf course information . For example target locations may be wirelessly received based on the initiation of a target distance request at the wireless device .

Additionally the wireless device includes a position location application operable to determine the geographic position of the wireless device. The application may be a communication network based positioning system application such as an Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFLT positioning system and or a Global Positioning System GPS application and or a Differential GPS application. In any case application operates using any known mode of position location determining operation for example GPS based modes such as Mobile Station MS based mode MS assisted mode standalone mode or the like and or network based modes such as AFLT E OTD and the like Further details on geographic position location determination and some of the known operational modes are presented infra.

As noted in relation to the system additionally includes a plurality of asset tags that are at a minimum located in the proximity of golf cups on a golf hole of a golf course. The asset tags will include a wireless transceiver operable for receiving for example GPS satellite signals for location determination and communicating the satellite information to a network device such as Position Determining Entity PDE or the like via a wireless network such as the cellular network or the like for determination of a GPS based geographic location of the asset tag. Alternatively the wireless transceiver may be operable for sending timing signals to a network device such as PDE or the like via a wireless network such as the cellular network or the like for determination of a network based geographic location of the asset tag.

The asset tags will additionally include a battery operable for providing requisite power to the wireless transceiver and any other active components of the asset tag. In some aspects the asset tags may additionally include a battery sensor operable for detecting a predetermined low level of battery power in battery . Sensing of the low battery power level may trigger wireless communication with a network entity which in turn may notify a greens keeper or other golf course attendant that the tag requires recharging. Asset tags such as the in Geo asset tags benefit from a low duty cycle LDC and therefore offer an extended battery life. In this instance it is envisioned that asset tags may have a minimum battery life of a few or several months depending upon how many asset tag fixes occur during a day or any given time period. Recharging of the asset tags or any other maintenance to an asset tag may require the tag to be removed from the green area such as moving the asset tags to a facility for recharging. In those aspects in which determination of the golf cup location is initiated based on sensing of a predetermined level of motion in the golf cup the asset tags may be zoned for location determination within specified predetermined areas such as the area of the green only. Geofencing technology e.g. defining or identifying a predetermined geographic area included within the asset tags and or system allows system to designate the respective green as an area zone for location determination with respect to asset tags such that movement outside of the green will not result in a location determination.

The asset tag may optionally include a motion sensor such that when the asset tag is affixed to a transitory target such as a golf cup the motion sensor will sense movement of the golf cup. Movement of the cup signifies that the hole location is being changed and thus a new location determination is required for the golf cup. In one aspect the location of the golf cup may be determined based on the automatic occurrence of an event such as a predetermined event or the like. In one aspect the event may be defined as sensing a threshold level of motion movement either in terms of motion duration or rate of motion in the asset tag . In this regard the motion sensor may be implemented to sense the threshold level of motion in the asset tag to automatically trigger a location determination.

In other aspects the asset tag may optionally include a clock mechanism . As noted above in certain aspects the location of the golf cup may be determined based on the automatic occurrence of an event such as a predetermined event or the like. In one aspect the event may be a predetermined time of day. For example a time of day that occurs shortly after the groundskeeper has changed the hole location. In this instance the clock mechanism may be operable to set an alarm that triggers the automatic occurrence of a location determination based on the time at which the alarm is set.

In still other aspects the asset tag may optionally include a beacon signal detector operable to receive beacon timing signals sent from wireless device for the purpose of determining the distance between the asset tag and the wireless device . In certain aspects in which a network based location determination is implemented such as AFLT E OTD or the like the wireless device may transmit a beacon which is received by the asset tag. Based on the time at which the beacon signal is sent and received and the rate at which the signal is sent a PDE a rangefinder server or some other network device can determine the distance between the asset tag and the wireless device . In alternate aspects the beacon signal detector may be included in the wireless devices and the asset tags may communicate the requisite beacon signal.

In those aspects in which the asset tag determines distance using AFLT E OTD or some other network based location determination mode the determination may be implemented in conjunction with a GPS based location determination. In such aspects the network based location determination mode may be used to correct any error introduced by satellite positioning based on calculating the location of the golf cup at one time of day e.g. early morning and calculating the location of the golfer wireless device at another time of day e.g. possibly late afternoon . For example according to such aspects the GPS location of the golf cup may be determined in the morning and the GPS location of the wireless device and in some aspects the GPS location of the cup may be determined during the round of golf. Additionally in those aspects that implement a network based location distance determination mode the wireless device and golf cup locations distances may be determined during the round of golf to further increase the accuracy of the GPS based location determinations. In alternate aspects the network based location determination may serve as the only location distance determination mechanism supplanting the need to implement GPS based location determination.

In alternate aspects asset tags may be used to obtain the geographic location of permanent targets on a golf course such as green boundaries hazard boundaries such as bodies of water bunkers out of bounds and the like. Since these permanent targets remain stationary the asset tag needs to only be placed at the designated target area for the duration of the location determining process and then may be removed. Thus use of the asset tags in connection with determining the location of a stationary target may be a one time only process that does not require the asset tag to be continuously affixed to the target.

The system additionally includes a Position Determining Entity PDE which may be in wireless communication with the asset tags and the wireless device . PDE may be a single device or some combination of multiple devices capable of respectively determining the location position of the asset tags and or the location position of the wireless device and or that may be capable of providing location determining information to the wireless device . Additionally PDE is in wired or wireless communication with rangefinder server . Further it should be noted that PDE may be included in the same device as rangefinder server and or that the functionality of PDE and rangefinder server may be implemented across any combination of multiple devices. PDE is operable to determine the asset tag location which may be based on communication network based information and or satellite based information received by the asset tags and forwarded to the PDE and may further include other location determining information received from the asset tags . Once the PDE determines the asset tag location the PDE communicates with the rangefinder server either wirelessly or via a wired connection to forward the asset tag location which is subsequently stored as a target location at the rangefinder server along with corresponding golf course information

In some aspects PDE may additionally be configured to determine wireless device location which may be based on communication network based information and or satellite based satellite information received by the wireless device and forwarded to the PDE and may additionally include other location determining information forwarded from the wireless device . Alternatively the PDE may provide the wireless device with information that assists the wireless device in determining the wireless device geographic location.

The system may additionally include a network device such as a rangefinder server which is in wired or wireless communication with PDE and wireless communication with wireless device . The network device includes a golf course target location and distance module otherwise referred to as a rangefinder module that stores golf course information for one or more golf courses. The network device receives location information such as asset tag location i.e. target location or the like from the PDE . The rangefinder server may store the target location in an associated golf course information file and associated target information subfile. Additionally rangefinder server wirelessly communicates the target location in some aspects in conjunction with communication of associated golf course information to the wireless device either automatically based on a change in target location or as requested by the wireless device .

Referring to according to one aspect a more detailed block diagram representation of wireless communication device is depicted. The wireless communication device may include any type of computerized communication device such as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless communication device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The present apparatus and methods for determining on a wireless device distances to golf cups and predetermined targets on a golf course can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless communication device or wireless computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals desktop computers or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The wireless communication device includes computer platform that can transmit data across a wireless network and that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs and or modules such as rangefinder application stored in the memory of wireless device . API can be a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment can be Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by QUALCOMM Incorporated of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of wireless device and the operability of the wireless communication device on a wireless network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In one or more aspects in which the communication device is defined as a cellular telephone the communications processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc. all of which are not individually depicted in for the sake of clarity . For one or more of the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with the rangefinder application . For example processing subsystems may include location and tracking devices applications such as GPS applications devices AFLT applications devices such as a beacon signal detector environmental devices applications such as wind direction speed applications devices temperature applications devices humidity applications devices and the like that are implemented in conjunction with rangefinder application . Alternatively one or more of the processing subsystems may be configured as modules applications and or logic stored in memory .

The memory of computer platform includes a golf course distance measuring application otherwise referred to herein as a rangefinder application operable to obtain a distance to a golf cup and associated predetermined targets on a golf course and present the distances on the wireless device. The rangefinder application may include rangefinder logic that is operable to determine target distance such as distance to a golf cup and or the distance to other predetermined targets associated with the golf cup such as greens boundaries hazard boundaries such as bodies of water bunkers out of bounds boundaries and the like. The rangefinder logic may additionally be operable to determine other distances on the golf course such as the distance of previous golf shots or the like. In another aspect in which determination of the target distances is conducted at a network device such as rangefinder server or the like and subsequently communicated to the wireless device the need for the wireless device to include rangefinder logic may be obviated.

The golf course distance measuring application may be configured to automatically determine the distance to the golf cup and other predetermined golf course targets based on initiation launching of the application . In this regard the golfer user may not be required to make any inputs to the wireless device to receive distance to the golf cup and or distances to targets. The application may assume that the golfer is beginning play on the first hole and accordingly the application may provide distance information to the first golf cup and predetermined targets associated with the first hole. Alternatively if the golfer user starts on another hole the application provides for the user to scroll or otherwise move to the hole being played to obtain the distance to the hole being played and the associated target information.

Geofencing technology may be included within the rangefinder logic and or system to automatically determine that the golfer user has moved to the next hole on the golf course. Once the application has determined that the golfer user has moved to the next hole the application may automatically provide distance information to the next hole golf cup and predetermined targets associated with the next hole. Geofencing provides for a predetermined geographic area to be defined that corresponds to all and or portions of respective golf holes thereby allowing system to track movements by the golfer user on the respective course and automatically update information presented by the application to the golfer user. In this instance a geofence may define the area of each green such that when the wireless device in possession of the golfer user exits the green it triggers the application to automatically move to the next hole on the golf course and obtain information relating to the next hole such as the distance to the next hole golf cup and other predetermined next hole targets. Alternatively the application may be configured to allow for the golfer user to manually scroll or otherwise move the application to the next or any other hole on the course to obtain the distance to the next hole golf cup and other predetermined next hole targets.

In addition to automatically obtaining the distance to the golf cup and predetermined targets application may be configured to receive requests such as user inputs for distance determinations to the golf cup or other predetermined golf course targets. A request may take the form of a user input to a predetermined designated keypad or button or alternatively the golf course distance measuring application may be preconfigured to allow for voice commands to initiate a request.

Target distance may be determined based on the wireless device geographic location and the target geographic location . As such the rangefinder application may include golf course information that may include golf hole information that include target information including the current target geographic location . As previously noted golf course information can be acquired wirelessly by the wireless device prior to the beginning of the golfer s round of golf. Alternatively the wireless device may acquire or update the golf course information at any point during a round of golf. In one or more aspects the wireless device may be configured to automatically and wirelessly receive any updates during a round such as updates that affect target location such as movement of the golf cup on the green or the like. In another aspect the target locations may be received by the rangefinder application separately from the golf course information . For example target locations may be wirelessly received based on the initiation of a target distance request at the wireless device .

In another aspect the rangefinder logic of rangefinder application may be configured by determine wireless device location and target location at substantially the same point in time. Such configuration may be advantageous in accurately determining the distance to targets requiring a high degree of accuracy such as the golf cups. Determining the wireless device location and the target location at substantially the same point in time insures that any inaccuracies in the locations due to the position of the satellites or other environmental factors are substantially the same and thus offset each other in determining the target distance . Thus substantially the same point in time may be defined as any time period that results in substantially the same level of inaccuracy for the predicted golf cup location and the predicted wireless device location.

For example if satellite positioning imparts a 2 foot due north inaccuracy to the target location then it can be assumed that if the wireless device location is determined at substantially the same point in time a 2 foot due north inaccuracy would also be imparted to the wireless device location . In this instance the target distance remains unaffected and accurate since the inaccuracy imparted to both the target location and wireless device location are equivalent. Conversely if the target location is determined at one point in time such as early morning and the wireless device location is determined at another point in time such as late afternoon the inaccuracy imparted to each location determination may differ due to positioning of the satellites or other environmental factors. In such aspects it may not be required for target information and specifically target location to be communicated to the wireless device along with golf course information prior to the round of golf. At a minimum the golf course information that is communicated prior to the round of golf may not be required to include target locations for targets requiring a high degree of accuracy such as golf cups or the like because these target locations may be configured to be determined at the same point in time as wireless device location is determined.

In addition to determining target distance the rangefinder location may determine target elevation based on the geographic location of the target and the geographic location of the wireless device . Target elevation may be beneficial to the golfer in determining club selection shot approach and the like.

Additionally the wireless device includes a position location determination application operable to determine the wireless device geographic location . The application may be a communication network based position location application and or a Global Positioning System GPS application and or a Differential GPS application that operates using any known or future position location determination mode of operation such as a GPS based mode for example Mobile Station MS based mode MS assisted mode standalone mode or the like and or a network based mode such as Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFLT mode. Other location determination modes may also be implemented and include but are not limited to modes such as cell identification enhanced cell identification time of arrival angle of arrival enhanced observed time difference E OTD cell broadcast and cell based position.

For example in one aspect the location determination application may implement the GPS MS based mode of location determination. The MS based mode is characterized in that calculation of the device location occurs at the wireless device using a location determination function. While MS based mode may utilize PDE assistance information such as ephemeris data and or almanac data to assist in obtaining GPS signals each location determination attempt may not necessarily include communication with the PDE if the PDE assistance information is current enough to determine location. For example in one aspect during the very first MS based mode attempt the location determination application will download ephemeris data and almanac data. It should be noted however that this information might be acquired in other manners. Thereafter location determination application may perform an ephemeris check to look at the almanac data to see if there are any satellites recently risen and will request new or updated ephemeris data if necessary based on the number of satellites in view for which it already has fresh ephemeris data. For example depending on the size of the satellite network an ephemeris check may result in a request to update PDE assistance information occurring every 30 to 90 minutes. When the wireless device updates the PDE assistance information then the wireless device communicates through a communication link via the wireless network with the PDE to obtain current ephemeris data and or almanac data. Once the wireless device has verified or obtained PDE assistance information the wireless device uses the PDE assistance information to set the parameters for receiving the GPS signals and subsequently receives the timing signals broadcasted from the GPS satellites. Once the GPS signals are received the wireless device decodes the signals using the PDE assistance information to aid in setting the decode parameters. The wireless device then uses the decoded timing information and executes a location determination function to determine device location .

More specifically the location determination application that utilizes MS based mode may implement the gpsOne solution commercially available from QUALCOMM Incorporated of San Diego Calif. In the gpsOne mode the wireless device does not directly utilize CDMA pilot phase measurements PPM in positioning calculations. However the gpsOne MS based mode is able to utilize some local network parameters to enhance satellite acquisition times and device sensitivity enabling enhanced time to fix and availability versus typical standalone GPS solutions.

For example in one aspect the location determination application may implement the GPS MS assisted mode of location determination. MS Assisted mode location determination is characterized in that calculation of the wireless device location occurs at the PDE and as such communication with the PDE occurs for each location determination attempt that uses MS Assisted mode. If the wireless device chooses to update the PDE assistance information the wireless device communicates through the wireless network with the PDE to obtain current ephemeris data and or almanac data. Once the wireless device has verified or obtained PDE assistance information the wireless device uses the PDE assistance information to set the parameters for receiving the GPS signals and subsequently receives the timing signals broadcasted from the GPS satellites. Once the GPS signals are received the wireless device decodes the signals using the PDE assistance information to aid in setting the decode parameters. The wireless device uses the decoded timing information to make measurements related to the distance from the GPS satellites and the wireless device communicates the measurement information to the PDE . The PDE uses the measurement information and executes a location determining function to determine the wireless device location . Thus for MS Assisted mode a wireless network signal or communication link is utilized as the MS Assisted mode performs communication with the PDE .

More specifically the location determination application that utilizes MS assisted mode may implement the gpsOne solution. The gpsOne solution uses the wireless device to collect satellite data as well as CDMA pilot phase measurements PPM . This information is used by the PDE to calculate the location of the wireless device . In one aspect the wireless device operates to act as a sensor to enable position calculation on the PDE . In turn the PDE provides both sensitivity and acquisition assistance information that greatly enhances GPS sensitivity system availability terrain coverage and accuracy as well as performing the positioning calculations to provide a location also referred to as a fix. By utilizing PDE assistance information the MS Assisted mode solution provides the highest level of GPS sensitivity and accuracy while essentially eliminating cold start time. The concurrent use of CDMA based pilot information enables deep indoor location capability in addition to enhancing AGPS performance.

In another example in some aspects the location determination application may implement the GPS standalone mode of location determination. Standalone mode is characterized in that calculation of the device location occurs at the wireless device and without communication with PDE . However standalone mode is generally the most processing intensive location determination mode as compared to the MS based MS assisted and network based modes and thus the Standalone mode utilizes the most battery power. The standalone GPS mode of operation may be utilized when the wireless device is out of cellular coverage when the wireless device does not have access to a PDE or when minimizing data transactions is desired. In standalone mode the wireless device receives timing signals broadcasted from GPS satellites. The wireless device uses the timing signals and executes a position determining function to determine wireless device location .

In yet another example in some aspects the location determination application may implement the network based AFLT mode of location determination. AFLT is a wireless device based location determination technology that uses a time difference of arrival technique to determine location. In regards to present aspects the wireless devices may be configured to send a beacon signal and the asset tag configured to receive the signal or vice versa. Based on the time that the beacon signal was sent the time at which it was received and the rate speed at which the beacon signal is communicated the distance between the wireless device and the asset tag can be determined. The distance determination can be accomplished at the rangefinder server the PDE and or at the wireless device. As previously noted in some aspects a network based location determination mode may be used in conjunction with a GPS based location determination mode for the purpose of further increasing the accuracy of the location determination. In other aspects the network based location determination may serve as the sole location distance determination mechanism.

In addition to determining the distance to golf cups and other predetermined golf course targets the golf course distance measuring application specifically rangefinder logic may be operable to determine other distances on the golf course such as the distance of previous golf shots or the like and present these distances to the golfer user via output mechanisms on the wireless device . For example in one aspect the golfer user may provide an input to the device that instructs the application to store the current geographic location of the wireless device which corresponds with the current location of the golf ball or the location from which a golf shot was just taken. As the wireless device in possession of the golfer user moves to the next shot location the rangefinder logic may determine the distance from the previous shot based on the stored geographic location and the current geographic location of the wireless device. In some aspects the application may be capable of automatically determining and presenting dynamic information as to the distance from the previous golf shot. For example the distance from the previous shot may be updated based on a new location determination provided for by the wireless device. In other aspects the distance from the previous golf shot may be obtained by receiving a user input which triggers the application to obtain a current geographic location determination and to determine the distance from the previous golf shot based on the current geographic location of the wireless device and the stored geographic location of the wireless device associated with the previous golf shot. Additionally the application may be configured to store the distance of all golf shots made during a round of golf and automatically or at the user s request determine average driver distance or the like for the round of golf.

The rangefinder application may optionally include directional vector logic operable determine direction to a target directional vector based on the target location and the wireless device location . In many instances on a golf course a golfer may be presented with a blind shot that does not provide the golfer with a line of sight to the intended target such as the golf cup or the like. The golfer will be required to move to another location in order to obtain a line of sight to the intended target. This is a time consuming process that results in slower overall play on the golf course. In order to overcome the need to move about the course to obtain a line of sight a directional vector i.e. direction to the target is determined and presented on an output mechanism such as a device display. The golfer uses the displayed directional vector to line up the direction of the ensuing shot. In one aspect the directional vector may be displayed in conjunction with an overview of the current hole being played or the directional aspect may be displayed in a compass style format. which will be discussed in detail infra provides an example of a display that includes directional vector .

The rangefinder application may optionally include a remote assistance application that is operable to communicate the determined target distance to a remote assistant such as a remote golf professional not shown in which may respond with a golf tip . For example golf tip or assistance may include but is not limited to a tip on club selection shot approach shot stance grip advice swing advice or the like. The remote assistant may have access to the golf course information to assess the current shot that the golfer is facing. In addition to the target distance the golfer may communicate other golfer and or golf shot information to the remote assistant such as description of the current lie and or a video or series of photos of the golfer s swing. The description of the current lie may be sent by the golfer via SMS or any other communication mechanism. The golfer s swing video or series of photos may be captured with a camera internal to the wireless device and as such may be taken just prior to the request for assistance and sent to the remote assistant in conjunction with the target distance or alternatively the golfer s swing video or series of photos may be sent to the remote assistant prior to the round of golf.

The rangefinder application of wireless device may additionally optionally include an environmental parameter module operable for determining one or more environmental parameters at the point in time that the target distance is obtained or at some previous point of time and presenting the environmental parameter s to the golfer user in conjunction with the target distance . The environmental parameter module may include but is not limited to a wind velocity application operable for determining current wind velocity a wind direction application operable for determining a current wind direction a humidity application operable for determining current humidity and a temperature application operable for determining a current temperature. Environmental parameters may also be of benefit to the golfer user in determining an approach club selection and the like for the impending golf shot as such environmental parameters may affect the flight characteristics and or distance traveled by a golf ball.

In additional optional aspects the rangefinder application may provide for capturing and storing the golfer users golf score for a given round. In such aspects a user interface will be designated such as a keypad or the like for inputting the golfer score after a hole at the end of a round or at any point in time. The score that is inputted may be the raw score or the adjusted score that reflects the golfer s handicap and for example further taking into account the equitable score control table to remove the effect of abnormally high individual hole scores by establishing a maximum score per hole based on the golfer s handicap. Further the rangefinder application may be operable to retrieve golf course information including the respective golf course slope rating and the golf course rating which may depend on the tees being utilized and compare the golf course information to the golfer s handicap index in order to determine the respective golf course handicap for the golfer.

In certain instances the rangefinder application may be configured to logically convert the golfer s raw score to the golfer s adjusted score. After the hole score or overall round score has been inputted the rangefinder application may be configured to wirelessly communicate the raw or adjusted score to the network device or any other networked device that maintains a golfer user profile that includes the golfer s handicap index. In some aspects the network device may be operable to convert the raw scores to adjusted scores for the sake of maintaining the golfer s index. Communicating the raw or adjusted score to the network device may occur automatically such as after the round is completed or the application may be configured to communicate the score based on a designated user input. Additionally the golfer user may communicate the raw or adjusted score to one or more additional wireless devices such as wireless devices associated with friends or golf associates. In this regard the rangefinder application may implement or provide access to a buddy list stored in wireless device memory such that the application may receive from the golfer user a designated input selecting one or more recipients from the buddy list an option to communicate the score and communicating the score wirelessly such as via SMS or the like to the selected recipients. Additionally the buddy list concept may be used to wirelessly inform individuals of a scheduled impending round of golf for the purpose of forming a foursome or other golf grouping.

Wireless communication device may additionally include communication module that is operable for receiving satellite signals and communicating wirelessly with PDE and rangefinder server . In this regard communications module may be triggered to receive golf course information and target locations from rangefinder server and initiate wireless device location determination either automatically or in response to a golfer user input for obtaining a target distance .

Additionally wireless communication device may include input mechanism for generating inputs into communication device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the communication device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects the input mechanisms provide for a user input to initiate the determination of target distance the user input may be a designated keystroke on a keypad a designated button on the device a voice command inputted into a microphone or the like. Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism a Personal Area Network PAN transceiver etc. In the illustrated aspects the output mechanism may include a display operable to display the distance to target information and other related golf course information a speaker operable to audibly present the distance to target information and other related golf course information or a PAN transceiver operable to audibly present via an associated headset microphone such as a Bluetooth headset or the like the distance to target information and other related golf course information .

The rangefinder server includes computer platform that can transmit and receive data across wired and wireless networks and that can execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes a memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. Further computer platform also includes a processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor may include various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of network device and the operability of the network device on a wired or wireless network.

The computer platform further includes a communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of rangefinder server as well as between the server and wireless communication device and the server and an external PDE as shown in . The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless communication connection. According to one or more of the described aspects the communication module may include a communication receiver operable to receive target locations i.e. asset tag locations from an external PDE . In those aspects in which the rangefinder server includes an internal PDE the communication receiver may be configured to receive location determining information communicated from the asset tags and or the wireless device . Additionally in those aspects in which the rangefinder server includes rangefinder logic the communication receiver may be configured to receive wireless device location communicated from the wireless device and or the external PDE . Additionally the communication receiver may be operable to receive a golf course information request communicated from a wireless device 

The communications module may additionally include a communication transmitter operable to communicate golf course information and or separate target locations to the wireless device . In some alternate aspects in which the rangefinder application is configured to determine the target distance the communication transmitter may communicate the target distances to the wireless device .

The memory of rangefinder server also includes golf course target location and distance module otherwise referred to as a rangefinder module . The rangefinder module includes a plurality of golf course information files and or data that correspond to the golf courses that support the range finding application of the presently described aspects. Golf course information files may be preloaded in the rangefinder module or added to the module as additional golf courses initiate support of the range finder application. Golf course information files may include a golf course identifier ID such as a name code number etc. operable to identify a respective set of golf course information. Furthermore optionally golf course information may include information relating to golf course location such as a geographic point and or area corresponding to the physical location of the respective golf course address information etc. Further golf course information includes golf hole information files for the holes nine eighteen or the like associated with the golf course. The hole information files may include target information files that include information related to the targets for a specific hole such as the target location . Targets may include but are not limited to the golf cup hole greens hazards such as water hazards bunkers trees out of bounds and the like. Locations of such targets may be defined by an exact location such as for the golf cup a tree and the like or locations may be defined in terms of area boundaries front back left side right side etc. such as for greens water hazards bunkers out of bounds and the like. For stationary or non mobile targets such as greens hazards and the like the golf course information files may include target locations that are static and do not change over time. For transitory targets such as golf cups holes and the like the golf course information files may be frequently updated with new target locations . The new target locations for transitory targets will be received from internal or external PDE which determines asset tag locations associated with the transitory target.

In some aspects the rangefinder module of rangefinder server may optionally include rangefinder logic operable for determining target distance based on target location and wireless device location . Rangefinder logic may be included in the rangefinder server in lieu of the rangefinder logic being included in the wireless device or the rangefinder logic may be included in the rangefinder server as a back up option to the rangefinder logic included on wireless device .

Optionally in some aspects rangefinder module may include coursefinder logic operable to identify a respective one of the golf course information to forward to a requester including but not limited to wireless device executing rangefinder application . In some aspects coursefinder logic is operable to determine a desired one of the golf course information based on matching a received golf course information request having a desired golf course identification with the corresponding golf course ID and or the corresponding golf course location . Desired golf course identification may include a name a number an address and or any other information usable to identify a golf course. In another aspect coursefinder logic is operable to determine a desired one of the golf course information based on matching a received golf course information request having a wireless device location with the corresponding golf course location . For example upon launching rangefinder application on wireless device the rangefinder application such as via rangefinder logic may automatically obtain wireless device location for inclusion within an automatically generated golf course information request . Upon receipt coursefinder logic may then search the plurality of golf course information until a golf course is found having golf course location matching with or within a predetermined vicinity of wireless device location . In any case upon selecting golf course information based on received golf course information request coursefinder logic is operable to initiate forwarding the respective golf course information to the respective requester.

Additionally in some aspects PDE may optionally be internally included in rangefinder server . The PDE includes a position location application operable to determine asset tag location and or wireless device location . In those aspects in which rangefinder server includes PDE rangefinder server may additionally be in wireless communication with asset tags . As such the PDE is operable to determine the asset tag location which may be based on satellite information received by the asset tags and forwarded to the PDE and other location determining information such as timing information received from the asset tags . In some aspects such as aspects that implement GPS MS assisted mode location determination the internal PDE may additionally be configured to determine wireless device location which may be based on satellite information received by the wireless device and forwarded to the PDE and any other location determining information forwarded from the wireless device . Alternatively such as in those aspects that implement GPS MS based mode location determination the internal PDE may provide the wireless device with information that assists the wireless device in determining the wireless device geographic location.

In the illustrated example of the first mode presentation is displayed on an external display of wireless device . As shown wireless device may comprise a cellular telephone and in particular a flip type cellular telephone. The flip style cellular telephone includes an external display that may be operable for displaying the first mode presentation . The external display of a flip style cellular telephone may be smaller than the internal display and therefore less data can be presented on the external display.

Additionally in the illustrated example of the distance to the pin and the distance from the last shot are provided for in terms of yards as a unit of measurement. However the application may be configurable to allow for the distance information to be presented in any desirable unit of measurement for example yards feet inches meters centimeters or the like.

Referring to another example of a display of golf course distance information presented on a wireless device is depicted according to another aspect. The illustrated display shows a golf green presentation mode that depicts a golf green overview of the current golf green being played. As previously noted the application may include geofencing technology or any other mechanism that allows for predetermined geographic areas to be zoned for predetermined purposes. As previously noted the golf green may be geofenced or zoned to indicate when a wireless device in possession of a golfer departs a green to begin the next hole. Such indication may be used by the application to allow the application to move to the next hole in terms of obtaining and presenting distances to the next golf cup and distances to predetermined targets on the next golf hole. In other aspects geofencing or zoning may be used to indicate when the wireless device in possession of the golfer user enters the golf green or the area surrounding the green so as to provide for the display of the golf green presentation mode . Alternatively the application may be configured to provide for user inputs to request the display of the golf green presentation mode .

In addition to the golf green overview the golf green presentation mode may include a golf cup icon that indicates the approximate location of the golf cup on the golf green a golf ball icon that indicates the current approximate location of the golfer s golf ball on the green based on positioning the wireless device directly over the golf ball location and indicates the distance to the cup indicated as 26 feet 6 inches 26 6 . As previously noted the application may be configurable in terms of the units of measurement that are displayed. In certain aspects the application may provide for geographic location determination and thus distance determination that may be accurate for foot or inch increment unit measurements. In certain aspects asset tags may be limited in terms of accuracy and therefore the exact location of the golf cup on the golf green may have a certain level of inaccuracy. The golf green presentation mode may depict the level of accuracy in terms of an illustration and or a number representing the level of accuracy for the displayed golf cup location. In the circle surrounding the reported golf cup location indicates the level of confidence that the golf cup is actually located at the location as displayed. Thus in this instance the bigger the circle the higher the level of certainty that the location of the golf cup is inside the circle . It should be noted that the accuracy of the golf cup may vary from hole to hole and therefore the circle or any other marking designator may vary as well. In other aspects the golf green presentation mode may display a number in terms of a percentage for the accuracy or inaccuracy of the current golf cup location or any other markings depictions may used to indicate the accuracy of the golf cup location.

Additionally the golf green presentation mode may include other monuments or predetermined hazards targets surrounding the golf green such as bunker or the like. In this regard the golf green presentation mode may be presented on the device either automatically or at the request of the golfer user anywhere on the golf course such as if the golfer user is in the fairway adjacent to the green or in or near a hazard target that is proximate to the green. Moreover the golf green presentation mode may include additional golf course information such as the hole number and the golf course name indicated in the illustrated aspect as Hole 8 Torrey Pines South. Additionally the golf green presentation mode may include gradient markings such as shading directional arrows symbols or any other marking on the golf green overview to indicate the gradient or slope of the green. Gradient markings are beneficial to the golfer user in reading the green for an impending approach shot chip and or putt.

Turning attention to an example is provided of the geo fencing concept in relation to a golf course green according to another aspect. The golf course green is illustrated in as the shaded region. The rangefinder application on the wireless device not shown in and or the rangefinder module on the network server not shown in may define a first geo fence that encompasses the golf course green and a predetermined region surrounding the golf course green. While the predetermined region is depicted in as lying only a short distance from the golf course green the predetermined distance is configurable and may extended well beyond the green to any area. The first geo fence may be operable to define the region in which the rangefinder application will switch from providing a golf course hole overview presentation e.g. of to a golf hole green presentation e.g. of . For example if the wireless device is outside of the boundaries of first geo fence the wireless device may be provided a golf course hole overview presentation and if the wireless device is inside the boundaries of first geo fence the wireless device may be provided a golf hole green presentation .

The rangefinder application may further define a second geo fence that encompasses an area just inside the perimeter of the golf hole green . The second geo fence may be operable to define an area in which movement of the golf cup within the geo fenced area triggers a location determination and movement outside of the geo fenced area does not trigger a location determination. As such if the golf cup is moved to a new location on the green a new location determination will occur. However if the golf cup is moved outside of the green or outside of the prescribed minimum distance from green edge limit for making a hole no location determination will occur. For example if the golf cup is moved outside of the green for the purpose of re charging the asset tag battery no location determination will occur.

Additionally the placement of golf cup holes is generally limited to being within a prescribed distance from the edge of the golf hole green. For example many golf courses dictate that the hole be at least 6 to 7 feet from the edge of the green. Thus if the system returns a golf cup location that is outside of the prescribed limits for golf cup placement it can be assumed that the location is inaccurate. In this regard second geo fence may be operable to define an error correction factor such that golf cup locations that are predicted to be outside of the second geo fence may be adjusted a prescribed distance. The prescribed distance may be the shortest distance from the predicted golf cup location to the perimeter of the second geo fence. For example in if the golf cup is predicted to be outside of the second geo fence the predicted location can be adjusted moved to the closest position on the perimeter X of the second geo fence to reduce the inaccuracy of the location determination. In other aspects in which the direction of the inaccuracy can be assessed the prescribed distance may be some other point along the perimeter of the second geo fence .

As previous noted in determining the distance from the golfer wireless device to the golf cup or any other golf course target accuracy of the distance is a paramount concern. Therefore in certain aspects location determination methods may be employed that emphasize the accuracy of the location. For example in one aspect increasing the Quality of Service QoS of the location determination provides for a more accurate location determination. In most instances increasing QoS results in a deeper or otherwise longer period of time for a fix to be returned. Therefore increasing the QoS may be more applicable to stationary targets such as the golf cup or other golf course targets as opposed to the wireless device which may non stationary during the location determination process. In other aspects multiple fixes may be taken within a predetermined period of time for a wireless device and or a golf course target and data smoothing performed of the resulting location determinations to result in a more accurate location determination. Various filtering mechanisms such as Kalman filtering or the like may be employed to provide the necessary data smoothing.

Referring to a block diagram depicts the network architecture for location determination of asset tags in accordance with one example of the present aspects. The asset tags may support an over the air protocol that leverages Short Message Service SMS and Code Division Multiple Access CDMA packet data services although other messaging and packet data protocols may be utilized. The asset tags are configured to receive location position determining signals from one or more positioning entities such as communication network based entities and or a plurality of location determining satellites such as GPS satellites or the like. In one aspect for example the asset tags wirelessly transmit the satellite signals or network based signals the asset tag identifier and other location determining related information to Radio Access Network RAN . The RAN is in wired communication with the carrier core network which includes multiple servers and load balancing capabilities. The carrier core network transmits the location determining information to the position determining entity PDE which is operable to determine the location of the asset tag. The PDE is in communication with the rangefinder server which receives the locations of the asset tags correlates the asset tag locations to target locations and stores the target locations in associated golf course information files.

Referring to a block diagram representation of a cellular network is depicted according to one aspect. Wireless device may utilize the cellular network to communicate with rangefinder server and optionally PDE . A wireless network may comprise a cellular network and as such may be implemented to communicate golf course information including target locations to the wireless device . Referring to in one aspect wireless device such as a cellular telephone is configured to communicate via the cellular network . The cellular network provides wireless communication device the capability to communicate and receive location determining information to the PDE and receive golf course information including target locations from the rangefinder server . The cellular telephone network may include wireless network connected to a wired network via a carrier network . is a representative diagram that more fully illustrates the components of a wireless communication network and the interrelation of the elements of one aspect of the present system. Cellular telephone network is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as wireless communication device communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers.

In network rangefinder server can be in communication over a wired network e.g. a local area network LAN . Further a storage device which stores golf course information files may be in communication with rangefinder server via the wired network . Additionally PDE which determines location of asset tags and optionally the wireless device may be in communication with the rangefinder server and or storage device via the wired network . Rangefinder server may communicate to wireless device the golf course information files including target locations and receive target location data from and PDE . Rangefinder server storage device and PDE may be present on the cellular telephone network with any other network components that are needed to provide cellular telecommunication services. Rangefinder server storage device and PDE communicate with carrier network through a data links and which may be data links such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . In network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless communication devices and by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for determining a distance to a golf cup on a golf course according to one aspect. At optional Event a wireless device receives golf course information associated with a golf course distance measuring application that is executable on the wireless device. The golf course information may include the geographic location of the plurality of golf cups located on the golf course. Wireless receipt of the golf course information allows the golfer user to obtain such information without requiring the downloading of such information via a wired connection. In this regard the golfer user may receive the golf course information just prior to the round of golf for example while on route to the golf course or while standing on the first tee box. As previously noted one or more of the present aspects may provide for the golf course information to be automatically received i.e. downloaded by the wireless device when the device is in the vicinity of a golf course that is configured for golf course target distance measuring in accordance with present aspects. The wireless device may implement a location determination mechanism such as GPS AFLT or the like to determine the device s location which in turn is communicated wirelessly to the rangefinder server which recognizes the location as being within a geofenced or predetermined zoned area of a golf course thus triggering automatic communication of the golf course information.

At optional Event the golf course distance measuring application is initiated on the wireless device. Initiating of the golf course measuring application may coincide with the start of a round of golf. Initiation of the golf course measuring application may provide for predetermined keypad or button input functions to be replaced with predetermined golf course distance measuring application functions.

At Event wireless device geographic location and golf cup geographic location are obtained. The determination of the golf cup location is automatic based one the occurrence of an event such as a predetermined event or the like. An example of an event that automatically triggers location determination includes sensing a predetermined level of motion in the golf cup such as when the golf cup is moved to a new location on the green. In one specific aspect asset tags may be located proximate the golf cup such as affixed to the golf cup the flagstick or the flag attached to the flagstick and the asset tag includes motion sensors capable of initiating the location determination process based on sensing a predetermined level of motion. Another example of an event that automatically triggers location determination includes the occurrence of a predetermined set time. For example one or more set times may be times subsequent to a scheduled time for moving the golf cup on a golf course green.

In yet another example of an event that triggers location determination a remote trigger may be received by the asset tag associated with the golf cup. For example a remote trigger may be sent from the wireless device that results in golf cup location determination and wireless device location determination occurring at substantially the same point in time. Substantially the same point in time may include any time range that results in the predicted golf cup location and the predicted wireless device location having substantially the same level of inaccuracy. In those aspects in which the event is a remote trigger the location determination that results from the remote trigger may be used in conjunction with another location determination associated with another event such as sensing a predetermined level of motion time of day or the like. In such aspects the location determination that results from the remote trigger is used to increase the accuracy of other location determination. As previously noted the golf course distance measuring application may use the previously downloaded golf course information to obtain the location of the golf cup or other golf course targets. Alternatively initiation of the request to obtain the distance to the cup may provide for wirelessly communicating with a network device such as a rangefinder server that stores current golf cup geographic location.

Obtaining the wireless device geographic location may provide for executing any known or future known method for location determination. Examples of known GPS based methods include but are not limited to a Mobile Station MS Based mode Mobile Station MS Assisted mode and Standalone mode a Differential Global Positioning System DGPS based location determination mode or the like. Examples of known network based methods include but are limited to AFLT E OTD and the like.

Obtaining a wireless device geographic location and a golf cup geographic location may optionally additionally include obtaining the geographic location to one or more predetermined golf course targets associated with the golf cup. Examples of predetermined golf course targets include green boundaries hazard boundaries such as water hazard boundaries bunker boundaries out of bounds markings and the like. Geographic locations of the predetermined golf course targets may be obtained from the golf course information or alternatively the location of the predetermined golf course targets may be obtained by wirelessly communicating with a network device such as a rangefinder server that stores the location of the predetermined golf course targets.

At Event a distance to the golf cup is obtained based on the wireless device geographic position and the golf cup geographic position. In one aspect obtaining the distance to the golf cup may include determining at the wireless device the distance to the golf cup based on the wireless device geographic location and the golf cup geographic location. Alternatively in another aspect obtaining the distance to the cup may include communicating with a wireless network device such as a rangefinder server or the like to obtain the distance to the cup based on the wireless device geographic location and the golf cup geographic location. Optionally in the aspects in which locations of predetermined golf course targets are obtained the method may include obtaining the distance to the one or more predetermined golf course targets based on the wireless device geographic location and the geographic location of the one more predetermined golf course targets.

At Event the distance to the golf cup is presented on the wireless device. Presentation of the distance may include presenting the distance on an output mechanism such as a display a speaker and or a Personal Area Network PAN transceiver associated with a PAN headset such as a Bluetooth headset or the like. Additionally in those aspects in which distance to the predetermined golf course targets is determined presentation may additionally include presentation of the distance to the one or more predetermined golf course targets. In one specific aspect presentation may include a first display that includes at least distance to the golf cup and a golf course hole number associated with the golf cup and or a second display that includes at least an overview of a golf course hole layout associated with the golf cup and distance to the one or more predetermined golf course targets.

Additionally the method described in may optionally include obtaining an elevation gradient based on the wireless device geographic location and the golf cup geographic location and presenting the elevation gradient on the wireless device. Similarly the method may optionally include obtaining environmental parameters associated with current environmental conditions and presenting the environmental parameters on the wireless device in conjunction with presentation of the distance to the cup. The environmental conditions may include but are not limited to wind direction wind speed humidity temperature and the like.

In another alternate aspect of the method described in relation to the method may optionally include determining a directional vector based on the wireless device geographic location and the golf cup geographic location and displaying the directional vector on the wireless device. Another alternate option includes communicating the distance to the golf cup to a remote assistance service and receiving a golf swing advice communication i.e. a golf tip from the remote assistance service.

Referring to a flow diagram is depicted of a method for obtaining the current location of a golf cup hole on a golf course according to one aspect. At Event an initial golf cup geographic location for a golf cup hole at a predetermined golf course is received from a location determining entity. In some aspects the geographic location of the golf cup may be determined at the location determining entity based on satellite signals or wireless network signals received and forwarded from an asset tag associated with the golf cup. The location determining entity may use any known or future known method for location determination. Examples of known GPS based methods include but are not limited to a location determination mode such as Mobile Station MS Based mode Mobile Station MS Assisted mode and Standalone mode a Differential Global Positioning System DGPS based location determination mode or the like. Examples of known network based methods include but are not limited to AFLT E OTD or the like. Additionally the method may optionally receive from the location determining entity geographic locations for one or more predetermined targets associated with the golf cup.

At Event the initial golf cup geographic location is stored in network memory as the current golf cup location. In some aspects the golf cup location may be stored in an associated golf course information file. In those aspects in which geographic location to one or more predetermined targets are received the locations of the targets are stored in network memory.

At Event an update to the initial golf cup geographic location is received from the location determining entity based on the occurrence of an automatic event such as a predetermined event or the like. In some aspects the automatic event that initiates determination of the golf cup location is sensing of a predetermined level of motion in the golf cup. In one specific aspect asset tags are located proximate the golf cup such as affixed to the golf cup the flagstick or the flag attached to the flagstick and the asset tag includes motion sensors capable initiating the location determination process based on sensing a predetermined level of motion.

Another example of an automatic event includes the occurrence of a predetermined time of day. The time of day coinciding with a time that follows a scheduled time for moving the golf cup to a different location on a golf course green.

In yet a further aspect the event may include receipt of a remote trigger by an asset tag associated with the golf cup. The remote trigger may be initiated by a user input to an input mechanism on the wireless device. In one aspect the remote trigger initiates location determination at the asset tag at substantially the same point in time in which a wireless device location determination is performed. By performing the golf cup location determination and the wireless device location determination at substantially the same point in time inaccuracies related to the positioning of satellites are generally equivalent in degree for both location determinations.

At Event the updated to the golf cup geographic location is stored in network memory as the current golf cup location.

At optional Event the current golf cup geographic location is wirelessly communicated to a wireless device. The current golf course location is communicated in conjunction with a request for communication of the golf course information file which may additionally include the locations of the one of more predetermined targets associated with the golf cup. Alternatively the current golf course location may be communicated separately in response to a request to initiate golf cup distance determination to insure that the wireless device has current golf cup location data.

In an alternate aspect of the method as described by the method may optionally include receiving a current wireless device geographic location from a wireless device determining a distance to the golf cup based on the current wireless device geographic location and the current golf cup geographic location and communicating the distance to the cup to the wireless device. An additional alternate aspect may provide for optionally receiving a current wireless device geographic location from a wireless device determining a distance to the one or more predetermined targets based on the current wireless device geographic location and the geographic location of the one or more targets and communicating the distance to the one or more targets to the wireless device.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

Thus present aspects provide for devices apparatus systems methods and computer program products for determining distances to predetermined targets such as targets on a golf course using a wireless communication device such as a cellular telephone. Cellular telephone implementation allows for existing devices to be configured with the requisite application to provide the golf course distance measuring capabilities according to the present aspects. Present aspects provide for accurate and automated determination of the distance to the target such as a golf cup. Current aspects may use the Global Positioning System GPS to determine the distance to the desired target and provide for automatic GPS fixes to be performed when a target such as a golf cup is moved to a new location without requiring any human intervention on behalf of a golf course attendant. Additionally present aspects provide for golf course information such as course layout and the like to be communicated via a wireless network such as a cellular network to the wireless device. In this regard the golfer user may obtain golf course information at any point in time prior to or during a round of golf obviating the need to pre load golf course information via a wired connection to a communication network.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

