---

title: Analyzing and repairing documents
abstract: Techniques for analyzing and repairing documents are described, including evaluating a document at a first location using a first application, the document comprising one or more parameters and being formatted using a document standard, identifying a problem associated with the document by comparing the one or more parameters to the document standard, presenting a status associated with the document, wherein the status is associated with the one or more parameters, and repairing the problem a second location using a second application by modifying at least one of the one or more parameters associated with the document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09276758&OS=09276758&RS=09276758
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 09276758
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080211
---
Examples relate generally to software and user interfaces. More specifically techniques for analyzing and repairing documents are described.

Electronic documents documents are typically created using conventional applications that rely upon a format or standard that identifies layouts fonts and other attributes of how to construct generate and layout the document. For example a document may be created in a text format e.g. American Standard Code for Information Interchange ASCII a specialized format e.g. a format for a spreadsheet or a visual presentation a format that combines two or more media e.g. text with data representing images videos or audios or data in another medium a format using a markup language e.g. Extensible Markup Language XML or Hypertext Markup Language HTML or a portable format e.g. Portable Document Format PDF or XML Paper Specification XPS . However conventional document formatting techniques are problematic.

Conventional solutions lack consistency in terms of how documents are displayed. For example conventional solutions often include or embed unnecessary fonts unreferenced images or excessively large images. Alternatively conventional applications often do not include enough fonts or images referenced in a document. Further conventional solutions do not provide the ability for users skilled or otherwise to determine the quality of a document with regard to any discrepancies with a document format or standard. Thus problems associated with users perception of quality with regard to how well a document is formatted according to a document format or standard can affect user adoption commercial success or other factors. Another problem associated with conventional solutions is the inability to repair problems or issues that affect the quality of a document.

Thus a solution for improving the quality of documents without the limitations of conventional techniques is needed.

Various embodiments or examples may be implemented in numerous ways including as a system a process an apparatus a user interface or a series of program instructions on a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network where the program instructions are sent over optical electronic or wireless communication links. In general operations of disclosed processes may be performed in an arbitrary order unless otherwise provided in the claims.

A detailed description of one or more examples is provided below along with accompanying figures. The detailed description is provided in connection with such examples but is not limited to any particular example. The scope is limited only by the claims and numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents are encompassed. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding. These details are provided as examples and the described techniques may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of the accompanying details. For clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the examples has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description.

In some examples the described techniques may be implemented as a computer program or application application or as a plug in module or sub component of another application. The described techniques may be implemented as software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. If implemented as software the described techniques may be implemented using various types of programming development scripting or formatting languages frameworks syntax applications protocols objects or techniques including C Objective C C C Adobe Integrated Runtime Adobe AIR ActionScript FleX Lingo Java Javascript Ajax Perl COBOL Fortran ADA XML MXML HTML DHTML XHTML HTTP XMPP and others. Design publishing and other types of applications such as Dreamweaver Shockwave Flash and Fireworks may also be used to implement the described techniques. The described techniques may be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.

Various techniques for analyzing and repairing documents are described including evaluating reporting problems and quality issues repairing fixing or resolving i.e. repairing problems and quality issues or other operations associated with documents. Devices computing systems user interfaces computer programs software applications processes methods and programming instructions that implement various techniques for analyzing and repairing documents are also described. These and other techniques may be implemented in any application including those executed on mobile devices that access or view documents. Various techniques for analyzing and repairing documents may be selectively implemented. In other examples different techniques may be implemented differently and are not limited to the examples provided and described.

In some examples there may be no quality agent or more than one quality agent no document viewer or more than one document viewer or no repair tool or more than one repair tool . Document viewer quality agent and repair tool may communicate with one or more other devices not shown instead of or in addition to display . Display may be a display of a mobile device e.g. a personal digital assistant smartphone or cellular phone laptop computer desktop computer or another device or system. In software implementations document viewer quality agent and repair tool may be implemented as a process separate threads or separate processes running in one or more devices e.g. computers connected in a data network e.g. an intra network or inter network . For example quality agent or repair tool may be a module thread fiber sub process or process spawned forked or otherwise started by an operating system or a running process e.g. a process running document viewer . In other examples repair tool may be a module within quality agent a thread of a process running quality agent or another process separated from a process running quality agent . Environment may be varied in design configuration implementation structure function or other aspects and is not limited to the examples shown and described.

In some examples document viewer opens document and may display or otherwise present document in document interface window . Document viewer may be any application tool or module e.g. a plug in to an application having the capability to access a document. Accessing a document e.g. document may include viewing editing reviewing commenting e.g. marking up and replying in collaboration attaching additional data e.g. an image signing i.e. adding a signature or another purpose or operation. In some examples document viewer may be an application e.g. an editor having for example at least some or all of the above described capabilities to edit or otherwise modify document . In other examples document viewer may be a document viewing tool or application designed primarily for viewing a document. Document viewer may be widely or freely available e.g. available for downloading .

Documents may be any document in electronic form. Document may include data representing one or more media such as text graphic images videos animations audios binary objects and other data such as metadata i.e. data about the document or document content . In some examples document may be formatted according to a document standard or specification. For example document may be created e.g. by a tool or application using a specification of a document standard. A document standard may define one or more structures syntax page layouts contents forms fonts objects e.g. images videos audios subroutines or programming code hyperlinks annotations metadata e.g. data regarding the identification of a document creating application one or more flags or data fields e.g. a flag indicating enablement of fast web view i.e. a formatting technique for downloading of a document one page at a time as opposed to an entire document support in a document or other aspects of a document. Examples of document standards may include ASCII HTML XML Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML Scalable Vector Graphics SVG Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language SMIL PDF XPS Open Document Format ODF and others.

In some examples a document standard may be a portable document format standard or specification. For example a portable document standard may be a self contained document format. Documents formatted according to a portable document standard may include the resources e.g. fonts color maps images three dimensional 3D objects or other data for displaying or rendering documents in different devices systems or environments. Documents formatted using a portable document standard may be rendered in a similar or substantially similar manner e.g. having the same look feel interface functions structures or other aspects across multiple platforms systems devices or environments.

In some examples document viewer may analyze scrutinize examine review verify or otherwise evaluate collectively evaluate document . In other examples document viewer may initiate start or launch a document evaluator e.g. quality agent to evaluate document . In some examples quality agent may evaluate document in a manner that does not affect or substantially affect displaying or otherwise accessing document . For example quality agent may be executing in a thread or process having a priority i.e. execution priority in an operating system lower than the priority of another process running document viewer . As another example quality agent may be running as a background process in an operating system. A user accessing document while the document is being evaluated e.g. by quality agent may not notice a significant performance derogation in displaying viewing interacting with or otherwise accessing the document.

Document may be evaluated for quality factors issues potential issues or other attributes associated with the document. For example document may be evaluated to determine one or more attributes or parameters of attributes relating to conformance or compliance to a document standard e.g. structure syntax or other aspects such as those described above accessibility levels i.e. the document s accessibility by persons with visual audio or other disabilities target viewing or operating platforms e.g. whether the document is optimized for Internet access or enabled for fast web view embedded resources e.g. number of fonts or images including their sizes or any fragmentation compression e.g. compression schemes or levels used on images or other contents orphan contents e.g. un referenced contents or other aspects associated with document . For example optimized for Internet or network access may include compressing data e.g. down sampling images to reduce file size. Enable for fast web view may refer to structuring a document turning on or flagging a switch or data field in a document or a combination thereof to allow a document to be displayed before the document is fully downloaded. For example when a page of a document is downloaded the page may be displayed. If a document is not enabled for fast web view the document may have to be downloaded e.g. fully or substantially downloaded before a page or part of the document may be displayed.

Parameters associated with a document e.g. document may be associated with aspects relating to a document standard or aspects not relating to a document standard. In some examples one or more parameters may be configurable. For example there may be parameters associated with various aspects or attributes of a document standard e.g. syntax error formatting structure or embedded resources that may be modified. A parameter for example may be configured to flag or otherwise indicate a syntax error with respect to a document standard if a given type of error e.g. an error relating to the structure or page layout or number of errors e.g. three have been found. Another parameter may be configured to indicate non compliance with a document standard if for example document fails to meet conditions parameters attributes or characteristics e.g. not including a font image or another resource referenced in the document . Parameters may be compared to a document standard to determine compliance or a lack thereof. In some examples a difference between a document e.g. document and a document standard may occur with one or more parameters. For example if a document has a parameter that meets or exceeds a threshold a difference between the threshold and the parameter may be used to indicate that the document presented in document interface window or document status interface does not conform to or meet a document standard. Otherwise differences may not be indicated or may be ignored.

In some examples there may be parameters configurable or non configurable associated with other aspects of a document e.g. file size application identification ID compression methods security implementations or platform related indications such as accelerated or fast web view . For example there may be a parameter associated with the file size of document a parameter associated with an application ID i.e. of the application created document or a parameter associated with a flag in document e.g. setting a flag indicating turning on fast web view . In some examples there may be other attributes or parameters associated with document accessibility. Document accessibility or access may refer to the configuration of a document to provide access to the document to persons with disabilities e.g. visual or audio disabilities . For example a document may include captions or tags associated with image data to provide descriptions of images e.g. for reading using a Braille reading device or listening using a text readout device . In some examples a document structure for accessibility may include a tree structure that represents the logical organization of a document and each document element may be tagged. For example first level headers second level headers paragraphs footnotes running headers are examples of document elements that may be tagged. As an example processes configured to use a tree structure representing the logical organization of a document may be configured to reflow i.e. resize display or otherwise present differently than originally specified in a document data associated with a document to be more suitable for use as assistive technology.

In some examples document status interface may be displayed or presented after evaluation of document . Document status interface may be presented for example as an icon or widget in display apart from document interface window i.e. in separated windows or within document interface window . In some examples document status interface presents an indicator of the quality of document based on an evaluation of document . As used herein the term quality with respect to document refers generally to whether an attribute parameter property or criterion collectively criteria is met or substantially met. In other examples sets of criteria may be used. For example a set of criteria may include one or more criteria which may be user or system determined. In some examples if criteria are met then a document may be indicated as being of a higher quality. In other examples quality may also be determined by whether one or more select criteria key criteria are met. As used herein key criteria may refer to criteria that are indicated as being more important than others. In yet other examples quality of a document may be determined by the number of criteria met and whether key criteria are met. Meeting a criterion may be determined by meeting or exceeding a threshold. Meeting a criterion may also be determined by whether the criterion are at or near a threshold e.g. within a certain range such as 10 percent of a threshold associated with the criterion. In some examples a threshold may be set or changed by a user.

In some examples document status interface may present various types of indicators including a color indicator a numerical indicator a textual indicator other visual indicator or a combination thereof. For example document status interface may include a set of two key criteria and other criteria non key criteria . In some examples each key criterion when met may be given an arbitrary value of 25 percent and each non key criterion when met may be given an arbitrary value of 10 percent. The sum of percentages may be assigned a status indicator or symbol. In some examples different sums may be assigned different symbols. In an implementation of four levels of status for example a sum of 85 percent or more may be indicated using various types of labels symbols letters colors or other techniques. Likewise a sum of for example 70 to 84 percent may be presented by a neutral face letter M yellow color numerical value or other techniques. A sum of 55 to 69 percent may be presented by a sad face letter L red color numerical value or another indicator or status. A sum of below 55 percent may be presented by different symbols letters colors indicators status indicators or other techniques. In other examples there may be fewer than four levels of status e.g. pass or no pass or more than four levels of status e.g. a status for each ten percent increment .

In some examples document report interface may be displayed or presented after evaluation of document . Document report interface may be displayed instead of or in addition to document status interface . In other examples interaction with document status interface may cause document report interface to be presented. For example when a user interfaces with e.g. clicks on document status interface document report interface may pop up appear display or otherwise be presented to show the status of one or more parameters. The parameters being displayed may be selected based on meeting one or more criteria. For example when quality agent is configured to evaluate four criteria e.g. optimizing for Internet access accessibility document standard compliance embedded resources document report interface may show one or more parameters relating to each criteria that contribute to a document s quality status e.g. included in a status shown in document status interface . A report may state for example that a document is not optimized for Internet access is partially optimized for Internet access e.g. 60 percent optimized or is not optimized for Internet access. A report may also indicate that a document is not supporting or supporting visual impaired audio impaired or another type of accessibility. Further a report may indicate that a document includes a number of syntax errors with respect to a document specification or fails to include resources e.g. images or fonts . Still further a report may indicate that a document includes an excessive number of resources e.g. 1000 images or uncompressed images or resources of a given size.

In some examples a user may initiate repairing or otherwise modifying a document e.g. document to change the document based on one or more problems or issues. Issue repairing may be initiated from document interface window document status interface document report interface or another window or interface not shown . For example a user may select one or more issues from document report interface and indicate or request repairing various issues such as by clicking on a repair button not shown . Further issue repairing may be initiated by starting repair tool such as by directing to open and evaluate document independent of document viewer quality agent or both. In other examples document viewer quality agent or another entity may start repair tool .

In some examples repair tool may be a local service. A local service may be a service executed in the same process as quality agent or document viewer or a service executed in the same device or same operating system as quality agent or document viewer . In other examples repair tool may be a hosted service e.g. a service provided by an application in a remote location a web based service hosted by an application service provider or the like . In repairing a document e.g. document document repair interface may be displayed or otherwise presented. For example document repair interface may be displayed with one or more issues or problems e.g. quality issues such as syntax errors or lack of optimization for Internet access . A user may for example select one or more issues for repairing. When an issue is selected a signal may be sent from issue repair interface to repair tool to repair one or more selected issue. In some examples document repair interface may receive status e.g. of a successful or failed repair from repair tool .

In some examples repair tool may repair document in a manner that does not affect or substantially affect displaying or otherwise accessing document . For example repair tool may be executed in a thread or process having a priority in an operating system lower than the priority of another process running document viewer or quality agent . In another example repair tool may be running as a background process in an operating system. Access of document while the document is being repaired e.g. by repair tool may not result in performance degradation while simultaneously or substantially displaying viewing interacting with or otherwise accessing document .

In some examples documents may be accessed e.g. viewed evaluated repaired or the like using for example device computer or servers . Examples of portable devices include personal digital assistants PDA smartphones cellular phones portable computers e.g. laptop computers and other devices designed for portability or mobility e.g. a device installed in a vehicle or airplane . Here device may be used to access a local document or a remote document e.g. one of documents . In some examples a remote document may be downloaded to device before accessing. For example a remote document e.g. one of documents resides or exists in computer server or or another repository not shown and may be downloaded using network communication path communication structure or communication path . In other examples a remote document may be downloaded and accessed simultaneously or substantially simultaneously. Device may access a document local or remote using document viewer or quality agent e.g. evaluated by document viewer or quality agent . In some examples device may include a repair tool not shown to repair a document.

In some examples a document e.g. document may be accessed e.g. viewed evaluated or repaired using a device not designed for portability or mobility such as computer . Here computer may be used to access a local document or a remote document e.g. one of documents and . In some examples a remote document may be downloaded to computer before accessing. For example a remote document e.g. one of documents and may be stored or housed in device server or or another repository not shown may be downloaded via network and communication path . In other examples a remote document may be downloaded and accessed concurrently i.e. accessed the portion of a remote document that has been retrieved or transmitted to computer . Computer may access a document local or remote using document viewer or quality agent e.g. evaluated by document viewer or quality agent . In some examples computer may include a repair tool e.g. repair tool to repair document .

In system device computer or another client not shown may access documents from local or remote locations for viewing evaluating or repairing as described above. For example a document may be evaluated according to one or more parameters. As an example device may include one or more parameters configured to evaluate a document i.e. locally or remotely against a document standard e.g. syntax error formatting structure or embedded fonts one or more parameters configured to evaluate accessibility support one or more parameters configured to evaluate a document remotely for embedding excessive or unnecessary resources e.g. unnecessary or unused images or fonts file size or another parameter configured to evaluate a document remotely for enabling fast web view. Other parameters may be used and are not limited to those described. For example when evaluating document at device quality agent may perform an evaluation using one or more of the above described parameters or others. When evaluating a document e.g. document quality agent may perform an evaluation according to various parameters. The evaluation may be reported using a status indicator not shown issue report not shown or other technique. In some examples device may include one or more parameters that may be used for evaluating a local document e.g. document and not a document downloaded to for example device .

After a document is evaluated a status associated with the document may be presented e.g. via document status interface or one or more issues may be reported e.g. via document report interface . In some examples one or more problems or issues associated with a document may be modified or repaired. For example a user may initiate e.g. via document report interface repairing or modifying a document according to one or more parameters based on an evaluation of the document. In some examples a document may be repaired locally i.e. executing repair tools services within device or computer . In other examples a document e.g. document may be repaired by a remote service such as repair tool executed i.e. run on server . A remote service may include a quality agent not shown for evaluating a document e.g. documents . In still other examples a document may be evaluated or repaired differently using configurations other than those shown and described e.g. a remote service involving a different application or a user performing or initiating the analysis of a document or repair of an identified issue . As an example device may be used to view or evaluate a document e.g. document using document viewer or quality agent which may be executed in one or more processes executed or running on an operating system. If device does not include quality agent documents may be evaluated by an evaluation service not shown . After evaluating documents one or more problems or issues issues may be determined. Using device a request may be initiated to modify the document according to one or more parameters to improve accessibility supports or repair other issues e.g. relating to a document standard . A modification request documents or a combination thereof may be sent to repair tool using for example one or more of communication paths . In other examples repair tool may modify documents to repair an issue by modifying one or more parameters. Repair tool may be executed in one or more processes e.g. as application service provider processes executed or run on one or more operating systems of server . After an issue has been repaired documents may be sent to or downloaded by device .

In some examples there may be more than one instance of repair tool running on one or more servers e.g. server . Server may respond to or serve requests from any number of clients e.g. device computer and others . In some examples server may be configured to provide fee based services to repair documents. For example a paid document evaluation service not shown document repair service or other type of service may be provided using the techniques described herein. As an example a portable device e.g. device non portable client e.g. computer or other type of client may encounter one or more problems or issues when accessing a document e.g. documents or respectively . Issues may include for example illegal syntax accessibility issues image fragmentations improper compression on images e.g. images being uncompressed or compressed with older or incompatible techniques hidden orphan or damaged text data or pages e.g. needs to be removed or others.

In other examples a document may be optimized i.e. issues may be repaired before being shared or accessed on a network. For example documents may be optimized to download sample images video data or audio clips according to page content for fast web view to ensure documents are formatted in accordance with a document standard to support accessibility or access or other purposes other than those described. In some examples tools such as quality agent or repair tool may be used to detect whether a document was created using an outdated application or a lower quality application by another vendor e.g. via an application ID field in the document providing an opportunity to protect a vendor s reputation present sales or advertisements e.g. for purchasing updated or upgraded versions of the application or related products or services or establish other commercial relationships with users. For example quality agent may be used by one vendor to identify detect or reveal e.g. in a technical support situation that a document was created by an application made by another vendor third party . In some examples quality agent may detect whether a given document was created by a third party application developed by another vendor. Detection of usage of a third party application with regard to a given document provides the ability to decline support or offer the opportunity to purchase support to repair or improve a document using the techniques described herein. Using the techniques described a vendor may also upon detection of a third party application s usage present information to a user that identifies an application other than the vendor s was used to create modify or otherwise edit the document thus avoiding reputational harm or other detrimental business or technical effects. In some examples users may elect to purchase a service from the vendor license an application or engage in other activities with a vendor to provide an application that may repair or improve a document for a fee. In some examples the reputation of a vendor may be protected for example by identifying issues associated with a document that were caused by a third party application. In some examples an application may be used to access a document formatted according to a portable document format e.g. PDF and to detect issues caused by a third party or different application used to create the document. For example a portable document format authoring and editing application e.g. Acrobat developed by Adobe Systems Incorporated of San Jose Calif. and others may be used to implement the described techniques in order to detect issues caused by other applications that may generate poorly formatted documents. As an example when users access i.e. open a PDF document using an application issues created by another application that was used to create the document may be incorrectly attributed to the accessing application. However using the techniques described herein issues may be accurately identified and attributed to their proper source and solution. In other examples the above techniques may be varied with respect to the types sources or developers of applications using the described techniques and are not limited to any specific example set forth.

In addition to implementing the described techniques as for example fee based services for purposes such as evaluating repairing or optimizing a document the described techniques may be used differently. For example services e.g. evaluating or repairing a document may be offered free of charge or at a reduced fee to promote other products or services or in exchange for users accepting or enabling advertisement in documents. The above described devices services processes interfaces components or systems may be varied in number design configuration implementation structure function or other aspects and are not limited to the examples shown and described.

In some examples when data is received by API module it may be transferred to one or more other modules e.g. logic module input module issue analysis module issue report module issue repair module display output module repository and others using bus . For example after display output module has displayed a document status or quality indicator e.g. document status interface API module may receive data or signals from an input driver not shown input data or signal for example to interact with the quality indicator. The input data may be communicated to input module for processing e.g. determining which module is being accessed which parameter associated with a document is being configured . In some examples input data may be used to direct issue report module to generate and present information on an interface e.g. document report interface associated with reporting one or more issues associated with a document. In other examples input data may be used by issue repair module to generate and present information on an interface e.g. document repair interface to repair one or more issues associated with a document.

In some examples logic module may be configured to control data flow through bus and direct services provided by API module input module issue analysis module issue report module issue repair module display output module and repository to implement techniques for analyzing and repairing documents. For example a document and a document standard e.g. a portable document specification may be stored in repository . In response to an input activating a document evaluation process logic module may direct issue analysis module to retrieve a document a document standard or a combination thereof from repository direct issue report module to layout document status interface and direct display output module to display document status interface . Application and the above described modules and elements may be varied in design function configuration implementation or other aspects and are not limited to the descriptions provided above.

According to some examples computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions may be read into system memory from another computer readable medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In some examples circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation.

The term computer readable medium refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus for transmitting a computer data signal.

Common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In some examples execution of the sequences of instructions may be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. LAN PSTN or wireless network may perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system may transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution.

The foregoing examples have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding but are not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways and techniques for implementation. The disclosed examples are illustrative and not restrictive.

