---

title: Kinase peptides and antibodies
abstract: The invention relates to novel kinase peptides and antibodies, as well as nucleic acids related to them. The peptides, antibodies and the nucleic acids are useful for the detection, staging and monitoring of the progression of a kinase-mediated disease, as well as for determining or monitoring the efficacy of treatment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07897354&OS=07897354&RS=07897354
owner: Nuclea Biotechnologies, Inc.
number: 07897354
owner_city: Pittsfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080407
---
This application is a continuation in part of Ser. No. 11 435 570 filed 17 May 2006 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 682 115 filed May 18 2005 the entirety of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates to kinase peptides and antibodies having immunospecificity for kinase polypeptides and proteins as well as nucleic acids related to these peptides and antibodies and methods for using the peptides and antibodies.

Protein kinases are enzymes that covalently modify proteins by attaching phosphate groups from ATP to serine threonine and or tyrosine residues. In so doing the functional properties of the protein kinase s substrates are modified. Protein kinases transduce signals from the cell membrane into the interior of the cell. Such signals include not only those arising from ligand receptor interactions but also environmental perturbations when the membrane undergoes mechanical deformation i.e. cell stretch or shear stress . Ultimately the activation of signaling pathways that use protein kinases often culminate in the reprogramming of gene expression through the direct regulation of transcription factors or through the regulation of mRNA stability or protein translation. Protein kinases regulate most aspects of normal cellular function.

Many signal transduction pathways involved in the control of cell proliferation and differentiation originate with transmembrane receptors containing cytoplasmic protein kinase domains. For instance there are many kinds of cytokine and growth factor receptors that belong to different receptor families. Most of these receptors function as 1 receptor tyrosine kinase and tyrosine kinase associated receptor see for example Fanti et al. 1993 Annu. Rev. Biochem 62 453 2 receptors serine threonine kinase for example Josso and di Clemente 1997 Curr Opin Genet Dev. 7 371 7 Dijke et al. 1996 Curr Opin Cell Biol. 8 2 139 45 or 3 G protein linked receptors Piper and Zeuzem 2004 Curr Pharm Des. 10 28 3539 45 Presland 2004 Biochem Soc Trans. 32 Pt 5 888 91 . Following binding with an extracellular ligand and activation the receptors trigger different cascade of intracellular protein phosphorylation to transduction signals thereby altering the cell s pattern of gene expression and leading to biological effects.

The pathophysiological dysfunction of protein kinase signaling pathways underlies the molecular basis of many cancers and of several manifestations of cardiovascular disease such as hypertrophy and other types of left ventricular remodeling ischemia reperfusion injury angiogenesis and atherogenesis. Because of the important roles the protein kinases play they have emerged as crucial targets for a variety of diagnostic and therapeutic indications including cancer inflammatory disorders autoimmune diseases e.g. diabetes cardiovascular diseases and neurological disorders.

The present invention provides kinase peptides antibodies and related nucleic acids. The present invention also provides diagnostic and therapeutic compositions and methods using these peptides antibodies and nucleic acids.

The present invention provides an isolated and or recombinant kinase peptide comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 23.

In one embodiment a mixture comprising two or more isolated and or recombinant kinase peptides is provided.

The invention further provides an antibody specifically immunoreactive with one or more kinase peptides comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 23.

The present invention provides an isolated nucleic acid comprising a sequence encoding a peptide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 23 or a complementary nucleotide sequence. 

The kinase peptide antibody or nucleic acid of the invention may further comprise a detectable label. The kinase peptide antibody or nucleic acid of the invention may be immobilized on a substrate.

The present invention also provides an expression vector comprising a nucleic acid which comprises a sequence encoding a peptide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 23 or a complementary nucleotide sequence. The present invention further provides a host cell transfected with the expression vector.

The present invention provides a composition for detecting kinase polypeptides or proteins in a sample comprising a primary antibody specifically immunoreactive with one or more kinase peptides comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 23. The primary antibody may be labeled with a detectable label.

The composition of the invention may further comprise a secondary antibody. In one embodiment the secondary antibody reacts with the primary antibody. In another embodiment the secondary antibody is specifically immunoreactive with one or more kinase peptides comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 23. The secondary antibody may be labeled with a detectable label.

The present invention provides a composition for detecting one or more kinase polypeptides or proteins in a sample comprising a nucleic acid which comprises at least a portion of a sequence encoding a peptide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 23 or a complementary nucleotide sequence. The nucleic acid preferably comprises at least about 5 up to about 30 nucleic acid bases encoding a portion of a peptide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 23 or a complementary nucleotide sequence.

The present invention provides a method for detecting diagnosing staging or monitoring the progression of a kinase mediated disease in a subject the method comprising the steps of a providing a sample from the subject b detecting a level of a kinase polypeptide or protein in the sample using an antibody specifically immunoreactive with a kinase peptide comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 23 and c comparing the level s of the kinase polypeptide s in the sample to a baseline level of the kinase polypeptide s where a difference in level s of the kinase polypeptide s is indicative of the presence stage or progression of the disease in the subject.

The step of detecting or monitoring is may be accomplished by a method selected from the group consisting of immunoblot enzyme linked immunosorbant assay ELISA radioimmunoassay RIA immunoprecipitation immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence.

The present invention provides a method for detecting diagnosing staging or monitoring the progression of a kinase mediated disease in a subject the method comprising the steps of a providing a sample from the subject b detecting a level of a kinase nucleic acid in the sample using a nucleic acid which comprises a sequence encoding a peptide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 23 or a complementary nucleotide sequence and c comparing the level of the kinase nucleic acid in the sample to a baseline level of the kinase nucleic acid where a difference in level of the kinase nucleic acid is indicative of the presence stage or progression of the disease in the subject.

The step of detecting or monitoring is may be accomplished by a method selected from the group consisting of polymerase chain reaction PCR reverse transcriptase PCR RT PCR in situ hybridization Southern blot Northern blot sequence analysis gene microarray analysis and detection of a reporter gene.

In one aspect the method of the invention further comprises determining the efficacy of therapeutic intervention or treatment by a step of d modifying therapeutic intervention or treatment of the disease based on the difference in kinase level s as indicated in step c .

In one embodiment the sample is obtained from a patient to be diagnosed monitored or treated for the disease and the baseline level is from a control sample from a patient not having the disease.

In another embodiment the sample is from a patient who is known to have the disease and the baseline level comprises a level of kinase from a previous disease sample from the same patient wherein a difference in the level of the kinase indicates that the patient is at a different disease stage or is indicative of the efficacy of therapeutic intervention or treatment e.g the responsiveness of the patient to therapy.

The sample of the invention may comprise for example a bodily fluid sample a tissue sample or a cell sample. The sample may be immobilized on a substrate.

In one embodiment the method of the invention is used to determine the prognosis of the disease in a patient. In another embodiment the method of the invention is used to determine the susceptibility of a patient to a therapeutic treatment.

The present invention provides novel kinase peptides and antibodies specifically immunoreactive to these kinase peptides. Also provided are nucleic acids encoding the peptides and antibodies of the invention as well as probes primers which hybridize to kinase peptides or proteins. The peptides antibodies and nucleic acids may be used in researching kinase related biological activities e.g. signal transduction as well as in disease diagnosis monitoring prognosis and therapy.

Different kinases phosphorylate different amino acid residues and they may play different yet overlapping roles. There are over 500 protein kinases encoded in the human genome. For example tyrosine protein kinases in general respond to growth factors or mitogenic signals and phosphorylate proteins that initiate rapid signal transduction. Serine threonine protein kinases typically phosphorylate proteins that integrate and amplify intracellular signals leading in some cases to regulation of certain transcription factors and expression of genes. Many kinases have been implicated as playing a role in diseases including cancer and other inflammatory diseases autoimmune diseases e.g. diabetes cardiovascular diseases and neurological disorders. Chapter 2 and Tables 1 6 in Kinases From Targets to Therapeutics CHA Advances Reports July 2003 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety . A disease or disorder in which a kinase is implicated is referred to herein as a kinase mediated disease. 

Useful kinases of the present invention include both receptor and nonreceptor kinases. The kinases serve as the targets for research diagnostic or therapeutic application of the present invention. Tables 1 4 list some nonlimiting examples. in Tables 1 4 refers to the OMIM . Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man Accession Number.

In one embodiment the protein kinase of the invention is a receptor tyrosine kinase RTK . RTKs recognize peptide growth factor ligands e.g. hormones . The binding of a ligand leads to autophosphorylation of RTKs and stimulates the receptor s tyrosine kinase activity which subsequently stimulates a signal transduction cascade. The RTK pathways are involved in regulation of cell proliferation and differentiation and many other functions by transmitting a hormone signal to Ras a monomeric G protein that passes the signal on to downstream components. Receptor tyrosine kinases RTKs have been shown to be involved in cancer see e.g. Rowinsky 2003 The Oncologist 8 5 17 Bucher et al. 2004 Swiss Med. Wkly. 134 145 153 Gotlib et al. 2004 Blood 103 2879 91 and cardiovascular diseases e.g. see Force et al. 2004 Circulation 109 1196 1205 as well as other diseases.

In one embodiment the RTK is selected from the group consisting of Ax1 P30530 ErbB3 NP001973 PDGF R . NP006197 Dtk P55144 ErbB4 Q15303 PDGF R .beta. NP002600 PDGF R .beta. P02452 FGF R1 NP056934 c Ret P07949 EphA1 NP005223 FGF R2 NP002010 ROR1 Q01973 EphA2 NP004422 FGF R3 NM 022965 ROR2 Q01974 EphA3 NP872585 FGF R4 NM022965 SCF R NP954637 EphA4 P54764 Flt 3 NP000750 Tie 1 P35590 EphA6 P54758 HGF R Q04756 Tie 2 Q02763 EphA7 NP004431 IGF 1 R NP000609 TrkA P04629 EphB1 NP004432 Insulin R NP034700 TrkB Q16620 EphB2 NP004433 M CSF R P07333 TrkC CAA12029 EphB4 NP004435 Mer Q12866 VEGF R1 NP003367 EphB6 NP004436 MSP R Q04912 VEGF R2 AAR26285 ErbB2 NP004439 MuSK NP005583 and VEGF R3 P35916 . The numbers in the parentheses represent NCBI protein accession numbers for the RTKs.

In another embodiment the protein kinase is a Mitogen activated protein kinase MAPK . Activated Ras induces a kinase signal cascade that culminates in activation of MAPK. MAPKs are serine threonine kinases that can translocate into the nucleus of the cell and phosphorylate transcription factors that regulate gene expression. Multiple MAPK pathways are found in eukaryotic cells and lead to different specific actions depending on the stimulus. MAPKs may amongst other things promote expression of cyclins proteins involved in cell division cell cycle .

In another embodiment of the invention the kinase is an MAPK activated protein MAPKAP kinase which is also a serine threonine kinase. Several MAPKAP kinases are activated by MAPK family members termed extracellular signal regulated kinases ERK1 ERK2 and stress activated protein kinase 2 SAPK2 also called p38 . The MAPKAP kinases can be subdivided into two groups those comprising two kinase domains in a single polypeptide and those with a single kinase domain. For example the MAPKAP kinases comprising a single kinase domain are MAPKAP K2 MAPKAP K3 MAPKAP K5 also called p38 regulated activated kinase or PRAK and MAPK integrating kinase MNK . MAPKAP K2 and MAPKAP K3 are activated by SAPK2 in vivo and one of their physiological substrates is heat shock protein HSP 27. MAPKAP K5 is also activated in vivo by SAPK2. MAPKAP K2 is involved in controlling production of the proinflammatory cytokines tumomecrosis factor interleukin 6 and interferon at a post transcriptional level. The cellular response to DNA damage is mediated by evolutionarily conserved Ser Thr kinases phosphorylation of Cdc25 protein phosphatases binding to 14 3 3 proteins and exit from the cell cycle. MAPKAP kinase 2 is directly responsible for Cdc25B C phosphorylation and 14 3 3 binding in vitro and in response to UV induced DNA damage within mammalian cells. Downregulation of MAPKAP kinase 2 eliminates DNA damage induced G2 M G1 and intra S phase checkpoints. MAPKs and MAPKAP kinases have been indicated in cancer e.g. see Platanias 2003 Blood 101 4667 4679 inflammatory diseases e.g. Hommes et al. 2003 Gut 52 144 151 and diabetes e.g. Shanley 2004 Invest Opthalmol Vis Sci. 45 1088 94 as well as other diseases.

In one embodiment the MAPKAP kinase contains a sequence represented by NCBI protein accession number AAD09136 AA960234 AAH24559 or AAH63064.

In another embodiment the protein kinase is a phosphoinositide 3 PI3 kinase. PI3 kinases are activated by growth factors insulin and G protein coupled receptors and convert phosphatidylinositol 4 5 bisphosphate into phosphatidylinositol 3 4 5 triphosphate PIP3 a ubiquitous second messager. PIP3 binds to a variety of effector molecules including protein serine threonine kinases protein kinase B PDK1 Tec family protein tyrosine kinases and regulators of monomeric G proteins such as GRP 1 that control cell growth proliferation and shape prevent apoptosis stimulate directed cell movement and mediate the metabolic actions of insulin. PI3 has been indicated in diabetes e.g. Shanley 2004 Invest Opthalmol V is Sci. 45 1088 94 Storz 1999 Eur J. Biochem. 266 17 25 and other diseases. In one embodiment the PI3 kinase is p110 or p85 .

The present invention provides novel isolated kinase peptides as well as a mixture containing two or more kinase peptides.

As used herein the term peptide refers to a natural or synthetic molecule comprising two or more amino acids linked by the carboxyl group of one amino acid and the amino group of another. A peptide of the present invention is not limited by length thus the term encompasses polypeptide and protein. A kinase peptide of the present invention is a peptide fragment derived from a kinase protein and is preferably between about 2 to about 100 amino acids in length more preferably between about 5 to about 50 amino acids in length more preferably between about 10 to about 30 amino acids in length even more preferably between about 10 to about 20 amino acids in length. The terms polypeptide and protein sometimes are used interchangeably. A kinase polypeptide or kinase protein may refer to an entire kinase protein or to fragment or variant thereof.

Preferably the kinase peptide of the present invention contains an epitope for the production of an antibody specifically immunoreactive to the kinase peptide.

In a preferred embodiment the peptide of the present invention comprises a peptide containing an epitope either an immunogenic epitope or an antigenic epitope. An immunogenic epitope as used herein refers to a portion of a peptide that elicits an antibody response in an animal as determined by any method known in the art for example by the methods for generating antibodies described herein. See for example Geysen et al. 1983 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 81 3998 4002 . The term antigenic epitope as used herein refers to a portion of a protein to which an antibody can immunospecifically bind to its antigen as determined by any method well known in the art for example by the immunoassays described herein. Antigenic epitopes need not necessarily be immunogenic. Peptides that function as epitopes may be produced by any conventional means. See e.g. Houghten 1985 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 82 5131 5135 and as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 631 211 .

As used herein the term isolated with respect to peptides nucleic acids or antibodies refers to that the material is removed from its original environment e.g. the natural environment if it is naturally occurring . For example a naturally occurring nucleic acid or peptide or antibody present in a living animal is not isolated but the same nucleic acid or peptide or antibody which is separated from some or all of the coexisting materials in the natural system is isolated. Such isolated nucleic acid could be part of a vector and such isolated nucleic acid or peptide or antibody could be part of a composition and still be isolated in that the vector or composition is not part of its natural environment. An isolated peptide nucleic acid or antibody also includes material synthesized or produced by recombinant DNA technology as well as preparations such as serum containing an antibody of the invention.

In one embodiment the kinase peptide of the invention is synthesized by methods known in the art and as described below. In another preferred embodiment the kinase peptide is produced by expressing a nucleic acid encoding the peptide.

Kinase peptides can be synthesized by different methods well known in the art. For example including ribosomally directed fermentation methods as well as non ribosomal strategies and chemical synthesis methods. Kinase peptides containing the 20 natural amino acids can be prepared via recombinant expression systems that utilize the ribosomally directed peptide synthesis machinery of a host organism e.g. . Alternatively kinase peptides including those containing unnatural or non proteninogenic amino acids or modified amino acid side chains can be prepared through a solution phase chemical synthesis of peptides e.g. using N Boc protection and the activated ester route . Protocols for sequence solution phase chemical synthesis of peptides have been described in Andersson et al. Biopolymers 55 227 250 2000 . One method used for generating peptides is solution phase chemical synthesis which employs a N tert butoxy N Boc protected amino acid and a C protected amino acid Andersson et al. Biopolymers 55 227 250 2000 . An alternative solution phase method for chemically catalyzed peptide synthesis employs pre activated esters as the carboxyl component for coupling Andersson et al. Biopolymers 55 227 250 2000 . In addition enzyme mediated solid phase peptide synthesis has also been employed. Solid phase peptide synthesis SPPS uses insoluble resin supports and has simplified and accelerated peptide synthesis and facilitated purification Merrifield R. B. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 85 2149 2154 1963 . Since the growing peptide is anchored on an insoluble resin unreacted soluble reagents can be removed by simple filtration or washing without manipulative losses. Solid phase peptide synthesis can be performed using automation. Those skilled in the art will recognize that various peptides are within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

The kinase peptides according to the present invention can be modified for example by the addition of an acetyl or amine group or amino acids at the amino and or carboxy terminus of the peptide. Amino acid addition modifications may also be performed for example to alter the conformation of the epitope bearing peptide such that the epitope will have a conformation more closely related to the structure of the epitope in the native protein. An example of a modified epitope bearing peptide of the invention is a peptide in which one or more cysteine residues have been added to the peptide to allow for the formation of a disulfide bond between two cysteines thus resulting in a stable loop structure of the epitope bearing peptide under non reducing conditions. Disulfide bonds can form between a cysteine residue added to the peptide and a cysteine residue of the naturally occurring epitope or between two cysteines which have both been added to the naturally occurring epitope bearing peptide.

In addition it is possible to modify one or more amino acid residues of the peptide by substitution with cysteines to promote the formation of disulfide bonded loop structures. Cyclic thioether molecules of synthetic peptides can be routinely generated using techniques known in the art e.g. as described in PCT publication WO 97 46251 incorporated in its entirety by reference herein. Other modifications of epitope bearing peptides contemplated by this invention include biotinylation.

In one embodiment the kinase peptide of the invention is modified by adding an acetyl group at the amino terminus and or an amide group at the carboxyl terminus.

The kinase peptide of the invention may be provided as a chimeric peptide such as in the form of a fusion peptide. For instance the kinase peptide can be provided as a recombinant fusion peptide which includes a second peptide portion having an amino acid sequence unrelated heterologous to the kinase peptide. For example the second peptide portion may be glutathione S transferase or a peptide with an enzymatic activity such as alkaline phosphatase or an epitope tag.

In one embodiment the kinase peptide of the present invention has a biological activity including the ability to bind to a ligand phosphorylate a tyrosine serine or threonine residue of a protein or peptide substrate. For example the kinase peptide may compete with a kinase protein in binding to the ligand thus specifically modulates the activities of the kinase protein.

In one embodiment the kinase peptide contains an amino acid sequence that is identical with or homologous to a sequence represented by anyone of SEQ ID NOs. 1 23. A homologous sequence is at least 70 75 80 85 90 or 95 identical to the peptide represented by anyone of SEQ ID NOs. 1 23.

In a preferred embodiment the kinase peptide is encoded by a nucleic acid containing any combination of nucleotide degeneracy.

The invention also provides a mixture of two or more kinase peptides each containing an amino acid sequence that is identical with or homologous to a sequence represented in SEQ ID NOs. 1 23. In one embodiment the mixture contains two or more peptides each containing an amino acid sequence that is identical with or homologous to a sequence represented in SEQ ID NOs. 1 6. In another embodiment the mixture contains two or more peptides each containing an amino acid sequence that is identical with or homologous to a sequence represented in SEQ ID NOs. 7 11. In another embodiment the mixture contains two or more peptides each containing an amino acid sequence that is identical with or homologous to a sequence represented in SEQ ID NOs. 12 23.

The peptides may be derivatized e.g. by conjugation with bovine serum albumin BSA or keyhole limpet hemocyanin KLH and or with a functional group such as hydroxy OH acetyl CH.sub.2C00H or amide NH.sub.2 .

The present invention also provides kinase antibodies that are specifically immunoreactive to peptides e.g. the kinase peptides and kinase proteins as described above. The antibodies may be polyclonal or monoclonal or recombinant produced by methods known in the art or as described below.

As use herein the term specifically immunoreactive refers to a measurable and reproducible specific immunoreaction such as binding between a peptide and an antibody that is determinative of the presence of the peptide in the presence of a heterogeneous population of peptides and other biologics. The term specifically immunoreactive may include specific recognition of structural shapes and surface features. Thus under designated conditions an antibody specifically immunoreactive to a particular peptide does not bind in a significant amount to other peptides present in the sample. An antibody specifically immunoreactive to a peptide has an association constant of at least 10.sup.3M.sup. 1 or 10.sup.4M.sup. 1 sometimes about 10.sup.5M.sup. 1 or 10.sup.6M.sup. 1 in other instances 10.sup.6M.sup. 1 or 10.sup.7M.sup. 1 preferably about 10.sup.8M.sup. 1 to 10.sup.9M.sup. 1 and more preferably about 10.sup.10M.sup. 1 to 10.sup.11M.sup. 1 or higher. A variety of immunoassay formats can be used to determine antibodies specifically immunoreactive to a particular peptide. For example solid phase ELISA immunoassays are routinely used to select monoclonal antibodies specifically immunoreactive with a peptide. See e.g. Harlow and Lane 1988 Antibodies A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Publications New York for a description of immunoassay formats and conditions that can be used to determine specific immunoreactivity.

As used herein the term antibody refers to an immunoglobulin specifically immunoreactive to a given antigen e.g. a kinase peptide of the invention . The term antibody as used herein is intended to include whole antibodies of any isotype IgG IgA IgM IgE etc and fragments thereof. An antibody of the invention also includes an antibody preparation e.g. a serum antiserum . Antibodies can be fragmented using conventional techniques and the fragments screened for utility in the same manner as whole antibodies. Thus the term includes segments of proteolytically cleaved or recombinantly prepared portions of an antibody molecule that selectively reacts with a certain protein or peptide. Non limiting examples of such proteolytic and or recombinant fragments include Fab F ab 2 Fab Fv and single chain antibodies scFv containing a V L and or V H domain joined by a peptide linker. The scFv s may be covalently or non covalently linked to form antibodies having two or more binding sites. Antibodies may be labeled with detectable labels by one of skill in the art. The label can be a radioisotope fluorescent compound chemiluminescent compound enzyme or enzyme co factor or any other labels known in the art. In some aspects the antibody that binds to an entity one wishes to measure the primary antibody is not labeled but is instead detected by binding of a labeled secondary antibody that specifically binds to the primary antibody.

Antibodies of the invention include but are not limited to polyclonal monoclonal multispecific human humanized or chimeric antibodies single chain antibodies Fab fragments F ab fragments fragments produced by a Fab expression library anti idiotypic anti Id antibodies including e.g. anti Id antibodies to antibodies of the invention intracellularly made antibodies i.e. intrabodies and epitope binding fragments of any of the above. The antibodies of the invention can be from any animal origin including birds and mammals. Preferably the antibodies are of human murine e.g. mouse and rat donkey sheep rabbit goat guinea pig camel horse or chicken origin.

As used herein a monoclonal antibody refers to an antibody that recognizes only one type of antigen. This type of antibodies is produced by the daughter cells of a single antibody producing hybridoma. A monoclonal antibody typically displays a single binding affinity for any epitope with which it immunoreacts. A monoclonal antibody may contain an antibody molecule having a plurality of antibody combining sites each immunospecific for a different epitope e.g. a bispecific monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies may be obtained by methods known to those skilled in the art. Kohler and Milstein 1975 Nature 256 495 497 U.S. Pat. No. 4 376 110 Ausubel et al. 1987 1992 eds. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Greene Publishing Assoc. and Wiley Interscience N.Y. Harlow and Lane 1988 ANTIBODIES A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Colligan et al. 1992 1993 eds. Current Protocols in Immunology Greene Publishing Assoc. and Wiley Interscience N.Y. .

The antibodies of the present invention can be monospecific or multispecific e.g. bispecific trispecific or of greater multispecificity . Multispecific antibodies can be specific for different epitopes of a peptide of the present invention or can be specific for both a peptide of the present invention and a heterologous epitope such as a heterologous peptide or solid support material. See e.g. WO 93 17715 WO 92 08802 WO 91 00360 WO 92 05793 Tutt et al. 1991 J. Immunol. 147 60 69 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 474 893 4 714 681 4 925 648 5 573 920 5 601 819 and Kostelny et al. 1992 J. Immunol. 148 1547 1553 . For example the antibodies may be produced against a peptide containing repeated units of a kinase peptide sequence of the invention or they may be produced against a peptide containing two or more kinase peptide sequences of the invention or the combination thereof.

Moreover antibodies can also be prepared from any region of the peptides and kinase peptides of the invention. In addition if a polypeptide is a receptor protein e.g. a receptor kinase antibodies can be developed against an entire receptor or portions of the receptor for example an intracellular domain an extracellular domain the entire transmembrane domain specific transmembrane segments any of the intracellular or extracellular loops or any portions of these regions. Antibodies can also be developed against specific functional sites such as the site of ligand binding or sites that are glycosylated phosphorylated myristylated or amidated for example.

In the present invention the kinase peptides for generating antibodies preferably contain a sequence of at least 4 at least 5 at least 6 at least 7 more preferably at least 8 at least 9 at least 10 at least 11 at least 12 at least 13 at least 14 at least 15 and preferably between about 5 to about 50 amino acids in length more preferably between about 10 to about 30 amino acids in length even more preferably between about 10 to about 20 amino acids in length. The preferred kinase peptides are those derived from the RTK proteins listed in Table 1 above that is preferred kinase peptides have an amino acid sequence the same as or homologous to a portion of the sequence of the proteins listed in Table 1.

The monoclonal antibodies of the present invention can be prepared using well established methods. In one embodiment the monoclonal antibodies are prepared using hybridoma technology such as those described by Kohler and Milstein 1975 Nature 256 495. In a hybridoma method a mouse hamster or other appropriate host animal is typically immunized with an immunizing agent e.g. a kinase peptide of the invention to elicit lymphocytes that produce or are capable of producing antibodies that will specifically bind to the immunizing agent. Alternatively the lymphocytes may be immunized in vitro. The lymphocytes are then fused with an immortalized cell line using a suitable fusing agent such as polyethylene glycol to form a hybridoma cell Goding Monoclonal Antibodies Principles and Practice Academic Press 1986 pp. 59 1031. Immortalized cell lines are usually transformed mammalian cells particularly myeloma cells of rodent rabbit bovine and human origin. Usually rat or mouse myeloma cell lines are employed. The hybridoma cells may be cultured in a suitable culture medium that preferably contains one or more substances that inhibit the growth or survival of the unfused immortalized cells. For example if the parental cells lack the enzyme hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase HGPRT or HPRT the culture medium for the hybridomas typically will include hypoxanthine aminopterin and thymidine HAT medium which substances prevent the growth of HGPRT deficient cells.

Preferred immortalized cell lines are those that fuse efficiently support stable high level expression of antibody by the selected antibody producing cells and are sensitive to a medium such as HAT medium. More preferred immortalized cell lines are murine myeloma lines which can be obtained for instance from the Salk Institute Cell Distribution Center San Diego Calif. and the American Type Culture Collection Manassas Va. Human myeloma and mouse human heteromyeloma cell lines also have been described for the production of human monoclonal antibodies Kozbor J. Immunol. 1984 133 3001 Brodeur et al. Monoclonal Antibody Production Techniques and Applications Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1987 pp. 51 63 .

The culture medium in which the hybridoma cells are cultured can then be assayed for the presence of monoclonal antibodies. Preferably the binding specificity i.e. specific immunoreactivity of monoclonal antibodies produced by the hybridoma cells is determined by immunoprecipitation or by an in vitro binding assay such as radioimmunoassay RIA or enzyme linked immunoabsorbent assay ELISA . Such techniques and assays are known in the art. The binding specificity of the monoclonal antibody can for example be determined by the Scatchard analysis of Munson and Pollard 1980 Anal. Biochem. 107 220.

After the desired hybridoma cells are identified the clones may be subcloned by limiting dilution procedures and grown by standard methods Goding supra . Suitable culture media for this purpose include for example Dulbecco s Modified Eagle s Medium or RPMI 1640 medium. Alternatively the hybridoma cells may be grown in vivo as ascites in a mammal.

The monoclonal antibodies secreted by the subclones may be isolated or purified from the culture medium or ascites fluid by conventional immunoglobulin purification procedures such as for example protein A Sepharose hydroxylapatite chromatography gel electrophoresis dialysis or affinity chromatography.

The monoclonal antibodies can also be made by recombinant DNA methods such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. DNA encoding the monoclonal antibodies of the invention can be readily isolated and sequenced using conventional procedures e.g. by using oligonucleotide probes that are capable of binding specifically to genes encoding the heavy and light chains of murine antibodies . The hybridoma cells of the invention serve as a preferred source of such DNA. Once isolated the DNA can be placed into expression vectors which are then transfected into host cells such as simian COS cells Chinese hamster ovary CHO cells or myeloma cells that do not otherwise produce immunoglobulin protein to obtain the synthesis of monoclonal antibodies in the recombinant host cells. The DNA also can be modified for example by substituting the coding sequence for human heavy and light chain constant domains in place of the homologous murine sequences U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 or by covalently joining to the immunoglobulin coding sequence all or part of the coding sequence for a non immunoglobulin polypeptide. Such a non immunoglobulin polypeptide can be substituted for the constant domains of an antibody of the invention or can be substituted for the variable domains of one antigen combining site of an antibody of the invention to create a chimeric bivalent antibody.

Polyclonal antibodies of the invention can also be produced by various procedures well known in the art. For the production of polyclonal antibodies in vivo host animals such as rabbits rats mice sheep or goats are immunized with either free or carrier coupled peptides for example by intraperitoneal and or intradermal injection. Injection material is typically an emulsion containing about 100 g of peptide or carrier protein. Various adjuvants can also be used to increase the immunological response depending on the host species. Adjuvants include but are not limited to Freund s complete and incomplete mineral gels such as aluminum hydroxide surface active substances such as lysolecithin pluronic polyols polyanions peptides oil emulsions keyhole limpet hemocyanins dinitrophenol and potentially useful human adjuvants such as BCG bacille Calmette Guerin and . Such adjuvants are also well known in the art. Several booster injections may be needed for instance at intervals of about two weeks to provide a useful titer of antibody which can be detected for example by ELISA assay using free peptide adsorbed to a solid surface. The titer of antibodies in serum from an immunized animal can be increased by selection of antibodies e.g. by adsorption of the peptide onto a solid support and elution of the selected antibodies according to methods well known in the art.

Antibodies encompassed by the present invention can also be generated using various phage display methods known in the art. In phage display methods functional antibody domains are displayed on the surface of phage particles which carry the polynucleotide sequences encoding them. In a particular embodiment such phage can be utilized to display antigen binding domains expressed from a repertoire or combinatorial antibody library e.g. human or murine . Phage expressing an antigen binding domain that binds to the antigen of interest can be selected or identified with antigen e.g. using labeled antigen or antigen bound or captured onto a solid surface or bead. Phage used in these methods are typically filamentous phage including fd and M13 binding domains expressed from phage with Fab Fv or disulfide stabilized antibody domains recombinantly fused to either the phage polynucleotide III or polynucleotide VIII protein. Examples of phage display methods that can be used to make the antibodies of the present invention include those disclosed in Brinkman et al. 1995 J. Immunol. Methods 182 41 50 Ames et al. 1995 J. Immunol. Methods 184 177 186 Kettleborough et al. 1994 Eur. J. Immunol. 24 952 958 Persic et al. 1997 Gene 187 9 18 Burton et al. 1994 Advances in Immunology 57 191 280 PCT application No. PCT GB91 01134 PCT publications WO 90 02809 WO 91 10737 WO 92 01047 WO 92 18619 WO 93 11236 WO 95 15982 WO 95 20401 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 698 426 5 223 409 5 403 484 5 580 717 5 427 908 5 750 753 5 821 047 5 571 698 5 427 908 5 516 637 5 780 225 5 658 727 5 733 743 and 5 969 108 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

As described in the above references after phage selection the antibody coding regions from the phage can be isolated and used to generate whole antibodies including human antibodies or any other desired antigen binding fragment and expressed in any desired host including mammalian cells insect cells plant cells yeast and bacteria e.g. as described in detail below.

Examples of techniques that can be used to produce antibody fragments such as single chain Fvs and antibodies include those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 946 778 and 5 258 498 Huston et al. 1991 Methods in Enzymology 203 46 88 Shu et al. 1993 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90 7995 7999 and Skerra et al. 1988 Science 240 1038 1040 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

For some uses including the in vivo use of antibodies in humans and in vitro detection assays it may be preferable to use chimeric humanized or human antibodies. A chimeric antibody is a molecule in which different portions of the antibody are derived from different animal species such as antibodies having a variable region derived from a murine monoclonal immunoglobulin and a human immunoglobulin constant region. Methods for producing chimeric antibodies are known in the art. See e.g. Morrison 1985 Science 229 1202 Oi et al. 1986 BioTechniques 4 214 Gillies et al. 1989 J. Immunol. Methods 125 191 202 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 807 715 4 816 567 and 4 816 397 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety .

Humanized antibodies are antibody molecules from non human species that bind to the desired antigen and have one or more complementarity determining regions CDRs from the nonhuman species and framework regions from a human immunoglobulin molecule. Often framework residues in the human framework regions are substituted with corresponding residues from the CDR and framework regions of the donor antibody to alter preferably improve antigen binding. These framework substitutions are identified by methods well known in the art e.g. by modeling of the interactions of the CDR and framework residues to identify framework residues important for antigen binding and by sequence comparison to identify unusual framework residues at particular positions. See e.g. Queen et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 693 762 and 5 585 089 and Riechmann et al. 1988 Nature 332 323 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties . Antibodies can be humanized using a variety of techniques known in the art including for example CDR grafting EP 239 400 PCT publication WO 91 09967 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 225 539 5 530 101 and 5 585 089 veneering or resurfacing EP 592 106 EP 519 596 Padlan 1991 Molecular Immunology 28 4 5 489 498 Studnicka et al. 1994 Protein Engineering 7 6 805 814 Roguska et al. 1994 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91 969 973 and chain shuffling U.S. Pat. No. 5 565 332 .

Completely human antibodies are particularly desirable for therapeutic treatment of human patients so as to avoid or alleviate immune reaction to foreign protein. Human antibodies can be made by a variety of methods known in the art including the phage display methods described above using antibody libraries derived from human immunoglobulin sequences. See also U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 444 887 and 4 716 111 and PCT publications WO 98 46645 WO 98 50433 WO 98 24893 WO 98 16654 WO 96 34096 WO 96 33735 and WO 91 10741 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Human antibodies can also be produced using transgenic mice which are incapable of expressing functional endogenous immunoglobulins but which can express human immunoglobulin polynucleotides. For example the human heavy and light chain immunoglobulin polynucleotide complexes can be introduced randomly or by homologous recombination into mouse embryonic stem cells. Alternatively the human variable region constant region and diversity region may be introduced into mouse embryonic stem cells in addition to the human heavy and light chain polynucleotides. The mouse heavy and light chain immunoglobulin polynucleotides can be rendered nonfunctional separately or simultaneously with the introduction of human immunoglobulin loci by homologous recombination. In particular homozygous deletion of the J.sub.H region prevents endogenous antibody production. The modified embryonic stem cells are expanded and microinjected into blastocysts to produce chimeric mice. The chimeric mice are then bred to produce homozygous offspring which express human antibodies. The transgenic mice are immunized in the normal fashion with a selected antigen e.g. all or a portion of a polypeptide of the invention.

Thus using such a technique it is possible to produce useful human IgG IgA IgM IgD and IgE antibodies. For an overview of the technology for producing human antibodies see Lonberg and Huszar 1995 Intl. Rev. Immunol. 13 65 93. For a detailed discussion of the technology for producing human antibodies and human monoclonal antibodies and protocols for producing such antibodies see e.g. PCT publications WO 98 24893 WO 92 01047 WO 96 34096 WO 96 33735 European Patent No. 0 598 877 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 413 923 5 625 126 5 633 425 5 569 825 5 661 016 5 545 806 5 814 318 5 885 793 5 916 771 5 939 598 6 075 181 and 6 114 598 which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. In addition companies such as Abgenix Inc. Fremont Calif. Protein Design Labs Inc. Mountain View Calif. and Genpharm San Jose Calif. can be engaged to provide human antibodies directed against a selected antigen using technology similar to the above described technologies.

Once an antibody molecule of the invention has been produced by an animal a cell line chemically synthesized or recombinantly expressed it can be purified i.e. isolated by any method known in the art for the purification of an immunoglobulin or polypeptide molecule for example by chromatography e.g. ion exchange affinity particularly by affinity for the specific antigen Protein A and sizing column chromatography centrifugation differential solubility or by any other standard technique for the purification of proteins. In addition the antibodies of the present invention or fragments thereof can be fused to heterologous polypeptide sequences described herein or otherwise known in the art to facilitate purification.

In one embodiment the present invention provides antibodies that specifically immuoreact to a tyrosine kinase protein or fragment or variant thereof.

In one embodiment the invention provides a novel monoclonal antibody that specifically recognizes a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 6. The monoclonal antibodies are hereinafter referred to as anti receptor tyrosine kinase monoclonal antibodies RTK MAb .

The present invention also provides antibodies that specifically immuoreact to a MAPKAP kinase protein or fragment or variant thereof.

In one embodiment the invention provides a novel monoclonal antibody that specifically recognizes a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 7 11. The monoclonal antibodies are hereinafter referred to as anti receptor MAPKAP kinase monoclonal antibodies MAPKAP K MAb .

The present invention also provides antibodies that specifically immuoreact to a PI3 kinase protein or fragment or variant thereof.

In one embodiment the invention provides a novel monoclonal antibody that specifically recognizes a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 12 23. The monoclonal antibodies are hereinafter referred to as anti receptor phosphoinositide 3 kinase monoclonal antibodies PI3 kinase MAb .

The invention further provides a mixture containing two or more monoclonal antibodies produced as described above. In a preferred embodiment the mixture contains two or more monoclonal antibodies raised against different kinase peptides derived from the same kinase protein. In another preferred embodiment the mixture contains two or more monoclonal antibodies raised against different kinase peptides at least two of which are derived from different kinase proteins.

In one embodiment the antibody mixture contains two or more antibodies raised against peptides containing the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 6.

In another embodiment the antibody mixture contains two or more antibodies raised against peptides containing the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 7 11.

In yet another embodiment the mixture contains two or more antibodies raised against peptides containing the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 12 23.

In a preferred aspect the present invention comprises polyclonal antibodies raised against a mixture of two or more peptides derived from a kinase polypeptide or protein. The inventive polyclonal antibodies immunoreact with at least two up to an entire class of kinase polypeptides or proteins and thus are referred to as pan antibodies.

In one embodiment the present invention provides polyclonal antibodies that specifically immuoreact with at least about two to ten preferably at least about two to twenty more preferably at least about twenty to fifty up to entire class of tyrosine kinase proteins or fragments or variants thereof.

In one embodiment the invention provides novel polyclonal antibodies that specifically recognize and immunoreact with at least two sequences selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 6. The polyclonal antibodies are hereinafter referred to as anti receptor pan tyrosine kinase polyclonal antibodies pan RTK antibodies .

The present invention also provides polyclonal antibodies that specifically immuoreact with at least about two to ten preferably at least about two to twenty more preferably at least about twenty to fifty up to entire class of MAPKAP kinase proteins or fragments or variants thereof.

In one embodiment the invention provides antibodies that specifically recognize and immunoreact with at least two sequences selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 7 11. The polyclonal antibodies are hereinafter referred to as anti receptor pan MAPKAP kinase polyclonal antibodies pan MAPKAP K antibodies .

The present invention also provides polyclonal antibodies that specifically immuoreact with at least about two to ten preferably at least about two to twenty more preferably at least about twenty to fifty up to entire class of PI3 kinase proteins or fragments or variants thereof.

In one embodiment the invention provides antibodies that specifically recognize and immunoreact with at least two sequences selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 12 23. The polyclonal antibodies are hereinafter referred to as anti receptor pan phosphoinositide 3 kinase polyclonal antibodies pan PI3 kinase antibodies .

The invention further provides a mixture containing two or more polyclonal antibodies produced as described above. In a preferred embodiment the mixture contains two or more polyclonal antibodies raised against different kinase peptides derived from the same kinase protein. In another preferred embodiment the mixture contains two or more polyclonal antibodies raised against different kinase peptides at least two of which are derived from different kinase proteins.

In one embodiment the antibody mixture contains two or more pan antibodies raised against peptides containing the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 6.

In another embodiment the antibody mixture contains two or more antibodies raised against peptides containing the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 7 11.

In yet another embodiment the mixture contains two or more antibodies raised against peptides containing the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 12 23.

In one embodiment two or more kinase peptides derived from the same or different kinase proteins are mixed prior to antibody production e.g. injection into an animal. The antibodies produced thus are specifically immunoreactive to the two or more kinase peptides in the mixture.

In one embodiment two or more peptides containing the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 6 are mixed before antibody production.

In another embodiment two or more peptides containing the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 7 11 are mixed before antibody production.

In yet another embodiment two or more peptides containing the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 12 23 are mixed before antibody production.

In a preferred embodiment the antibodies contained in a mixture or the antibodies raised against a peptide mixture specifically immunoreact with two or more and up to the entire class of RTK proteins thus referred as pan RTK antibodies. Preferably the pan RTK antibodies react with most or all human and murine RTKs e.g. Eph receptors and VEGF receptors . The pan RTK antibodies may also react with a subset of nonreceptor tyrosine kinase proteins that contain the same epitopes e.g. JAK family members SRC family members FAK PTK2 ABL and ARG kinases .

In another embodiment the antibodies contained in a mixture or the antibodies raised against a peptide mixture specifically immunoreact with two or more and up to the entire class of MAPKAP kinase proteins thus referred as pan MAPKAP kinase antibodies. Preferably the pan MAPKAP kinase antibodies react with most or all human and murine MAPKAP kinases e.g. MAPKAP kinases 1 2 3 4 and 5 . The pan MAPKAP kinase antibodies may also react with a subset of nonreceptor serine threonine kinases.

In another embodiment the antibodies contained in a mixture or the antibodies raised against a peptide mixture specifically immunoreact with two or more and up to the entire class of PI3 kinase proteins thus referred as pan PI3 kinase antibodies. Preferably the pan PI3 kinase antibodies react with most or all human and murine PI3 kinases. The pan p13 kinase antibodies may also react with nonreceptor serine threonine kinases.

Preferred specifically immunoreactive antibodies include those with a dissociation constant or Kd of less than about 5 10 1 10 5.times 10 1 10 5 10 or 1 10. More preferred specifically immunoreactive antibodies include those with a dissociation constant or Kd less than about 5 10 1 10 5 10 1 10 5 10 1 10 5 10 or 1 10. Even more preferred specifically immunoreactive antibodies include those with a dissociation constant or Kd of less than about 5 10 1 10 5 10 1 10 5 10 10 10 5 10 1 10 5 10 1 10 5 10 1 10 5 10 or 1 10.

As used herein the term nucleic acid refers to polynucleotides such as deoxyribonucleic acid DNA and where appropriate ribonucleic acid RNA . The term should also be understood to include as equivalents analogs of either RNA or DNA made from nucleotide analogs and as applicable to the embodiment being described single sense or antisense and double stranded polynucleotides. ESTs chromosomes cDNAs mRNAs and rRNAs are representative examples of molecules that may be referred to as nucleic acids. The term nucleic acid is not limited by length thus encompasses polynucleotide and oligonucleotide. A nucleic acid encoding a kinase peptide as used herein is preferably between about 6 to about 300 nucleotides in length more preferably between about 15 to about 150 nucleotides in length and more preferably between about 30 to about 90 nucleotides in length and more preferably between about 30 to about 60 nucleotides in length.

In one embodiment the invention provides a nucleic acid encoding a peptide of the invention or a complementary sequence thereof.

In another embodiment the invention provides a mixture containing two or more nucleic acids as described above.

As used herein the term stringent conditions refers to conditions where only nucleic acid sequences which are very similar to each other will hybridize. The precise conditions determining the stringency of a particular hybridization include not only the ionic strength temperature and the concentration of destabilizing agents such as formamide but also on factors such as the length of the nucleic acid sequences their base composition the percent of mismatched base pairs between the two sequences and the frequency of occurrence of subsets of the sequences e.g. small stretches of repeats within other non identical sequences. The conditions generally refer to hybridization at either 1 1 SSC 10 SSC 3 M NaCl 0.3 M Na citrate.2HO 88 g liter pH to 7.0 with 1 M HCl 1 SDS sodium dodecyl sulfate 0.1 2 mg ml denatured salmon sperm DNA at 65 C. 2 1 SSC 50 formamide 1 SDS 0.1 2 mg ml denatured salmon sperm DNA at 42 C. 3 1 bovine serum albumen fraction V 1 mM Na.EDTA 0.5 M NaHPO pH 7.2 1 M NaHPO 134 g NaHPO7HO 4 ml 85 H.sub.3POper liter 7 SDS 0.1 2 mg ml denatured salmon sperm DNA at 65 C. 4 50 formamide 5 SSC 0.02 M Tris HCl pH 7.6 1 Denhardt s solution 100 10 g Ficoll 400 10 g polyvinylpyrrolidone 10 g bovine serum albumin fraction V water to 500 ml 10 dextran sulfate 1 SDS 0.1 2 mg ml denatured salmon sperm DNA at 42 C. 5 5 SSC 5 Denhardt s solution 1 SDS 100 g ml denatured salmon sperm DNA at 65 C. or 6 5 SSC 5 Denhardt s solution 50 formamide 1 SDS 100 g ml denatured salmon sperm DNA at 42 C. with high stringency washes of either 1 0.3 0.1 SSC 0.1 SDS at 65 C. or 2 1 mM NaEDTA 40 mM NaHPO pH 7.2 1 SDS at 65 C. The above conditions are intended to be used for DNA DNA hybrids of 50 base pairs or longer. Where the hybrid is believed to be less than 18 base pairs in length the hybridization and wash temperatures should be 5 10 C. below that of the calculated Tof the hybrid where Tin C. 2 the number of A and T bases 4 the number of G and C bases . For hybrids believed to be about 18 to about 49 base pairs in length the Tin C. 81.5 C. 16.6 logM 0.41 G C 0.61 formamide 500 L where M is the molarity of monovalent cations e.g. Na and L is the length of the hybrid in base pairs.

The invention also provides a probe primer comprising an isolated oligonucleotide wherein the oligonucleotide comprises a region of nucleotide sequence which hybridizes under stringent conditions to at least 12 consecutive nucleotides of a nucleic acid coding a kinase peptide of the invention or their complementary sequences thereof or naturally occurring mutants thereof.

In one embodiment the invention provides a mixture containing two or more probes primers as described above.

As used herein the term a probe primer refers to a nucleic acid which binds to a target nucleic acid of complementary sequence through one or more types of chemical bonds usually through complementary base pairing e.g. hydrogen bond formation. As used herein a probe primer may include natural i.e. A G C or T or modified on bases 7 deazaguanosine inosine etc. or on sugar moiety. In addition the bases in a probe primer may be joined by a linkage other than a phosphodiester bond so long as it does not interfere with hybridization. Thus for example probes primers may be peptide nucleic acids in which the constituent bases are joined by peptide bonds rather than phosphodiester linkages. It will be understood by one of skill in the art that probes primers may bind target sequences lacking complete complementarity with the probe sequence depending upon the stringency of the hybridization conditions. The probes primers may be directly or indirectly labeled with a detectable label by methods known in the art. The primer is capable of initiating strand elongation. By assaying for the presence absence or the level of the probe binding or primer elongation product one can detect the presence absence or the level of the target nucleic acid. Preferably the probe primer of the present invention is between about 8 to 100 nucleotides in length more preferably between about 12 to 50 nucleotides more preferably between about 12 to 35 nucleotides in length.

As used herein the term detectable label refers to a composition detectable by spectroscopic photochemical biochemical immunochemical or chemical means. The detectable label can be selected e.g. from a group consisting of radioisotopes fluorescent compounds enzymes and enzyme co factors.

The present invention also provides nucleic acids encoding an antibody of the invention including molecules comprising or alternatively consisting of antibody fragments or variants thereof . In a specific embodiment a nucleic acid of the invention encodes an antibody including molecules comprising or alternatively consisting of antibody fragments or variants thereof comprising or alternatively consisting of a Vdomain having an amino acid sequence of any one of the Vdomains of a heavy chain expressed by an anti kinase protein antibody expressing cell line of the invention e.g. a hybridoma and a Vdomain having an amino acid sequence of a light chain expressed by an anti kinase protein antibody expressing cell line of the invention. In another embodiment a nucleic acid molecule of the invention encodes an antibody including molecules comprising or alternatively consisting of antibody fragments or variants thereof comprising or alternatively consisting of a Vdomain having an amino acid sequence of any one of the Vdomains of a heavy chain expressed by an anti kinase protein antibody expressing cell line of the invention or a Vdomain having an amino acid sequence of a light chain expressed by an anti kinase protein antibody expressing cell line of the invention.

Two or more nucleic acids encoding an antibody of the invention may be provided in a mixture. Standard techniques known to those of skill in the art can be used to introduce mutations in the nucleotide sequence encoding a molecule of the invention including for example site directed mutapolynucleotidesis and PCR mediated mutapolynucleotidesis which result in amino acid substitutions. This can be used to prepare desired antibodies e.g. humanized antibodies as described herein. Also preferably the variants including derivatives encode less than 50 amino acid substitutions less than 40 amino acid substitutions less than 30 amino acid substitutions less than 25 amino acid substitutions less than 20 amino acid substitutions less than 15 amino acid substitutions less than 10 amino acid substitutions less than 5 amino acid substitutions less than 4 amino acid substitutions less than 3 amino acid substitutions or less than 2 amino acid substitutions relative to the reference Vdomain VCDR1 VCDR2 VCDR3 Vdomain VCDR1 VCDR2 or VCDR3.

A conservative amino acid substitution is one in which the amino acid residue is replaced with an amino acid residue having a side chain with a similar charge. Families of amino acid residues having side chains with similar charges have been defined in the art. These families include amino acids with basic side chains e.g. lysine arginine histidine acidic side chains e.g. aspartic acid glutamic acid uncharged polar side chains e.g. glycine asparagine glutamine serine threonine tyrosine cysteine nonpolar side chains e.g. alanine valine leucine isoleucine proline phenylalanine methionine tryptophan beta branched side chains e.g. threonine valine isoleucine and aromatic side chains e.g. tyrosine phenylalanine tryptophan histidine . Alternatively mutations can be introduced randomly along all or part of the coding sequence such as by saturation mutapolynucleotidesis. The resultant mutants can be screened for biological activity to identify mutants that retain activity.

Nucleic acids encoding epitopes can also be recombined with a second nucleic acid as an epitope tag e.g. the hemagglutinin HA tag or flag tag to aid in detection and purification of the expressed polypeptide. For example a system for the ready purification of non denatured fusion proteins expressed in human cell lines has been described by Janknecht et al. 1991 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88 8972 897 . In this system the second nucleic acid is subcloned into a vaccinia recombination plasmid such that the open reading frame of the polynucleotide is translationally fused to an amino terminal tag having six histidine residues. The tag serves as a matrix binding domain for the fusion protein. Extracts from cells infected with the recombinant vaccinia virus are loaded onto an Ni.sup.2 nitriloacetic acid agarose column and histidine tagged proteins are selectively eluted with imidazole containing buffers.

If a clone containing a nucleic acid encoding a particular antibody is not available but the sequence of the antibody molecule is known a nucleic acid encoding the immunoglobulin can be chemically synthesized or obtained from a suitable source e.g. an antibody cDNA library or a cDNA library generated from or a nucleic acid preferably poly A RNA isolated from any tissue or cells expressing the antibody such as hybridoma cells selected to express an antibody of the invention by PCR amplification using synthetic primers hybridizable to the 3 and 5 ends of the sequence. Alternatively cloning using an oligonucleotide probe specific for the particular nucleic acid sequence to be identified e.g. a cDNA clone from a cDNA library that encodes the desired antibody can be employed. Amplified nucleic acids generated by PCR can then be cloned into replicable cloning vectors using any method well known in the art.

The kinase peptides nucleic acids encoding the kinase peptides antibodies specifically immunoreactive with the kinase peptides as well as nucleic acids of the present invention are useful for research and for disease detection diagnosis prognosis and treatment.

As nonlimiting examples antibodies of the present invention can be used to purify detect and target the protein tyrosine kinase polypeptides of the present invention including both in vitro and in vivo diagnostic detection screening and or therapeutic methods. For example the probes primers and antibodies can be used in immunoassays for qualitatively and quantitatively measuring levels of kinase biomarkers in biological samples. See e.g. Harlow et al. Antibodies A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 2nd Ed. 1988 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety .

Probes primers and antibodies of the invention can be used as a part of a diagnostic test kit for identifying dysfunctions associated with mis expression of a kinase protein containing the sequence of the kinase peptide of the invention such as for detecting in a sample of cells isolated from a patient a level of a kinase protein a level of a nucleic acid encoding a kinase protein e.g. measuring a kinase mRNA level in a cell or determining whether a genomic kinase gene has been mutated or deleted. These probes primers of the invention can also be used as a part of antisense therapy which refers to administration or in situ generation of oligonucleotide probes or their derivatives which specifically hybridize e.g. bind under cellular conditions with the cellular mRNA and or genomic DNA encoding one or more of the subject kinase proteins so as to inhibit expression of that protein e.g. by inhibiting transcription and or translation. The antibodies of the invention can also be used for therapies as described below.

Diagnosis The kinases of the present invention may serve as biomarkers for 1 diagnosis of diseases e.g. cancer autoimmune disease diabetes inflammatory disease cardiovascular diseases and neurological disorders 2 prognosis of diseases e.g. monitoring disease progression or regression from one biological state to another 3 determination of susceptibility risk of a subject to diseases or 4 evaluation of the efficacy of a treatment for a disease.

As used herein a biomarker is a molecule the level of whose nucleic acid or protein product has a quantitatively differential concentration or level with respect to an aspect of a biological state in a subject. The level of the biomarker can be measured on both the nucleic acid level and the polypeptide level. At the nucleic acid level a nucleic acid gene or a transcript which is transcribed from any part of the subject s chromosomal and extrachromosomal genome including for example the mitochondrial genome may be measured. Preferably an RNA transcript more preferably an RNA transcript includes a primary transcript a spliced transcript an alternatively spliced transcript or an mRNA of the biomarker is measured. At the polypeptide level a prepropeptide a propeptide a mature peptide or a secreted peptide of the biomarker may be measured. A biomarker can be used either solely or in conjunction with one or more other identified biomarkers so as to allow correlation to the biological state of interest as defined herein.

Specific biomarkers of the present invention include target kinases described above e.g. in Tables 1 4. Preferably the biomarkers are receptor kinases e.g. RTKs MAPKAP kinases and PI3 kinases.

The term biological state is used herein to mean the result of the occurrence of a series of biological processes. As the biological processes change relative to each other the biological state also undergoes changes. One measurement of a biological state is the level of activity of biologic variables such as biomarkers parameters and or processes at a specified time and under specified experimental or environmental conditions. A biological state can include for example the state of an individual cell an organ a tissue and or a multi cellular organism. A biological state can be measured in samples taken from a normal subject or a disease subject. Therefore measuring the biological state at different time intervals may indicate the state of disease progression in a subject. The term biological state thus include a state that is indicative of a disease e.g. diagnosis a state that is indicative of the progression or regression of a disease prognosis a state that is indicative of the susceptibility risk of a subject to a disease and a state that is indicative of the efficacy of a treatment for a disease.

The term biological state is also used herein to refer to clinical signs and diagnostic criteria associated with a disease state. The biological state of a disease state can be quantified with measurements of biological variables. For example for the disease state of diabetes the biological variables can include fasting plasma glucose casual plasma glucose or oral glucose tolerance test OGTT value.

In one embodiment the biological state can be mathematically defined by the values of x and p at a given time as known in the art. Once a biological state of the model is mathematically specified numerical integration of the above equation using a computer determines for example the time evolution of the biological variables x t and hence the evolution of the biological state over time.

The term reference pattern of the disease state is used herein to mean a set of biological variables that are measured in a diseased biological system under specified experimental conditions. For example the measurements may be performed on blood samples at some specified time following a particular glucose or insulin stimulus.

Alternatively measurements may be performed on biopsy samples or cell cultures derived from a diseased human or animal. Examples of diseased biological systems include cellular or animal models of the disease or a patient.

The term baseline level or a control level of biomarker expression or activity refers to the level against which biomarker expression in the test sample can be compared. In some embodiments the baseline level can be a normal level i.e. level in a sample from a normal subject . Therefore it can be determined based on the control or baseline level of biomarker expression or biological activity whether a sample to be evaluated for disease cell growth has a measurable increase decrease or substantially no change in biomarker expression as compared to the baseline level. The term negative control used in reference to a baseline level of biomarker expression typically refers to a baseline level established in a sample from the subject or from a population of individuals which is believed to be normal i.e. non tumorous not undergoing neoplastic transformation not exhibiting inappropriate cell growth . In another embodiment a baseline can be indicative of a positive diagnosis of disease. Such a baseline level also referred to herein as a positive control baseline refers to a level of biomarker expression or biological activity established in a sample from the subject another subject or a population of individuals wherein the sample was believed based on data for that cell sample to have the disease i.e. tumorous exhibiting inappropriate cell growth cancerous . In yet another embodiment the baseline level can be established from a previous sample from the subject being tested so that the disease progression or regression of a subject can be monitored over time and or so that the efficacy of a given therapeutic protocol can be evaluated over time.

Preferably the method for establishing a baseline level of biomarker expression is selected based on the sample type the tissue or organ from which the sample is obtained the status of the subject to be evaluated and as discussed above the focus or goal of the assay e.g. diagnosis staging monitoring . Preferably the method is the same method that will be used to evaluate the sample in the subject. In a most preferred embodiment the baseline level is established using the same cell type as the cell to be evaluated.

In one embodiment the baseline level of biomarker expression or biological activity is established in an autologous control sample obtained from the subject. The autologous control sample can be a sample of isolated cells a tissue sample or a bodily fluid sample and is preferably a cell sample or tissue sample. According to the present invention and as used in the art the term autologous means that the sample is obtained from the same subject from which the sample to be evaluated is obtained. The control sample should be of or from the same cell type and preferably the control sample is obtained from the same organ tissue or bodily fluid as the sample to be evaluated such that the control sample serves as the best possible baseline for the sample to be evaluated. In one embodiment when the goal of the assay is diagnosis of abnormal cell growth it is desirable to take the control sample from a population of cells a tissue or a bodily fluid which is believed to represent a normal cell tissue or bodily fluid or at a minimum a cell or tissue which is least likely to be undergoing or potentially be predisposed to develop tumor cell growth. For example if the sample to be evaluated is an area of apparently abnormal cell growth such as a tumorous mass the control sample is preferably obtained from a section of apparently normal tissue i.e. an area other than and preferably a reasonable distance from the tumorous mass in the tissue or organ where the tumorous mass is growing. In one aspect if a tumor to be evaluated is in the colon the test sample would be obtained from the suspected tumor mass and the control sample would be obtained from a different section of the colon which is separate from the area where the mass is located and which does not show signs of uncontrolled cellular proliferation.

A difference in kinase expression level between a test sample and a baseline either measured at the nucleic acid or the peptide level is considered positive for the particular purpose of the test if the difference is at least 20 30 40 50 preferably at least 70 more preferably 80 90 or even more preferably 2 fold 3 fold 4 fold 5 fold 10 fold or more.

As used herein the terms cancer tumor cancerous and malignant refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma including adenocarcinoma lymphoma blastoma melanoma sarcoma and leukemia. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer lung adenocarcinoma lung squamous cell carcinoma gastrointestinal cancer Hodgkin s and non Hodgkin s lymphoma pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer glioma ovarian cancer liver cancer such as hepatic carcinoma and hepatoma bladder cancer breast cancer colon cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney cancer such as renal cell carcinoma and Wilms tumors basal cell carcinoma melanoma prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer testicular cancer esophageal cancer and various types of head and neck cancer.

As used herein an autoimmune disease refers to a disease or disorder arising from and directed against an individual s own tissues. Examples of autoimmune diseases or disorders include but are not limited to arthritis rheumatoid arthritis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis psoriatic arthritis psoriasis dermatitis polymyositis dermatomyositis toxic epidermal necrolysis systemic scleroderma and sclerosis responses associated with inflammatory bowel disease Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis respiratory distress syndrome adult respiratory distress syndrome ARDS meningitis encephalitis uveitis colitis glomerulonephritis allergic conditions eczema asthma conditions involving infiltration of T cells and chronic inflammatory responses atherosclerosis autoimmune myocarditis leukocyte adhesion deficiency systemic lupus erythematosus SLE juvenile onset diabetes multiple sclerosis allergic encephalomyelitis immune responses associated with acute and delayed hypersensitivity mediated by cytokines and T lymphocytes tuberculosis sarcoidosis granulomatosis including Wegener s granulomatosis agranulocytosis vasculitis including ANCA aplastic anemia Diamond Blackfan anemia immune hemolytic anemia including autoimmune hemolytic anemia AIHA pernicious anemia pure red cell aplasia PRCA Factor VIII deficiency hemophilia A autoimmune neutropenia pancytopenia leukopenia diseases involving leukocyte diapedesis central nervous system CNS inflammatory disorders multiple organ injury syndrome mysathenia gravis antigen antibody complex mediated diseases anti glomerular basement membrane disease anti phospholipid antibody syndrome allergic neuritis Bechet disease Castleman s syndrome Goodpasture s syndrome Lambert Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome Reynaud s syndrome Sjorgen s syndrome Stevens Johnson syndrome solid organ transplant rejection graft versus host disease GVHD pemphigoid bullous pemphigus autoimmune polyendocrinopathies Reiter s disease stiff man syndrome giant cell arteritis immune complex nephritis IgA nephropathy IgM polyneuropathies or IgM mediated neuropathy idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ITP thrombotic throbocytopenic purpura TTP autoimmune thrombocytopenia autoimmune disease of the testis and ovary including autoimune orchitis and oophoritis primary hypothyroidism autoimmune endocrine diseases including autoimmune thyroiditis chronic thyroiditis Hashimoto s Thyroiditis subacute thyroiditis idiopathic hypothyroidism Addison s disease Grave s disease autoimmune polyglandular syndromes or polyglandular endocrinopathy syndromes Type I diabetes also referred to as insulin dependent diabetes mellitus IDDM and Sheehan s syndrome autoimmune hepatitis lymphoid interstitial pneumonitis HIV bronchiolitis obliterans non transplant vs NSIP Guillain Barre syndrome large vessel vasculitis including polymyalgia rheumatica and giant cell Takayasu s arteritis medium vessel vasculitis including Kawasaki s disease and polyarteritis nodosa ankylosing spondylitis Berger s disease IgA nephropathy rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis primary biliary cirrhosis Celiac sprue gluten enteropathy cryoglobulinemia amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS coronary artery disease etc.

As used herein an inflammatory disease or condition refers to any disease or condition that causes increased inflammation in an individual e.g. immune system disorders infectious diseases or cancer. In some embodiments the inflammatory disease or condition is a chronic inflammatory disease or condition. A chronic inflammatory disease or condition is an inflammatory condition that does not resolve after a period of weeks months or longer. Chronic inflammatory conditions can follow an acute inflammatory condition or for some diseases or conditions can occur in the absence of an acute inflammatory disease or condition. An inflammatory disease or condition includes the following autoimmune system diseases including systemic lupus erythematosus lupus or SLE rheumatoid arthritis vasculitis and its specific forms such as Wegener s granulomatosis scleroderma myositis serum sickness transplant rejection graft versus host disease sickle cell anemia gout complications of pregnancy such as pre eclampsia multiple sclerosis cardiovascular disease infectious diseases such as hepatitis virus infection including hepatitis A B C and D HIV infection West Nile virus Lyme disease etc. Each of these diseases or conditions can also be described as chronic inflammatory diseases or conditions.

The term neurological disorder refers to a group of disorders in which one or more regions of a subject s brain operate at frequencies which are different from the predetermined frequency for that region of the brain or from the predetermined frequencies of the other regions of the subject s brain. Examples of neurological disorders include but are not limited to traumatic brain injury post traumatic stress disorder post stroke paralysis post traumatic brain injury paralysis cerebral palsy headache depression post chemotherapy cognitive mood and fatigue disorder fibromyalgia memory loss coma attention deficit disorder etc.

As used herein the term efficacy refers to either inhibition to some extent of cell growth causing or contributing to a cell proliferative disorder or the inhibition to some extent of the production of factors e.g. growth factors causing or contributing to a cell proliferative disorder. A therapeutic efficacy refers to relief of one or more of the symptoms of a cell proliferative disorder. In reference to the treatment of a cancer a therapeutic efficacy refers to one or more of the following 1 reduction in the number of cancer cells 2 reduction in tumor size 3 inhibition i.e. slowing to some extent preferably stopping of cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs 3 inhibition i.e. slowing to some extent preferably stopping of tumor metastasis 4 inhibition to some extent of tumor growth and or 5 relieving to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the disorder. In reference to the treatment of a cell proliferative disorder other than a cancer a therapeutic efficacy refers to 1 either inhibition to some extent of the growth of cells causing the disorder 2 the inhibition to some extent of the production of factors e.g. growth factors causing the disorder and or 3 relieving to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the disorder.

As used herein the term a sample or a biological sample refers to a whole organism or a subset of its tissues cells or component parts e.g. body fluids including but not limited to blood mucus lymphatic fluid synovial fluid cerebrospinal fluid saliva amniotic fluid amniotic cord blood urine vaginal fluid and semen . A sample or a biological sample further refers to a homogenate lysate or extract prepared from a whole organism or a subset of its tissues cells or component parts or a fraction or portion thereof including but not limited to for example plasma serum spinal fluid lymph fluid the external sections of the skin respiratory intestinal and genitourinary tracts tears saliva milk blood cells tumors organs. Most often the sample has been removed from an animal but the term a sample or a biological sample can also refer to cells or tissue analyzed in vivo i.e. without removal from animal. Typically a sample or a biological sample will contain cells from the animal but the term can also refer to non cellular biological material such as non cellular fractions of blood saliva or urine that can be used to measure the cancer associated polynucleotide or polypeptides levels. A sample or a biological sample further refers to a medium such as a nutrient broth or gel in which an organism has been propagated which contains cellular components such as proteins or nucleic acid molecules.

The target kinase biomarkers may originate from different parts of the cell and preferably be cell surface receptor kinases although they can also be intracellular kinases. The kinases may be over expressed or under expressed in a sample. The level of the target kinase gene or protein can be determined by conventional methods such as expression assays to determine the level of expression of the gene by biochemical assays to determine the level of the gene product or by immunoassays using antibodies reactive to the kinase. Examples of detection methods include those known to those of skill in the art or taught in numerous texts and laboratory manuals see for example Ausubel et al. 1995 Short Protocols in Molecular Biology 3rd Ed. John Wiley Sons Inc. . If appropriate the target kinase can be identified as a cell surface molecule in tissue or in a bodily fluid such as serum.

For example methods of detecting nucleic acid of a kinase biomarker include but are not limited to RNA fingerprinting Northern blotting polymerase chain reaction ligase chain reaction Qbeta replicase isothermal amplification method strand displacement amplification transcription based amplification systems nuclease protection SI nuclease or RNAse protection assays as well as methods disclosed in WO88 10315 WO89 06700 PCT US87 00880 PCT US89 01025.

For example detecting the expression level of a nucleic acid of a kinase biomarker may include i providing a probe primer of the invention ii contacting the probe primer with a sample and iii detecting by hybridization of the probe primer to nucleic acids in the sample the presence and absence or the level of a kinase biomarker nucleic acid. The method may also include amplifying the nucleic acid of the kinase biomarker before detecting. For instance the probe primer can be employed in a polymerase chain reaction PCR or in a ligation chain reaction LCR . A difference in the level of expression between a test sample e.g. from a patient subject and a control sample e.g. from a normal subject is indicative of the biological state of interest. The probe primer used may also be a mixture of two or more probes primers as described above.

The nucleic acid detection method also includes detecting in a sample of the subject the presence or absence of a genetic lesion spanning a region represented by a nucleic acid encoding a kinase peptide of the invention. Detecting the genetic lesion includes ascertaining the existence of at least one of i deletion of one or more nucleotides from a kinase gene an addition of one or more nucleotides to the gene a substitution of one or more nucleotides of the gene a gross chromosomal rearrangement of the gene an alteration in the level of a messenger RNA transcript of the gene the presence of a non wild type splicing pattern of a messenger RNA transcript of the gene a non wild type level of the protein and or an aberrant level of a kinase protein.

In alternate embodiments the level of a kinase protein is detected in an immunoassay using an antibody of the present invention which is specifically immunoreactive with the kinase protein. Preferably the method of detection comprises contacting the sample with an antibody of the present invention including an antibody mixture and determining the presence and absence or the level of a kinase biomarker protein. A difference in the level of expression between a test sample e.g. from a patient subject and a control sample e.g. from a normal subject is indicative of the biological state of interest. The antibody used may also be a mixture of two or more antibodies or antibodies raised against a mixture of kinase peptides as described above.

Various methods known in the art for detecting specific antibody antigen binding can be used. Exemplary immunoassays which can be conducted according to the invention include fluorescence polarization immunoassay FPIA fluorescence immunoassay FIA enzyme immunoassay EIA nephelometric inhibition immunoassay NIA enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA and radioimmunoassay RIA . Zola Monoclonal Antibodies A Manual of Techniques pp. 147 158 CRC Press Inc. 1987 . A detectable label can be attached to the subject antibodies and is selected so as to meet the needs of various uses of the method which are often dictated by the availability of assay equipment and compatible immunoassay procedures. Appropriate labels include without limitation radionuclides e.g. .sup.125I .sup.131I .sup.35S .sup.3H or .sup.32P enzymes e.g. alkaline phosphatase horseradish peroxidase luciferase or .beta. glactosidase fluorescent moieties or proteins e.g. fluorescein rhodamine phycoerythrin GFP or BFP or luminescent moieties e.g. Qdot nanoparticles supplied by the Quantum Dot Corporation Palo Alto Calif. . General techniques to be used in performing the various immunoassays noted above are known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

In another embodiment of the invention an antibody of the invention i.e. the primary antibody needs not be labeled and the presence thereof can be detected using a labeled second antibody which binds to the primary antibody.

Antibodies can be arrayed on a substrate and detection of biomarkers may be performed by antibody array method for example as described in an application by the same inventor entitled Antibody Protein Analysis Chip hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The antibodies can also be used for in vivo diagnostic assays such as in vivo imaging. Generally the antibody is labeled with a radionuclide such as .sup. 111In sup.99Tc sup.14C .sup.131I .sup.125I or .sup.3H so that the cells or tissue of interest can be localized using immunoscintiography. The antibody may also be used as staining reagent in pathology following techniques well known in the art.

One embodiment of the present invention is a method for the diagnosis of a cancer that includes determining the level of a biomarker selected from any of the genes or products encoded thereby listed in Tables 1 4 in a test sample. In this method the level of the biomarker is indicative of the presence of cancer cells. The presence of the biomarker at an increased level as compared to a normal baseline control is an indication of the presence of a cancer a possible predisposition to such cancer or a susceptibility to an anti cancer therapeutic treatment. The level of the biomarker can be determined by conventional methods such as expression assays to determine the level of expression of the gene using the probes primers or mixtures thereof provided by the invention by biochemical assays to determine the level of the gene product or by immunoassays. In one embodiment of this method the level of the biomarker can be determined by identifying the biomarker as a cell surface molecule in tissue or by detecting the biomarker in soluble form in a bodily fluid such as serum that can be immobilized. The biomarker level can be determined by contacting a patient test sample with an antibody or a fragment thereof that binds specifically to the biomarker and determining whether the anti biomarker antibody or fragment has bound to the biomarker. The biomarker level can be determined by using a first monoclonal antibody that binds specifically to the biomarker and a second antibody that binds to the first antibody. This method can be used to determine the prognosis for cancer in the patient or to determine the susceptibility of the patient to a therapeutic treatment.

A further embodiment of the present invention is a method for the diagnosis of a tumor or the monitoring of a tumor growth or regression or a tumor therapy in a patient. The methods include determining the level of a biomarker in a patient sample wherein the biomarker is selected from any of the genes or products encoded thereby listed in Tables 1 4.

The present invention further provides kits for disease diagnosis prognosis risk assessment and or treatment efficacy determination. Such kits are useful in a clinical setting for use in diagnosing a patent for a disease monitoring the disease progression testing patient s samples e.g. biopsied for example to determine or predict if the patient s disease e.g. cancer will be resistant or sensitive to a given treatment or therapy with a drug compound chemotherapy agent or biological treatment agent. Provided in the kit are the predictor set comprising a nucleic acid or a nucleic acid mixture of the invention or an antibody or an antibody mixture of the invention. The kits may encompass desired reagents for the specific detection method to be used e.g. nucleic acid assays and immunoassays as described above and known in the art.

The kit preferably contains any means of detecting the expression or activity of a biomarker of the present invention in a test sample and preferably includes a probe PCR primers or a mixture of nucleic acids of the invention or an antibody a mixture of antibodies of the invention antigen binding peptide or fragment thereof that binds to a biomarker. The kit can include any reagent needed to perform a diagnostic method envisioned herein. The antibody or fragment thereof can be conjugated to another unit for example a marker or immobilized to a solid carrier substrate . The kit can also contain a second antibody for the detection of biomarker antibody complexes. In one embodiment the kit can contain a means for detecting a control marker characteristic of a cell type in the test sample. The antibody or fragment thereof may be present in free form or immobilized to a substrate such as a plastic dish a test tube a test rod and so on. The kit can also include suitable reagents for the detection of and or for the labeling of positive or negative controls wash solutions dilution buffers and the like as well as instructions.

More specifically according to the present invention a means for detecting biomarker expression or biological activity can be any suitable reagent that can be used in a method for detection of biomarker expression or biological activity as described previously herein. Such reagents include but are not limited to a probe or primer or a mixture of nucleic acids of the invention that hybridizes under stringent hybridization conditions to a kinase biomarker or a fragment thereof including to a biomarker specific regulatory region in the biomarker encoding gene RT PCR primers for amplification of mRNA encoding the biomarker or a fragment thereof and or an antibody or a mixture of antibodies of the invention antigen binding fragment thereof or other antigen binding peptide that selectively binds to the biomarker.

The means for detecting a biomarker and or a control marker of the assay kit of the present invention can be conjugated to a detectable tag or detectable label. Such a tag can be any suitable tag which allows for detection of the reagents used to detect the biomarker or control marker and includes but is not limited to any composition or label detectable by spectroscopic photochemical biochemical immunochemical electrical optical or chemical means as described herein and known in the art.

In addition the means for detecting of the assay kit of the present invention can be immobilized on a substrate. Such a substrate can include any suitable substrate for immobilization of a detection reagent such as would be used in any of the previously described methods of detection. Briefly a substrate suitable for immobilization of a means for detecting includes any solid support such as any solid organic biopolymer or inorganic support that can form a bond with the means for detecting without significantly effecting the activity and or ability of the detection means to detect the desired target molecule. Exemplary organic solid supports include polymers such as polystyrene nylon phenol formaldehyde resins acrylic copolymers e.g. polyacrylamide stabilized intact whole cells and stabilized crude whole cell membrane homogenates. Exemplary biopolymer supports include cellulose polydextrans e.g. Sephadex agarose collagen and chitin. Exemplary inorganic supports include glass beads porous and nonporous stainless steel metal oxides e.g. porous ceramics such as ZrO.sub.2 TiO.sub.2 Al.sub.2O.sub.3 and NiO and sand.

The invention provides a method for modulating one or more of growth differentiation or survival of a cell by modulating kinase expression or activity e.g. by potentiating or disrupting certain protein protein interactions. In general whether carried out in vivo in vitro or in situ the method comprises treating the cell with an effective amount of a kinase peptide a nucleic acid or an antibody of the invention at least one of i rate of growth ii differentiation or iii survival of the cell. The modulatory effect as described are useful for researches on signal transduction pathways as well as disease treatment.

The invention provides an antisense nucleic acid that specifically hybridizes to a nucleic acid encoding a kinase of the present invention wherein the antisense nucleic acid inhibits the expression of the kinase. The invention further provides a method of inhibiting the expression of a kinase of the present invention by contacting a sample in vitro or in vivo with an antisense nucleic acid of the present invention so that expression of the kinase is inhibited.

In another aspect an antibody of the present invention may bind to and competitively inhibit polypeptide multimerization and or binding of a kinase of the invention to a ligand thus modulate the activity of the kinase in signal transduction.

In one embodiment an RTK Mab MAPKAP K Mab or PI3 kinase MAb upon binding to the corresponding kinase located on a cell membrane induces apoptosis in the cell expressing the corresponding kinase on its membrane. The MAb may also reduce the number of cells or inhibits cell growth of cells that express corresponding kinase kinase expressing cells . Preferably the reduction in cell number or inhibition of cell growth is by at least about 10 about 20 about 30 about 40 about 50 about 65 about 75 or greater. Preferably the kinase expressing cells are disease cells e.g. cancer or tumor cells. More preferably the cancers include but are not limited to colorectal cancer pancreatic cancer lung cancer gastric cancer hepatocellular carcinoma breast cancer and thyroid cancer.

The MAb may also inhibit the proliferation of kinase expressing cells preferably by at least about 10 about 20 about 30 about 40 about 50 about 65 about 75 or greater. In another embodiment the MAb inhibits the cell growth of the kinase expressing cells preferably by at least about 10 about 20 about 30 about 40 about 50 about 65 about 75 or greater. Preferably the kinase expressing cells are disease cells e.g. cancer or tumor cells. More preferably the cancers include but are not limited to colorectal cancer pancreatic cancer lung cancer gastric cancer hepatocellular carcinoma breast cancer and thyroid cancer.

Therefore antibodies of the present invention can act as agonists or antagonists of the protein tyrosine kinase biomarker polypeptides of the present invention. For example the present invention includes antibodies which disrupt receptor ligand interactions with polypeptides of the invention either partially or fully. The invention also includes receptor specific antibodies which do not prevent ligand binding but do prevent receptor activation. Receptor activation i.e. signaling can be determined by techniques described herein or as otherwise known in the art. For example receptor activation can be determined by detecting the phosphorylation e.g. on tyrosine or serine threonine of the receptor or its substrate by immunoprecipitation followed by Western Blot analysis.

Accordingly the method can be carried out with kinase therapeutics such as a monoclonal antibody an antisense nucleic acid or a kinase peptide of the invention which agonizes or antagonizes the effects of signaling from a kinase protein or ligand binding of a kinase protein. The antisense nucleic acid of the invention inhibits the expression of a target kinase gene while the peptide or the antibody may competitively inhibit ligand interactions with the wild type kinase protein.

The kinase peptides of the present invention can be introduced together with a carrier protein such as an albumin to an animal system such as rabbit or mouse . Alternatively if the peptide is of sufficient length e.g. at least about 15 25 amino acids the polypeptide can be presented without a carrier.

In one embodiment the composition for therapy is formulated for administration by intraperitoneal intravenous subcutaneous and intramuscular injections and other forms of administration such as oral mucosal via inhalation sublingually etc.

The nucleic acids and antibodies of the present invention may be delivered with a carrier. As used herein the term carrier refers to a diluent adjuvant excipient or vehicle with which an active ingredient e.g. a nucleic acid peptide or antibody of the invention is administered. Such carriers can be sterile liquids such as water and oils. Water or aqueous solution saline solutions and aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions are preferably employed as carriers particularly for injectable solutions. As used herein a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers to a non toxic material that does not interfere with the effectiveness of the biological activity of the active ingredient s . A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier also refers to molecular entities and compositions that are physiologically tolerable and do not typically produce untoward reactions when administered to a human. Preferably as used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable means approved by a regulatory agency of the Federal or a state government or listed in the U.S. Pharmacopeia or other generally recognized pharmacopeia for use in animals and more particularly in humans. The characteristics of the carrier will depend on the route of administration. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers are described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences by E. W. Martin 20th Edition.

A nucleic acid encoding any of the antibodies of the present invention can also be used for delivery and expression of any of the antibodies of the present invention in a desired cell. It is apparent that an expression vector can be used to direct expression of an antibody. The expression vector can be administered by any means known in the art such as intraperitoneally intravenously intramuscularly subcutaneously intrathecally intraventricularly orally enterally parenterally intranasally dermally sublingually or by inhalation. For example administration of expression vectors includes local or systemic administration including injection oral administration particle gun or catheterized administration and topical administration. One skilled in the art is familiar with administration of expression vectors to obtain expression of an exogenous protein in vivo. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 436 908 6 413 942 and 6 376 471.

The therapeutic polynucleotides and polypeptides of the present invention can be delivered using gene delivery vehicles. The gene delivery vehicle can be of viral or non viral origin see generally Jolly 1994 Cancer Gene Therapy 1 51 Kimura 1994 Human Gene Therapy 5 845 Connelly 1985 Human Gene Therapy 1 185 and Kaplitt 1994 Nature Genetics 6 148 . Expression of such coding sequences can be induced using endogenous mammalian or heterologous promoters. Expression of the coding sequence can be either constitutive or regulated.

Viral based vectors for delivery of a desired polynucleotide and expression in a desired cell are well known in the art. Exemplary viral based vehicles include but are not limited to recombinant retroviruses e.g. PCT Publication Nos. WO 90 07936 WO 94 03622 WO 93 25698 WO 93 25234 WO 93 11230 WO 93 10218 WO 91 02805 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 219 740 4 777 127 GB Patent No. 2 200 651 and EP Patent No. 0 345 242 alphavirus based vectors e.g. Sindbis virus vectors Semliki forest virus ATCC VR 67 ATCC VR 1247 Ross River virus ATCC VR 373 ATCC VR 1246 and Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus ATCC VR 923 ATCC VR 1250 ATCC VR 1249 ATCC VR 532 and adeno associated virus AAV vectors e.g. PCT Publication Nos. WO 94 12649 WO 93 03769 WO 93 19191 WO 94 28938 WO 95 11984 and WO 95 00655. Administration of DNA linked to killed adenovirus as described in Curiel 1992 Hum. Gene Ther. 3 147 can also be employed.

Non viral delivery vehicles and methods can also be employed including but are not limited to polycationic condensed DNA linked or unlinked to killed adenovirus alone see e.g. Curiel 1992 Hum. Gene Ther. 3 147 ligand linked DNA see e.g. Wu 1989 J. Biol. Chem. 264 16985 eukaryotic cell delivery vehicles cells see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 814 482 PCT Publication Nos. WO 95 07994 WO 96 17072 WO 95 30763 and WO 97 42338 and nucleic charge neutralization or fusion with cell membranes.

Naked DNA can also be employed. Exemplary naked DNA introduction methods are described in PCT Publication No. WO 90 11092 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 580 859. Liposomes that can act as gene delivery vehicles are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 422 120 PCT Publication Nos. WO 95 13796 WO 94 23697 WO 91 14445 and EP Patent NO. 0 524 968. Additional approaches are described in Philip 1994 Mol. Cell. Biol. 14 2411 and in Woffendin 1994 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 91 1581.

Other formulations include suitable delivery forms known in the art including but not limited to carriers such as liposomes. See for example Mahato et al. 1997 Pharm. Res. 14 853 859. Liposomal preparations include but are not limited to cytofectins multilamellar vesicles and unilamellar vesicles.

In another embodiment the present invention also contemplates administration of a composition comprising nucleic acids or antibodies of the present invention conjugated to other molecules such as detectable labels or therapeutic or cytotoxic agents. The agents may include but are not limited to radioisotopes toxins toxoids inflammatory agents enzymes antisense molecules peptides cytokines or chemotherapeutic agents. Methods of conjugating the antibodies with such molecules are generally known to those of skilled in the art. See e.g. PCT publications WO 92 08495 WO 91 14438 WO 89 12624 U.S. Pat. No. 5 314 995 and EP 396 387 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The dosage required for the treatment depends on the choice of the route of administration the nature of the formulation the nature of the subject s illness the subject s size weight surface area age and sex other drugs being administered and the judgment of the attending physician. Suitable dosages are in the range of 0.01 1000.0 mg kg.

The practice of the present invention will employ unless otherwise indicated conventional techniques of cell biology cell culture molecular biology microbiology recombinant DNA and immunology which are within the skill of the art.

Such techniques are explained fully in the literature and herein above. See for example Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual 2nd Ed. ed. by Sambrook Fritsch and Maniatis Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 1989 DNA Cloning Volumes 1 and 11 D. N. Glover ed. 1985 Oligonucleotide Synthesis M. J. Gait ed. 1984 Mullis et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 683 195 Nucleic Acid Hybridization B. D. Hames S. J. Higgins eds. 1984 Transcription And Translation B. D. Hames S. J. Higgins eds. 1984 Culture Of Animal Cells R. 1. Freshney Alan R. Liss Inc. 1987 Immobilized Cells And Enzymes IRL Press 1986 B. Perbal A Practical Guide To Molecular Cloning 1984 the treatise Methods In Enzymology Academic Press Inc. N.Y. Gene Transfer Vectors For Mammalian Cells J. H. Miller and M. P. Calos eds. 1987 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Methods In Enzymology Vols. 154 and 155 Wu et al. eds. Immunochemical Methods In Cell And Molecular Biology Mayer and Walker eds. Academic Press London 1987 Handbook Of Experimental Immunology Volumes I IV D. M. Weir and C. C. Blackwell eds. 1986 Manipulating the Mouse Embryo Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1986 .

The invention will be better understood by reference to the following example which serve to illustrate but not to limit the present invention.

SPF rabbits Maine Biotechnology Services Inc. were used to generate polyclonal antisera. Forty 40 rabbits were used. Each rabbit was injected with a mixture of three panRTK epitopes either combination 1 YVHHRDLAAARNIL SEQ ID NO. 1 CIHRRDLAARNNVL SEQ ID NO. 2 and FVHRDLAAARNNCM SEQ ID NO. 3 combination 1 is referred to as pan TK1 or combination 2 LVHRDDLLAARNVL SEQ ID NO. 4 FIHHRDIAAARNCL SEQ ID NO. 5 and FVHRDDLATRNCCL SEQ ID No. 6 combination 2 is referred to as pan TK2 . The rabbits were bled and the panRTK antisera were then affinity purified using the same combinations of epitopes against which they had been raised.

The purified pan TK1 and pan TK2 antisera were screened against the peptides used to raise the antibodies using ELISA and Western Blot assays.

The results of the ELISA assays for the pan TK1 antisera are described below. ELISA assays were performed using the following BSA conjugated peptides one assay per peptide 

The results are shown graphically in . The first two bars represent sera taken from test rabbits after administration of the peptides but prior to incubation designated in as pre bleed Rb1 and Rb2 . The second two bars represent antisera taken from the same test rabbits after incubation designated in as Rb1 Th 7 23 and Rb2 Th 7 23 . As demonstrated in the reactivity of the antisera to peptide sequence 2 SEQ ID NO. 1 after incubation is several times greater than the reactivity of the control sera.

Western Blot assays were run on rabbit antisera after inoculation with the pan TK1 combination of peptides in order to confirm the antigenicity of the pan TK1 peptides. The results of the Western Blot assays are described below.

Rabbits were inoculated with the pan TK1 mixture of peptides and the rabbit antisera were assayed using the pan TK1 peptides as detection agents at two time points after inoculation but prior to incubation and two weeks after inoculation. The Western Blot results are shown in . and show the initial results shows the results for reduced samples and shows the results for non reduced samples. For both and Lane 1 is a molecular weight marker Lane 2 shows the antibody immunoreactive with sequence 2 Lane 3 shows the antibody immunoreactive with sequence 3 and Lane 4 shows the antibody immunoreactive with sequence 4. shows the results after a two week incubation period for reduced samples and shows the results after two week incubation period for non reduced samples of the rabbit antisera. For both and Lanes 1 and 5 are molecular weight markers Lanes 2 and 6 show the antibody immunoreactive with sequence 2 Lanes 3 and 7 shows the antibody immunoreactive with sequence 3 and Lane 4 and 8 show the antibody immunoreactive with sequence 4.

The results of the ELISA assays for the pan TK2 antisera are described. ELISA assays were performed using the following BSA conjugated peptides one assay per peptide TABLE US 00012 Sequence 5 peptide Ac LVHRDDLLAARNVL OH SEQ ID NO. 4 Sequence 6 peptide Ac FIHHRDIAAARNCL OH SEQ ID NO. 5 Sequence 7 peptide Ac FVHRDDLATRNCCL OH SEQ ID NO. 6 

Western Blot assays were run on rabbit antisera after inoculation with the pan TK2 combination of peptides in order to confirm the antigenicity of the pan TK2 peptides. The results of the Western Blot assays are described below.

Rabbits were inoculated with the pan TK2 mixture of peptides and the rabbit antisera were assayed using the pan TK2 antigens as detection agents at two time points after inoculation but prior to incubation and two weeks after inoculation. The Western Blot results are shown in . shows the initial results Lanes 1 4 of show the results for reduced samples and Lanes 5 8 of show the results for non reduced samples. For Lanes 1 and 5 are molecular weight markers Lanes 2 and 6 show the antibody immunoreactive with sequence 5 Lanes 3 and 7 show the antibody immunoreactive with sequence 6 and Lanes 4 and 8 show the antibody immunoreactive with sequence 7. shows the results after a two week incubation period for reduced samples and shows the results after two week incubation period for non reduced samples of the rabbit antisera. For both and Lanes 1 and 5 are molecular weight markers Lanes 2 and 6 show the antibody immunoreactive with sequence 5 Lanes 3 and 7 shows the antibody immunoreactive with sequence 6 and Lane 4 and 8 show the antibody immunoreactive with sequence 7.

Pan TK1 antisera produced according to Example 1 was used to screen a human serum sample. The panTK antibodies in the antisera were able to simultaneously detect the relative phosphorylation of forty two different RTK proteins in the serum sample. Table 5 below shows the proteins immunoreactive with the Pan TK1 antisera.

As shown by the results in Table 5 panRTK antibodies according to the invention are immunoreactive with most human and murine RTKs and with a subset of nonreceptor tyrosine kinase proteins e.g. JAK family members SRC family members FAK PTK2 ABL and ARG that contain the conserved epitope. The panRTK antisera immunoprecipitate individual RTK proteins with lower efficiency than specific kinase antibodies in as much as they react with the entire class of RTK proteins rather than targeting a specific kinase protein. Typically 10 20 g of panRTK antisera are required per immunoprecipitation in order to purify the same amount of each RTK protein that would typically be immunoprecipitated with 2 4 g of an optimized specific antibody.

Polyclonal antisera containing antibodies against the five MAPKAP peptides shown as SEQ ID NOs. 7 11 were produced in rabbits according to the procedure set forth in Example 1. Each rabbit was injected with one of the peptides of SEQ ID NOs. 7 11. The rabbits were bled and the antisera were then affinity purified using the same epitopes against which they had been raised.

The purified antisera were screened against the peptides used to raise the antibodies using ELISA and Western Blot assays as described in Example 1. Briefly rabbits were inoculated with each of the peptides set forth as SEQ ID NOs. 7 11 and the rabbit antisera were assayed using the peptides as detection agents. The Western Blot results at a dilutions of 1 50 are shown in Lane 1 is a molecular weight marker Lane 2 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 7 Lanes 3 7 and 8 show the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 8 Lane 4 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 9 Lane 5 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 10 Lanes 6 and 9 show the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 11 and Lane 10 shows the results for a commercial MAPK antibody obtained from Cell Signaling Technology www.cellsignal.ccom used as a control.

The results of the ELISA assays for the antisera are shown schematically in . ELISA assays were performed using the following BSA conjugated peptides one assay per peptide at dilutions of 1 50 and 1 250. The accuracy specificity and sensitivity of the antibodies were measured using standard MS techniques. is a graph showing the results for the antibodies against the peptides of SEQ ID. NOs. 7 and 9 at a dilution of 1 50 shows the results for the antibodies against SEQ ID NOs. 7 8 and 9 at dilutions of 1 250 and shows the results for the antibody against SEQ ID NO. 11 at a dilution of 1 250. The ELISA assay results showed that the antibody against SEQ ID NO. 7 displayed positive sensitivity and the antibodies against SEQ ID NOs. 8 11 all showed positive accuracy specificity and sensitivity.

Polyclonal antisera containing antibodies against the twelve PI3 peptides shown as SEQ ID NOs. 12 23 were produced in rabbits according to the procedure set forth in Example 1. Each rabbit was injected with one of the peptides of SEQ ID NOs. 12 23. The rabbits were bled and the antisera were then affinity purified using the same epitopes against which they had been raised.

The purified antisera were screened against the peptides used to raise the antibodies using ELISA and Western Blot assays as described in Example 1. Briefly rabbits were inoculated with each of the peptides set forth as SEQ ID NOs. 12 23 and the rabbit antisera were assayed using the peptides as detection agents. The Western Blot results at a dilutions of 1 250 are shown in in both Figures Lane 1 is a molecular weight marker and Lane 10 is a commercial anti MAPK antibody obtained from Cell Signaling Technologies used as a control. In Lane 2 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 12 Lane 3 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 13 Lane 4 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 14 Lane 5 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 15 Lane 6 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 16 Lane 7 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 17 Lane 8 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 18 and Lane 9 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 19. In Lane 2 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 20 Lane 3 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 21 Lane 4 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 22 Lane 5 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 23 Lane 6 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 17 Lane 7 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 18 Lane 8 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 15 and Lane 9 shows the antibody immunoreactive with SEQ ID NO. 19.

The results of the ELISA assays for the antisera are shown schematically in . ELISA assays were performed using the following BSA conjugated peptides one assay per peptide at dilutions of 1 250. The accuracy specificity and sensitivity of the antibodies were measured using standard MS techniques. is a graph showing the results for the antibodies against the peptides of SEQ ID. NOs. 12 13 and 14 shows the results for the antibodies against SEQ ID NOs. 15 and 16 and shows the results for antibodies against SEQ ID NOs. 17 18 and 19. The ELISA results for SEQ ID NOs. 20 23 not represented graphically showed positive 0 accuracy specificity and sensitivity. The ELISA assay results showed that the antibodies against SEQ ID NOs. 12 23 all showed positive accuracy specificity and sensitivity.

All patents patent applications and published references cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to preferred embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims.

