---

title: Resting device assembly including a table and a trolley
abstract: A resting device assembly for supporting a person above a surface during a procedure includes a resting device and a trolley. The resting device includes a device top assembly having a padded device top that supports the person during the procedure, and a device frame that supports the device top assembly. The device frame includes a frame base, a frame leg assembly having a plurality of spaced apart legs that supports the frame base and the device top assembly above the surface, and a height adjuster that adjusts the length of the plurality of spaced apart legs so as to raise and lower the device top relative to the surface. The frame base is a substantially rigid frame base that significantly increases the overall strength, support, and stability of the resting device assembly. The trolley defines a storage area for storing procedure materials that are usable during the procedure. The trolley is movable relative to the resting device between a storage position, wherein the trolley is positioned substantially beneath the resting device, and a working position, wherein the trolley is positioned next to the resting device. When the trolley is in the working position the procedure materials are easily accessed from the trolley.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07966947&OS=07966947&RS=07966947
owner: Earthlite Massage Tables, Inc.
number: 07966947
owner_city: Vista
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080509
---
This application claims priority on U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 928 764 filed on May 11 2007 and entitled RESTING DEVICE ASSEMBLY INCLUDING A TABLE AND A TROLLEY . As far as is permitted the contents of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 928 764 are incorporated herein by reference.

As the benefits of therapeutic massage are becoming more widely appreciated more and more people are participating in therapeutic massage. A typical massage table allows the patient to be resting while receiving a massage. Salon procedures such as manicures pedicures and facial treatments have also become very popular for many people. A typical salon chair allows the patient to be relaxing in an inclined position while receiving a salon procedure. Important features for massage tables and salon chairs include high strength support stability rigidity and ease of usage. Additionally whether a patient is receiving a massage or a salon procedure the person performing the massage or salon procedure often utilizes one or more procedure related materials during the procedure.

The present invention is directed to a resting device assembly for supporting a person above a surface during a procedure on the person. The resting device assembly includes a resting device and a trolley. In certain embodiments the resting device includes a device top assembly having a padded device top that supports the person during the procedure. The trolley defines a storage area for storing procedure materials that are usable during the procedure. In some embodiments the trolley is movable relative to the resting device between a storage position wherein the trolley is positioned substantially beneath the resting device and a working position wherein the trolley is positioned next to the resting device. When the trolley is in the working position the procedure materials are easily accessed from the trolley for use by the person performing the procedure.

In one embodiment the trolley includes a trolley base that defines a storage area for storing the procedure materials and a trolley top that is selectively movable relative to the trolley base between a retracted configuration and an expanded configuration. The trolley top includes a substantially flat trolley surface for supporting the procedure materials during the procedure. In one embodiment the trolley further includes a top connector assembly that connects the trolley top to the trolley base and allows the trolley top to be selectively moved relative to the trolley base between the retracted configuration and the expanded configuration.

In one embodiment when the trolley is in the storage position it can be selectively attached to the resting device.

In certain embodiments the resting device is movable between an inclined chair configuration and a substantially planar table configuration.

In some embodiments the resting device includes a device frame that supports the device top assembly. In these embodiments the device frame includes a frame base a frame leg assembly having a plurality of spaced apart legs that support the frame base and the device top assembly above the surface and a height adjuster that adjusts the length of the plurality of spaced apart legs so as to raise and lower the device top relative to the surface. In one embodiment the frame base is a substantially rigid frame base that significantly increases the overall strength support and stability of the resting device assembly.

The present invention is also directed to a method for manufacturing a resting device assembly for supporting a person above a surface during a procedure.

As an overview in certain embodiments the resting device assembly allows for improved support and movement of the resting device . In particular the leg strength and stability of the resting device is greatly increased by being independently supported by a rigid frame. Further the trolley provides a convenient location to store and position one or more procedure related materials illustrated as a box in for easy access and use during the procedure.

The resting device supports a person above a surface illustrated in during a procedure such as a salon procedure or a massage. The surface can be a floor the ground or some other substantially level surface.

In some embodiments the resting device is convertible between an inclined salon chair configuration A as illustrated in and a substantially planar massage table configuration B as illustrated in . During a salon procedure the resting device provides an inclined place for the person to sit while a procedure is being performed on that person. Procedures commonly performed in a salon are a manicure treatment on the fingernails of the person a pedicure facial treatments a massage and various other body treatments. During a massage procedure the resting device can be used to support a person in a generally flat or planar table configuration while a massage procedure is being performed on that person. An example of a suitable resting device that is convertible between an inclined salon chair configuration A and a substantially planar massage table configuration B is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 163 904 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Alternatively for example the resting device can have another design. For example the resting device can be a salon chair that is not movable to a flat massage table configuration or the resting device can be a massage table that is not movable to an inclined salon chair configuration.

In the embodiment illustrated in B and the resting device includes a device frame and a device top assembly .

The device frame is rigid and supports the device top assembly and some of the other components of the resting device . In one embodiment the device frame includes a frame base a frame leg assembly and a height adjuster illustrated in phantom . In B and the frame base is generally rectangular frame shaped and includes four generally flat plate shaped base sides A that form the rectangular frame base . Additionally the frame base can include four generally L shaped corner frame braces B that facilitate attachment of the frame leg assembly to the frame base . In one embodiment the frame base is made of a rigid material such as steel e.g. steel plates .

In one embodiment the device frame is really stable and rigid and functions as a unibody structure that supports the frame leg assembly and the height adjuster . In this embodiment the resting device is able to provide significant support stability and rigidity for the ease and comfort of the person receiving the procedure and for the person administering the procedure.

The frame leg assembly supports the frame base and the device top assembly above the surface . Further in certain embodiments the frame leg assembly allows for height adjustment of the device top assembly relative to the surface . The design of the frame leg assembly can vary. In B and the frame leg assembly includes four spaced apart legs A with each of the legs A being positioned at one of the corners of the frame base . In one embodiment each of the legs A is telescoping and includes an upper leg section B that is fixedly secured to the rigid frame base and a lower leg section C that partly fits within the upper leg section B. The lower leg section C is designed to move relative to the upper leg section B to adjust the length of the leg A and correspondingly adjust the height of the device top assembly relative to the surface . In the Figures each of the leg sections B C is generally rectangular tube shaped. For example each of the leg sections B C can have relatively tight tolerances with the lower leg section C fitting within and sliding within the upper leg section B.

The height adjuster moves the upper leg sections B relative to the lower leg sections C to adjust the height of the device top assembly relative to the surface . In one embodiment the height adjuster includes four electrical actuators A. For example the height adjuster can include four linear motors. Each of the actuators A is designed to electronically move one of the upper leg sections B relative to its respective lower leg section C. With this design the actuators A can be controlled to precisely adjust the length of the legs A and correspondingly the height of the device top assembly relative to the surface .

In one non exclusive embodiment each actuator A is a ball screw type motor in which the motor rotates a ball screw to selectively move the lower leg section C relative to the upper leg section B. In this embodiment a single control system illustrated as a box in phantom in can direct power to each of the actuators A to control the operation of the actuators A. With this design the control system under the control of the operator of the device can control the actuators A to adjust the height of the legs simultaneously.

The device top assembly supports the person above the surface during the salon procedure or massage. The design of the device top assembly can vary. In the embodiment shown in B and the device top assembly includes a padded device top A having four padded top sections that are movable relative to the frame base and pivotable relative to each other to orientate the device top assembly in an inclined chair configuration A for seating of the person during a manicure or another salon procedure or a generally planar table configuration B for supporting the person during a massage. Alternatively the device top assembly could be designed with greater or fewer than four top sections or the device top assembly can be designed to be moved to greater than two configurations.

Additionally the device top assembly can include a top mover assembly B that moves the four top sections of the padded device top A between the configurations A B. The design of the top mover assembly B can vary. In one embodiment the top mover assembly B can include one or more electrical motors and or linkages to move the four top sections of the padded device top A. Alternatively the four top sections of the padded device top A can be moved manually and or the resting device can be designed so that the top sections of the padded device top A do not move relative to each other.

Further the resting device can include an armrest assembly not shown having a left armrest for supporting the left arm of the person during the manicure treatment on the left hand and a right armrest for supporting the right arm of the person during the manicure treatment on the right hand.

The trolley provides a convenient location to store and position one or more procedure related materials for use during the procedure. For example the trolley can store and position one or more lubricants chemicals towels facial treatment tools and hot and cool therapy devices used in the massage or salon procedure.

The design of the trolley can vary. In some embodiments the trolley is movable relative to the resting device between a storage position A illustrated in wherein the trolley is positioned substantially beneath the resting device and a working position B illustrated in wherein the trolley is positioned next to and spaced apart from the resting device so that the procedure related materials are easily accessed from the trolley .

In one embodiment the trolley is movable between a retracted configuration as illustrated in B and and an expanded configuration as illustrated in . In the retracted configuration the trolley stores the procedure related materials and in the expanded configuration the trolley maintains the procedure related materials near the resting device for easy access by the user. Further in the certain embodiments in the retracted configuration the trolley is sized and shaped to fit under the resting device so that it is out of the way for storage.

When the trolley is in the retracted configuration it can be moved easily between the storage position A and the working position B. In certain embodiments the trolley is sized and shaped so that it can only be moved into the expanded configuration when the trolley is in the working position B or is otherwise positioned away from the storage position A.

As illustrated in B and the trolley includes a trolley base a trolley top and a top connector assembly . The size shape and configuration of these components can be varied.

In one embodiment the trolley base is generally shaped like an open rectangular box. With this design the trolley base defines a storage area illustrated in for storing the procedure related materials when the trolley is not being used during a procedure. Additionally or alternatively for example a hot towel warmer can be installed in the trolley .

The trolley base can include a plurality of wheels that allow the trolley to be moved relative to the resting device . For example the trolley base can include four spaced apart wheels that allow the trolley to be selectively and freely moved under away from and around the resting device .

The trolley top provides a substantially flat trolley surface for supporting the procedure related materials during the procedure. With this design the user can easily access the procedure related materials during the administration of a procedure. In one embodiment the trolley top is generally rectangular shaped.

Further in certain embodiments the trolley top is selectively movable relative to the trolley base between the retracted configuration and the expanded configuration .

The top connector assembly connects the trolley top to the trolley base and allows the trolley top to be selectively moved relative to the trolley base between the retracted configuration and the expanded configuration . The design of the top connector assembly can be varied to achieve the movement described herein. In the Figures the top connector assembly includes a pair of spaced apart connectors that connect the trolley top to the trolley base . In this embodiment the connectors cooperate with the trolley top and the trolley base to define a four bar type linkage that i allows the trolley top to pivot and move upward during movement from the retracted configuration to the expanded configuration and ii allows the trolley top to pivot and move downward during movement from the expanded configuration to the retracted configuration . Alternatively the trolley top can be moved up and down in another fashion.

In one embodiment the trolley top is biased e.g. by a spring toward the expanded configuration and held in position in the retracted configuration with a latch . With this design when the latch is released the trolley top moves upward from the retracted configuration to the expanded configuration and is held in position in the expanded configuration . Further the trolley top can be manually urged downward to the retracted configuration and maintained in the retracted configuration with the latch .

Alternatively for example a motor can be used to electrically move the trolley top between the retracted configuration and the expanded configuration .

This feature is unique in that when the trolley is in the retracted position under the resting device the trolley feature is hidden and the resting device appears as a normal massage table or salon chair with a fixedly secured under cabinet.

Additionally the trolley can have a folding work light embedded in the trolley top . This work light can be similar to an old style accordion desk lamp or as simple as a goose neck lamp that folds into the trolley for storage. The work light will be attached to the moving trolley and the light will be used for assisting in therapy treatments such as facials and various skin treatments.

While the current invention is disclosed in detail herein it is to be understood that it is merely illustrative of the presently preferred embodiments of the invention and that no limitations are intended to the details of construction or design herein shown.

