---

title: Retrieving substitute data to replace damaged media data for playback in a media player
abstract: A media player is utilized to determine presence of defects in storage devices, and to retrieve replacement data from media management servers. The retrieval of the replacement data is performed during playback and/or use of the storage devices. The replacement data is only utilized during real time playback of the storage devices. The replacement data can also be stored within the data storage player, into the storage devices, and/or into external storage devices accessible during playback operations. Addressing information is created and/or modified to enable use of stored replacement data. A new copy of the data can be created in the same or in new storage device. The media management server performs access authentication operations during replacement data retrieval. The media management server is accessed via user-based webpage-like interfaces and/or dedicated APIs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08667087&OS=08667087&RS=08667087
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 08667087
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081125
---
Certain embodiments of the invention relate to media processing. More specifically certain embodiments of the invention relate to a method and system for retrieving substitute data to replace damaged media data for playback in a media player.

Portable storage elements may be utilized to store data. These storage elements comprise for example hard drives digital video discs DVD compact discs CD video compact discs VCD High Definition DVDs HD DVD BluRay discs Flash cards SIM cards and memory sticks. The storage elements may be utilized to store various types of data including for example software backup data and or media data which comprise for example audio and or video streaming data. Media players may be utilized to playback media data stored in storage elements. For example DVD players and or PCs may be utilized to play media data stored in DVDs and or CDs.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with some aspects of the present invention as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

A system and or method is provided for retrieving substitute data to replace damaged media data for playback in a media player substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

These and other advantages aspects and novel features of the present invention as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

Certain embodiments of the invention may be found in a method and system for retrieving substitute data to replace damaged media data for playback in a media player. A data storage player is utilized to determine presence of defects in storage devices and to retrieve replacement data from a media management server. The storage devices are utilized to store various types of data including multimedia data. The retrieval of the replacement data is performed during playback and or use of the storage devices via the data storage player. The replacement data is utilized during real time playback of the storage devices. The replacement data is also be stored to facilitate subsequent playback operations. The replacement data is stored within the data storage player into the storage devices via the data storage player in accessible and unused regions in the storage devices and or into external storage devices that are accessible during playback operations. Addressing information is created and or modified to enable use of stored replacement data. A new copy of the data is created where the presence and or extent of the defects completely bars data reads from the storage devices. The new data image is written into the current storage device via the data storage player in accessible and unused regions in the current storage device or into a new storage device where the current storage device is deemed unusable. The data storage player is utilized to ensure that the data reads from the current storage device is permanently disabled.

During replacement data retrieval operations the media management server performs access authentication operations which comprise user verification license verification copying verification. The media management server also enables creating and or modifying user related portfolios to facilitate future product verifications and or to enable user communicating. The media management server enables interactions by remote users to request replacement data wherein the user interactions via the media source management server functionality is based on user webpage liked interfaces and or dedicated APIs.

The media storage element comprises a device that is utilized to store data. The media storage element may comprise for example a hard drives a digital video discs DVD a compact discs CD a video compact discs VCD a High Definition DVDs HD DVD and or a BluRay disc. The media storage element is utilized for example to store media data that is played back via the PC and or the fixed media player . The media data is stored onto the media storage element by a media provider for example DVD producer and writing into the media storage element is disabled and or prohibited. Alternatively writing into the media storage element is allowed either unconditionally or subject to some limitations and conditions. The defect prevents reading data from the media storage element either wholly or partially. For example where the media storage element is a DVD or a CD the defect may comprise a physical scratch that prevents reading the DVD CD or a sector therein by an appropriate DVD CD player.

The PC comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable performing a plurality of tasks applications and operations requested by one or more users. The PC may comprise for example a laptop or a desktop operable to run an operating system and to enable performing various personal tasks including web browsing gaming software applications and or other operations. In an exemplary aspect of the invention the PC is operable to enabled reading data from portable storage elements for example the storage element via the media drive . The media drive comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable reading data from and or writing data into one or more types of storage elements. The media drive comprises for example a CD drive and or a DVD drive. The PC monitor comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable displaying graphics and or video streams generated via the PC .

The PC error detect replacement system EDRS comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable detecting defects in storage element readable via a media drive the PC media drive for example. The PC EDRS is also operable to enable retrieving of replacement data for example from the media management server to enable playback of media data stored in storage elements determined to have defects.

The fixed media player comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable playback of media data stored into one or more types of storage elements. The fixed media player may comprise for example a CD player and or a DVD player. The media drive is substantially similar to the PC media drive and is operable to enable reading data from and or writing data into one or more types of storage elements including for example CDs and or DVDs. Audio video media streams generated from media data read via the fixed media player are playable via the television . The television comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable outputting and or displaying audio video media streams. The EDRS is substantially similar to the PC EDRS and as operable to enable detection of defects in storage element readable via media drive and to enable retrieving replacement media data for example from the media management server to enable playback of media data stored in storage elements determined to have defects.

The handheld communication device comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable portable communication via one or more wireless interfaces. For example the handheld communication device comprises a cellular phone that is operable to enable cellular accessibility via the cellular network . The handheld communication device is also operable to enable performing various user specified tasks. For example the handheld communication device is utilized to enable playback of media data that is read from the personal media source .

The cellular network comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable cellular communication based on one or more cellular technologies. Exemplary cellular technologies comprise CDMA WCDMA CDMA1000 HSDPA GSM GPRS EDGE and UMTS. Cellular base stations are utilized for example to enable transmission and or reception of cellular based RF communications between the cellular network and cellular capable devices for example the handheld communication device . The cellular network is also operable to enable communication with remote nodes and or entities for example the media management server via the internet .

The personal media source comprises a device operable to store and or output media data. For example the personal media source may comprise a USB flash drive that is plugged into the handheld communication device via a USB port to enable inputting outputting data. The media reader subsystem is operable to enable playback of media data receivable from the personal media source . The EDRS is comprised similar to the PC EDRS and as operable to enable detection of defects in storage element readable via media drive and to enable retrieving replacement media data for example from the media management server to enable playback of media data stored in storage elements determined to have defects.

The media management server comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable storage and or retrieval of replacement data. For example the media management server is operable to enable the PC the fixed media player and or the handheld communication device to retrieve replacement data via the internet when the EDRS the EDRS and or the EDRS determines that that there is defects in the storage elements and or .

The Internet comprises a system of interconnected networks which enables exchange of information and or data among a plurality of nodes based on one or more networking standards including for example TCP IP. For example the Internet enables connectivity among a plurality of private and public academic business and or government nodes and networks wherein the physical connectivity may be provided via the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN via copper wires fiber optic cables wireless interface and or other standards based interfaces. In an exemplary aspect of the invention the internet provides connectivity between media management server and the PC the fixed media player and or the handheld device .

In operation the PC the fixed media player and or the handheld communication device are operable to enable reading data stored in the personal media source and or the media storage element via the PC media drive the media drive and or the media reader subsystem . For example where the media storage element comprises a DVD or a CD the PC media drive and or the media drive is utilized to read out media data stored on the disc to enable generating corresponding audio video streams that are playable for example via the PC monitor and or the television respectively.

In an exemplary aspect of the invention the PC the fixed media player and or the handheld communication device are operable to determine presence of defects that prevent reading of data stored in the personal media source and or the media storage element . The PC the fixed media player and or the handheld communication device are then operable to retrieve from one or more instances of the media management server replacement data that enable use and or playback of the stored data in the personal media source and or the media storage element . Due to the defect for example data stored in the media storage element can become unreadable. For example in instances where the media storage element comprises a DVD or a CD the defect may comprise physical defects in the DVD or CD which are scratches that result from use the DVD CD and or impurities in the resin used in the manufacture of the DVD CD. Such physical defects cause various problems that prevent or degrade readability of the media storage element . For example the presence of the defect can cause lockup sequences where reading from the media storage element simply terminates at some point during playback. The presence of the defect can also cause loop situations where reading from the media storage element repeatedly jumps to one or more points or sectors in the media storage element during playback of stored media data.

To counter such issues that arise from presence of the defect the PC EDRS and or the EDRS are utilized to detect presences of such defects in the media storage element . Once the presence of the defect is determined the PC EDRS and or the EDRS communicate with the media management server via the internet for example to retrieve replacement data that are used to substitute for data stored in non accessible sectors due to the presence of the defect in the media storage element . The replacement data which is received via the internet is then utilized to enable seamless playback of the media storage element . The detection and replacement of data is performed real time during each playback or once replacement data is received it is stored for future playback operations to avoid having to retrieve from the media management server during every subsequent playback. In instances where writing is enabled in the media storage element the retrieved replacement data is stored into available and accessible sectors in the media storage element and addressing information is created and or modified to enable accessing the new sectors when the defect is encountered again. In an embodiment of the invention detection of defects in personal media sources and or storage elements is performed other than during playback operations. For example the PC EDRS and or the EDRS are operable to enable performing defect scan operations without playback of the data stored in the media storage element for the purpose of determining presence of defect and or to retrieve replacement data for future playback operations for example.

The retrieved replacement data is also be stored within the PC media drive and or the media drive within the PC and or the fixed media player and or within some other available entity that is accessible by the PC and or the fixed media player during playback operations. The detection and replacement operations is performed other than during playback wherein the PC and or fixed media player are utilized to perform for example analysis mode operations to ensure readability of the media storage element based on user commands and or requests for example. The EDRS enable performing similar defect detection and data replacement retrieval in the handheld communication device with regard to the personal media source wherein the replacement data is communicated to the handheld communication device via the cellular network for example.

While the invention has been described with regard to storage elements utilized to store media data wherein appropriate media players are utilized to enable media playback the invention needs not be so limited and similar architecture and or methodology is utilized to enable use and or replacement of any type of data that is stored in storage elements and is read via appropriate devices. For example in an exemplary embodiment of the invention use and or replacement of software stored into storage elements and read via appropriate devices is performed via detection and replacement systems and or management servers that are substantially similar to the EDRS the EDRS the EDRS and or the media management server .

The media management server is comprised substantially as described with respect to . In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the media management server comprises a plurality of constituent functional blocks to enable supporting replacement data retrieval. The media management server comprises for example the account management entity the personal media portfolios the licensing verification the copy verification entity the media database the user I F and the API IF .

The account management entity comprises functionality that enables verification of users access information. The account management entity is utilized to perform initial registration when a user attempts to access the media management server for the first time. The account management enables generating storing and or activating user s access information and that access information is utilized thereafter in subsequent access requests to perform the necessary access verification. The account management entity also enables for example comparing provided access information with previously provided and or stored information during replacement data requests processing in the media management server . The access information comprises various types of information including for example user identifiers user passwords and or addressing information for devices used by users in reading data from media storage elements. At least some of access information is provided by manufacturers and or providers of media storage elements or it is generated by users of the media storage elements. The personal media portfolios comprises functionality that enables creating updating and or modifying users media related information. The media related information comprises for example information tracking the media storage elements that particular users have acquired. This information is then used for example to facilitate product verifications and or to enable communicating with the users where such communication is deemed necessary. The media related information is generated in the personal media portfolios in suitable instances of the media management server by media storage providers based on transaction with users of their products. The media related information is also generated whenever a user requests replacement data for a media storage element for the first time.

The licensing verification comprises functionality that enables verifying authenticity of media storage elements that caused the replacement data requests during data reads. For example the licensing verification comprises functionality that enables media storage element providers to store product information wherein the product information is used subsequently to match and identify media storage elements that are being read. The licensing verification is utilized for example to enforce protection of applicable proprietary rights copyright protections for example pertaining to the data stored into media storage elements by media storage element providers.

The copy verification entity comprises functionality that enables generating new copies of media storage elements during replacement data requests via the media management server . For example where processing of replacement data indicates that the portion of inaccessible data in a media storage element is substantial exceeding some specified threshold the copy verification entity enables creating a new copy of the media storage element. Consequently copy verification entity ensures that a whole data image is provided and that the current media storage element is permanently disabled to prevent unauthorized and or fraudulent copying. The licensing verification and or the copy verification are operable for example to enable enforcing copyright protections.

The media database comprises data that can be retrieved as replacement data. The media database comprises for example mirror copies of the data stored in media storage elements such as the media storage element for example. During replacement data retrieval requests the appropriate data is read from the media database and communicated to the entity requesting the replacement data.

The user I F comprises functionality that enables interactions between users and the media management server based on commonly utilized interface for example. The user I F enable for example remote access and or control for replacement data retrieval via the PC and the PC monitor based on an HTTP based browsing interface. Consequently the user I F will enable running a HTTP based server functionality via the media management server that enable establishing peer to peer connection with HTTP based client functionlity running at the user end for example via PC . The user I F enables for example prompting for and or receiving various information from users including for example access information product information and or data replacement and or copying request parameters.

The API IF comprises functionality that enables direct interactions between devices requesting replacement data and the media management server based on application programming interface API that is specific to a server functionality running in the media management server . For example once a determination via the fixed media player for example that replacement data is needed the API I F enables direct device to device interactions to facilitate the replacement data retrieval independent of user interactions. The API I F is utilized to retrieve replacement data for example where there is minimal interactions needed because access information and or verification information for example were previously provided and or were predefined directly into the media management server by third parties. Consequently the API I F is utilized to enable communication of the replacement data.

The actuator comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable physical interaction with media storage element to read and or write data. For example where the media storage element comprises an optical disc storage format for example a DVD the actuator comprises motor circuitry moving an arm that enables a read write actuator head to move over the surface of the DVD to read and or write data via laser signals. A spindle is utilized to rotate the DVD to enable the actuator head to span different sections of the DVD.

The read channel comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable extracting bit streams representing read data based on the physical interactions between the media storage element and the actuator head .

The memory comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable storage of data code and or other information. For example the memory IS utilized to enable temporary storage and or buffering during operations by read processing system adapter .

The reader processing system comprise suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable reading data from media storage elements for example the media storage element and or detection of defects and or retrieval of replacement data from media management servers. The reader processing system comprises for example the queue playback management block the actuator controller the spindle drive the data processing block and the defect processing block . The actuator controller comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable controlling the actuator to facilitate reading and or writing data from and or to the media storage element . The Spindle drive comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable controlling spindle used to facilitate rotating movable media storage elements to enable data read and or write via the actuator head .

The data processing block comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable processing data that are read from and or written to the media storage element . For example the data processing block is utilized to process bit streams extracted via the read channel comprising media data for example during data reads in the reader processing system . The queue playback management block comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable managing and or queuing data to improve play and or display quality. The queue playback management block enables managing for example buffering of data used during playback operations wherein such data buffering enable performing skip suppression for example. The queued data is buffered for example in the memory . In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the defect processing block is utilized to enable performing defect detection and replacement data retrieval in the reader processing system . The defect processing block comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable detection defects in media storage elements read via the reader processing system and or retrieval of replacement data from media management servers for example the media management server . In one embodiment of the invention the reader processing system may be integrated in devices to enable media playback from storage element and or defect detection and replacement data retrieval. For example the reader processing may correspond to the PC media drive the PC EDRS and or other subsystems in the PC that are operable to enable defect detection and replacement data retrieval via the PC .

The host processing comprises logic circuitry and or code that enable general processing operations in a system for example the PC . The host processing communicates with the reader processing system via the host interface . The communication interface comprises logic circuitry and or code that enable communication with entities via the internet based on one or more networking standards including for example TCP IP. The communication interface is utilized for example to enable communication with the media management server via the internet during replacement data retrieval.

In operation the reader processing system enable reading from and or writing to media storage elements. For example the actuator controller and or the spindle drive enable utilizing the actuator to interact with the media storage element to extract via the read channel bit streams comprising media data. The data processing block is then utilized to process the read data to extract the corresponding media streaming information and the media streams are played back via appropriate playback logic including for example the PC monitor and or the television . The queue playback management block is utilized for example to manage such playback operations and where data buffering is determined to be required the queue playback management block can utilize the memory for example to facilitate such data buffering.

Where issues are encountered during data reads from media storage elements the defect processing block is utilized to enable error detection and or to facilitate retrieval of replacement data. For example the presence of the defect could adversely affect physical interactions between the actuator head and the media storage element which are necessary to enable extracting bit streams comprising media data via the read channel . The defect processing block is utilized to detect such errors based on interactions with the read channel and or the data processing block for example. The defect processing block is utilized via a replacement controller for example to determine sectors in the media storage element that are unreadable due to the presence of the defect . The replacement controller is then utilized to communicate with the media management server via the host interface the host processing and or the communication interface for example to enable requesting replacement data. The communication between the reader processing system and the media management server is driven via user based interface and or based on API interface. The media management server performs necessary authentication and or verification operations via the account management entity and or the license management for example. The media management server retrieves the replacement data from the media database for example and communicates the replacement data via the internet . The replacement data is received via the communication interface and is communicated to the reader processing system via the host processing and or the host interface .

The queue playback management block is operable to receive the replacement data buffering the replacement data via the memory where necessary and the replacement data is utilized to enable error free playback of the media storage element . The replacement data is limited a single time use and is discarded or it is stored into memory to enable subsequent playbacks of the media storage element . The replacement data is stored directly into the media storage element via the reader processing system wherein the replacement data is stored in accessible and unused regions in the media storage element . The replacement data is offloaded onto an external storage device that accessible by the user during playback operations. Addressing information is created and or modified to enable use of stored replacement data during subsequent playback of the media storage element .

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the reader processing system is utilized to enable creating new copies for media storage elements. For example in instances where the presence and or extent of the defect completely bars data reads from the media storage element a new copy of the media data is created via the reader processing system . The copy verification entity enables verifying that creating a new copy is permitted. Replacement data corresponding to the whole data image in the media storage element is communicated to the reader processing system . The actuator is then utilized to write the replacement data either into the media storage element itself or into a new storage element. In instances where a new storage element is utilized to store the new copy the reader processing system is also be utilized to ensure that the data reads from the current storage element is permanently disabled by physically scratching the read write surface using the actuator head for example.

In other embodiments of the invention at least some of the functionality described to be performed external to the reader processing system is integrated within the reader processing system and or alternatively at least some of the functionality performed within the reader processing system is performed externally via other devices and or systems for example. The defect detection and or replacement functionality for example performed via the defect processing block is instead performed directly within the host processing . Consequently any available reader processing architecture and or methodology can be utilized in conjunction with the host processing to enable performing the defect detection and replacement operations with no changes and or by making minimal changes to effectuate for example necessary interactions with the host processing to enable performing defect detection and or replacement functionality in the host processing . Also in instances where the media playback is performed via a dedicated rather than general purpose device for example the fixed media player the host processing and the host interface may not exist. The reader processing system is operable to interact instead directly with the communication interface which is integrated within or located external to the reader processing system for example to facilitate communication with the media management server during replacement data retrieval operations.

In step data read from a storage element is initiated. For example the media storage element is inserted into the PC media drive in the PC to initiate playback of media data stored in the media storage element . In step defect detection is performed during media playback operations. For example during playback of the media storage element in the PC the PC EDRS is utilized to detect the presence of defects in the media storage element for example the defect that adversely affect data reads from the media storage element . In step a determination whether media management servers are accessible is performed. For example the PC via the PC EDRS for example checks to determine if the media management server is accessible to retrieve replacement data. In instances where it is determined that the media management server is inaccessible the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step an error message indicating the data read error and media playback failure is generated. The exemplary steps then terminate.

Returning to step in instances where it is determined that the media management server is accessible the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step a request for replacement data is communicated to the media management server . In step a determination whether replacement data is received from the media management server is performed. For example the replacement data may not be received because the replacement data request fails while performing one or more of the verifications in the media management server . This failure occurs because necessary data is not available in the media management server and or due to data loss in the communication between the media management server and the PC . In an exemplary aspect of the invention the replacement data request may be repeated for a predetermined number of retries and or until it is determined that the failure is unrectifiable and is this final. In instances where it is determined that the replacement data is not available the exemplary steps proceed to step .

Returning to step in instances where the replacement data is received the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step the replacement data is utilized to facilitate media playback. The replacement data is utilized only once for real time playback and or it is stored to enable subsequent playback of the media storage element and or to generate a new copy substantially as described with respect A and B for example.

In step a request for replacement data is received in a media management server . For example the media management server is operable to receive via the user interface and or the API Interface a request for replacement data from the reader processing system . In step access information authentication is performed. For example the account management entity the license verification and or the copy verification entity is utilized to perform necessary access authentication operations in the media management server substantially as described in . In instances where access authentication fails the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step a request failure indication is generated and communicated back to the requesting entity. The exemplary steps then terminate.

Returning to step in instances where access authentication succeeds the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step a determination whether the requested replacement data is available is performed. For example the media management server determines once the access information is verified whether the requested replacement data is available via the media database for example. In instances where the requested replacement data is unavailable the exemplary steps proceed to step .

Returning to step in instances where the requested replacement data is available the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step the replacement data is communicated to the requesting entity. For example once the replacement data is found the media management server communicates the data to the reader processing system . In step a determination whether to update user personal media portfolios is performed. For example after communicating replacement data the media management server determines whether the received request indicate a need to create and or modify the requesting user s profile via the personal media portfolios substantially as described in . In instances where no personal media portfolios updates are necessary the exemplary steps terminate. Returning to step in instances where personal media portfolios updates are required the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step the personal media portfolios is updated substantially as described in .

Various embodiments of the invention may comprise a method and system for retrieving substitute data to replace damaged media data for playback in media player. The reader processing system is utilized to determine via the defect processing block presence of defects in the media storage element and to retrieve via replacement controller replacement data from the media management server . The media storage element is utilized to store various types of data including media data that is played back via the PC and or the fixed media player . The retrieval of the replacement data is performed during playback and or use of the media storage element via the reader processing system . The replacement data is utilized during real time playback of the media storage element . The replacement data is also stored to facilitate subsequent playback operations. The replacement data is stored within the memory of the reader processing system into the media storage element via the reader processing system in accessible and unused regions in the media storage element and or into external storage devices that are accessible during playback operations. Addressing information is created and or modified to enable use of stored replacement data. A whole new copy of the data is created where the presence and or extent of the defects completely bars data reads from the media storage element . The new data image is written into the media storage element via the reader processing system in accessible and unused regions in the media storage element or into a new storage device where is the media storage element is deemed unusable. The reader processing system is then utilized to ensure that the data reads from the media storage element is permanently disabled.

During replacement data retrieval operations the media management server performs access authentication operations via the account management entity the license verification and or the copy verification entity . The media management server also enables creating and or modifying user related portfolios via the personal media portfolios to facilitate future product verifications and or user communicating. The media management server enables interactions by remote users to request replacement data wherein the user interactions are based on webpage liked interfaces via the user interface and or based on dedicated APIs via the API interface .

Another embodiment of the invention may provide a machine and or computer readable storage and or medium having stored thereon a machine code and or a computer program having at least one code section executable by a machine and or a computer thereby causing the machine and or computer to perform the steps as described herein for retrieving substitute data to replace damaged media data for playback in media player.

Accordingly the present invention may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present invention may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the present invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

