---

title: Referencing data in triggers from applications
abstract: In accordance with one or more aspects of the referencing data in triggers from applications, a device can store multiple triggers for media content. For each of these triggers, a check is made as to whether a presentation of media content satisfies a criteria portion of the trigger. When the presentation satisfies the criteria portion, one or more actions in a payload portion of the trigger are performed. Additionally, data in the triggers can be referenced by applications executing on the device. These applications include applications that are launched as part of the one or more actions when the criteria portion of a trigger is satisfied, as well as other applications executing on the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08707342&OS=08707342&RS=08707342
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08707342
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080930
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 141 924 filed Jun. 19 2008 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

With the merging of computing devices and television viewing enhanced functionality beyond that available in typical televisions can be made available to television viewers. For example applications running on computing devices can display user interfaces concurrently with television programs being displayed. Unfortunately difficulties remain in tying the behavior of such applications to the particular television programs being displayed and or to the desires of the application authors. This can be problematic because it makes authoring and deploying such applications more difficult.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In accordance with one or more aspects for each of multiple triggers a check is made on a device as to whether a presentation of media content satisfies a criteria portion of the trigger. When the presentation satisfies the criteria portion one or more actions in a payload portion of the trigger are performed the one or more actions including launching an application. A reference to data in the trigger is also received from the application and the referenced data in the trigger is returned to the application.

In accordance with one or more aspects a reference to data in a trigger is received from an application executing on a device. The trigger includes both a criteria portion and a payload portion. The criteria portion identifies one or more criteria and the payload portion identifies one or more actions to be performed when the one or more criteria are satisfied by data corresponding to media content being presented. The referenced data is returned to the application.

In accordance with one or more aspects a device includes a trigger store and a monitor module. The trigger store is to store multiple triggers each of the multiple triggers comprising a criteria portion and a payload portion. The criteria portion identifies one or more criteria and the payload portion identifies one or more actions to be performed. The monitor module is to monitor data corresponding to media content being presented and detect when the data satisfies the one or more criteria of one of the multiple triggers. The monitor module is also to perform the one or more actions identified in the one trigger when the data satisfies the one or more criteria and to allow data in the trigger to be referenced by an application executing on the device.

Referencing data in triggers from applications is discussed herein. A trigger for use with media content includes both a criteria portion and a payload portion. The criteria portion includes one or more criteria that are to be satisfied. When the one or more criteria are satisfied one or more actions included in the payload portion are performed. These one or more actions can include launching an application. Applications can also reference data within the payload portion of one or more triggers in different manners such as through data binding or an application programming interface API allowing applications to access and obtain data from triggers.

Consumer device includes a media content playback module a monitor module and a trigger store . Media content refers to one or more of a variety of different types of content that can be played back to a user. Oftentimes media content is audio video content e.g. particular programs such as movies sitcoms commercials news broadcasts documentaries sporting events and so forth . Alternatively media content can be only one type of content e.g. just audio content just video content etc. or can be other types of content e.g. images text and so forth .

Media content playback module receives media content and outputs media content . Media content playback module converts media content into a format that can be played back e.g. displayed by a display device played back by speakers etc. and outputs the converted media content as media content . Media content playback module can also receive input from a user e.g. via a remote control device or other component or module of device to control the output of media content such as to pause playback of the content select particular media content for playback fast forward or rewind through the media content and so forth.

Media content along with trigger result as discussed in more detail below are output by consumer device as media output . In one or more embodiments consumer device plays back media output e.g. displays video content plays back audio content and so forth . In other embodiments consumer device generates one or more signals based on media content and or trigger result that is output to one or more other devices e.g. televisions projectors speakers etc. which in turn present media output . In one or more embodiments consumer device can play back or generate signals based on multiple different media content concurrently as media output . This different media content can be played back for example in different portions of a screen e.g. Picture in Picture or other windows or frames on different screens or displays and so forth. The criteria for different triggers can be satisfied by different ones of the media content resulting in different trigger results for the different media content.

Media content can be received from a variety of different sources. These sources can be local sources such as a hard disk or a DVD that is inserted into coupled to or included as part of consumer device . These sources can also be remote sources such as one or more remote servers or other devices making content available to consumer device . Remote sources can make content available over a variety of different types of networks such as one or more of the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network a telephone network an intranet and so forth.

In one or more embodiments media content also includes metadata. The metadata can be included as part of e.g. embedded in other types of content e.g. included in a vertical blanking interval VBI of video content included in a packet header and so forth . Alternatively this metadata can be separate from other types of content such as being included in a separate stream or channel from the audio video and or other types of content. This metadata included in media content is associated with and describes the audio video and or other types of content in media content . Examples of such metadata include closed captioning data that is a text version of the audio content included in media content teletext data corresponding to media content song or program title information corresponding to media content and so forth.

Trigger store receives and stores triggers . Triggers can be received from a variety of different sources. Analogous to media content these sources can be local sources or remote sources making triggers available over a variety of different types of networks. By way of example triggers can be received with media content e.g. embedded therein as part of a separate stream in metadata of the media content etc. can be received with programming guide data can be received via a separate communication with a trigger source and so forth.

Each trigger includes a payload portion identifying one or more actions to be performed and a criteria portion identifying one or more criteria that are to be satisfied in order for the one or more actions to be performed. Trigger store can be implemented as part of consumer device or alternatively can be implemented on a removable storage device e.g. optical disk flash memory etc. or on a remote storage device e.g. a server computer other consumer device etc. .

Payload portion identifies one or more actions to be performed when the criteria in portion are satisfied. Indicating that the one or more actions in payload portion are to be performed due to the criteria in portion being satisfied is also referred to as firing trigger . A variety of different actions can be included in payload portion . For example the one or more actions in a payload portion can include displaying advertising content creating a new trigger executing an application retrieving and displaying content from a remote source e.g. as identified by a Uniform Resource Locator URL firing another trigger and so forth.

Various criteria can be included in criteria portion . In one or more embodiments this criteria includes an identifier of particular media content. This identifier can be for example a title or name of the particular media content a summary or other description of the content or some other identifier. When such criteria are included in criteria portion the one or more actions in payload portion are performed only when that particular identified media content is being presented.

In one or more other embodiments criteria portion includes a time range. This time range can be for example a range of seconds minutes hours days and so forth. During presentation of media content a current time is maintained and or accessed. This current time can be for example a system or device time maintained by the consumer device present in the media content. When such time range criteria are included in criteria portion the one or more actions in payload portion are performed only when the current time is within the time range identified in criteria portion .

In one or more other embodiments criteria portion includes a channel identifier. This channel identifier can be for example a channel number a call sign or other identifier of a broadcaster associated with the channel and so forth. When such criteria are included in criteria portion the one or more actions in payload portion are performed only when the media content on that identified channel is being presented and or that identified channel is tuned to.

Additionally data from trigger can be referenced by an application allowing the application to retrieve or obtain particular data from trigger . This data made available to the application can be one or more criteria from criteria portion one or more actions from payload portion or other data stored in trigger . This application to which the data of the trigger is made available can be monitor module of or alternatively another application executing on device of . Additionally this application to which the data of the trigger is made available can be an already executing application or alternatively an application that is executed in response to the one or more criteria in criteria portion being satisfied. The data can be made available to application in one or more of a variety of different manners such as passing the data as one or more parameters when application begins execution e.g. is launched by exposing an API that application can invoke to obtain the data through data binding by receiving messages or other notifications from monitor module of and so forth. Additionally the data of the trigger can be made available to application regardless of whether the one or more criteria in criteria portion are satisfied.

Returning to monitor module monitors media content and or playback module to identify when the criteria of one or more triggers are satisfied. Monitor module can communicate with playback module to identify the particular media content being output by module at any given time. Alternatively monitor module can receive media content and monitor this received content directly rather than via playback module . Additional information regarding playback media content can also be obtained from playback module such as an identifier of a program being played back an identifier of a channel tuned to and so forth.

In one or more embodiments monitor module monitors the metadata of media content and or media content in determining whether and when the criteria of a trigger are satisfied. When monitor module determines that the one or more criteria of a trigger are satisfied monitor module performs the one or more actions in the payload portion of the trigger. In response to performing these one or more actions monitor module generates a trigger result that is output by consumer device . Media content and or trigger result are output by consumer device as media output . Media content and trigger result can be output concurrently as media output or alternatively separately as discussed in more detail below.

Trigger result can be the output of a variety of different types of content such as video content image content audio content and so forth as discussed above. Trigger result can be presented concurrently with presentation of media content . For example trigger result can be video content or an image that is displayed overlaid on media content such as a small icon at the bottom of a display. These small icons can also be referred to as bugs . By way of another example trigger result can be audio content that is played back concurrently with media content . By way of yet another example trigger result can be video text graphic image and so forth content that is displayed in a window such as a picture in picture PIP window separate from media content . Alternatively trigger result can be presented separately from the presentation of media content . For example playback of media content can be paused while trigger result is presented.

Additionally it should be noted that in order to perform the one or more actions identified in the payload portion of a trigger monitor module may access one or more other devices. For example monitor module may access a remote device over a network to retrieve content to be displayed as trigger result . In one or more embodiments monitor module accesses a remote server over the Internet to retrieve one or more images or Web pages to be displayed as trigger result .

Alternatively in one or more embodiments monitor module invokes one or more other components or modules to generate the presentation of trigger result . For example monitor module can invoke a Web browser module a remote device communication module e.g. supporting RDP Remote Desktop Protocol other applications that display or otherwise present content and so forth. Such other components or modules can be invoked in a variety of different manners such as firing an event that is dispatched to the appropriate component or module by an event dispatcher invoking an application programming interface API exposed by the component or module and so forth.

One or more actions in the payload portion of a trigger can involve execution of an application on device e.g. application of . This application can perform a variety of different functions. In one or more embodiments the application presents a user interface to the user of device . This user interface can display or otherwise present information to the user such as advertising content a web page e.g. retrieved over the Internet from a URL in the trigger additional information describing the media content being presented and so forth. The user interface can also support user interaction allowing the user to input a variety of different information or selections such as entering an email address of the user selecting a link to a web page selecting a displayed icon and so forth.

The application can also perform other operations in addition to or in place of presenting a user interface. For example an application can monitor the performance of device an application can alter settings of device to improve the quality of the playback of the media content an application can record or schedule a recording of other media content and so forth.

It should be noted that the application can be explicitly identified by the trigger such as by having an identifier and or location of the application being included in the trigger. Alternatively the trigger can be identified in other manners. In one or more embodiments monitor module can maintain a record or mapping of particular types of actions to particular programs. For example monitor module can maintain a record that URLs are associated with a Web browser application. Accordingly a Web browser application is inherently identified by a trigger including an action of a URL. Alternatively such a record or mapping can be pre programmed into module can be maintained or pre programmed into another component or module and so forth.

The application can execute on device in a variety of different manners. The application can be a stand alone program or alternatively a program that incorporates or accesses instructions from other libraries components and so forth. The application can be a compiled program uncompiled program scripting language application and so forth.

In one or more embodiments this application is an application that is launched by one or more of the actions in the payload portion of the trigger. One or more of the actions can identify an application that is to be launched. When the trigger is fired monitor module identifies this application and launches initiates execution of the application. In one or more embodiments monitor module launches the application only if the application is not already executing.

In other embodiments this application is an application that is already executing on device . One or more actions can identify an application that is to be notified. When the trigger is fired monitor module identifies this application and sends a message to or otherwise notifies this application.

Regardless of whether the application is launched or is an already executing application data from the fired trigger is made available to the application. This data can take a variety of different forms including one or more criteria from the criteria portion of the fired trigger and or data from the payload portion of the fired trigger. In situations where less than all of the criteria in the criteria portion caused the trigger to be fired e.g. if three out of five criteria were satisfied then the data can include the criteria that caused the trigger to be fired and or the criteria that did not cause the trigger to be fired.

The payload portion of the trigger can also include data to be made available to the application. The data can be included in the payload portion in different manners. For example the action in the payload portion that identifies the application can also identify the data that can be obtained by the application. By way of another example the data can be stored separately in the payload portion such as using a separate attribute or other identifier or a particular part of the payload portion.

The data can be made available to the application in a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments monitor module exposes an API that can be invoked by the applications to obtain the data. In other embodiments an application can obtain the data in other manners such as using data binding receiving a message or other notification from monitor module and so forth.

The following describes an example API that can be exposed by monitor module and invoked by an application to obtain data from a trigger. The API makes use of the following enumeration 

The API exposed by monitor module exposes a GetValueCount interface and a GetValue interface. The GetValueCount interface returns the count of sessions or triggers keys within the sessions or triggers or values within the sessions or triggers. The GetValue interface returns a particular value.

The following GetDataAndState interface is an example of the use of the GetValueCount interface and the GetValue interface. The GetDataAndState interface accesses a trigger uses the GetValueCount interface to identify how many values are associated with a particular key and uses the GetValue interface to retrieve those values.

An application can also reference data in a trigger in other manners such as by using data binding. Generally data binding allows an application to reference specific data in the trigger and retrieve or otherwise obtain that data. Data binding can be accomplished in a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments a markup language is used to define data that can be referenced by an application. Monitor module generates an object for each of these data allowing the application to access the data from these objects.

The following are two example triggers and an example way in which markup language used by an application can be used to reference or bind to the data in the triggers. The first example trigger is 

These two example triggers can be referenced or bound to using the following example markup language 

Monitor module can be implemented to monitor the data of media content and compare it to triggers in a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments monitor module or alternatively another component or module generates trigger objects session objects and data objects. A trigger object is generated for each trigger and includes the criteria and actions to be performed from the criteria and payload portions of the trigger . A session object is also generated that describes the current media content session. The session object includes data of the media content e.g. channel number via which the media content is being received call sign of the channel via which the media content is being received title of the programming that is distributed as the media content and so forth . Metadata of the media content or other types of data being monitored by module is typically not included in this session object but rather is analyzed as it is received. Alternatively this metadata or other type of data can be included in the session object. The data objects include data from triggers that can be referenced by applications as discussed above.

Triggers can be provisioned triggers and or application based triggers. A provisioned trigger refers to a trigger that is distributed to consumer device by some remote device or component. This distribution is initiated by the remote device or component and the provision triggers typically remain in trigger store until they expire or are updated by the remote device or component. An application based trigger refers to a trigger that is added to trigger store by an application or module running on consumer device . Application based triggers typically remain in trigger store while the application is running and are removed from trigger store when the application stops running. Triggers can be embedded in media content or alternatively obtained from other sources.

In one or more embodiments all of the criteria included in the criteria portion of the trigger need to be satisfied in order for the one or more actions for presenting advertising content to be performed. Alternatively various logical operators such as AND and OR can be used in conjunction with the criteria to allow different combinations to be defined. For example four different criteria could be listed at least one of which is to be satisfied in order for the one or more actions for presenting advertising content to be performed. By way of another example three different criteria could be listed a particular one of which and either one or both of the other two is are to be satisfied in order for the one or more actions for presenting advertising content to be performed.

Additionally it should be noted that criteria can be full match or partial match criteria. Full match criteria indicates that the criteria is to match the data of the programming content exactly whereas partial match criteria indicates that the data of the programming is to include at least the partial match criteria. For example if the data of the programming were Microsoft Corporation and the criteria were Corporation then the criteria would be a partial match to the data of the programming but not a full match. Whether criteria is full match or partial match can be inherent in the particular criteria or identified in other manners such as including a flag or other value with the criteria indicating whether it is full match or partial match.

Furthermore partial match criteria can be a starts with partial match an anywhere partial match or other type of partial match. A starts with partial match indicates that the data of the programming is to start with the criteria whereas an anywhere partial match indicates that the criteria can be included anywhere in the data of the programming. For example if the data of the programming were Microsoft Corporation and the criteria were Corporation then the criteria would be an anywhere partial match to the data of the programming but not a starts with partial match. Other types of partial matches can also be defined using regular expressions. For example quantifiers or wild cards can be used such as to indicate zero or more characters to indicate zero or one characters and so forth. Whether partial match criteria is starts with or anywhere criteria or alternatively other criteria can be inherent in the particular criteria or can be identified in other manners such as including a flag or other value with the criteria indicating whether it is starts with or anywhere.

In one or more embodiments trigger result is presented for a particular amount of time. The duration of the presentation of trigger result can be the same for all triggers or alternatively vary by trigger. In one or more embodiments each trigger includes as part of its payload portion an identifier of the duration of the presentation of trigger result for that particular trigger. Alternatively the duration can be identified in different manners. For example monitor module can be programmed or otherwise configured with an indication of the duration media content can identify durations for trigger results occurring during presentation of media content and so forth.

Additionally in one or more embodiments monitor module performs the actions in a trigger once. After the actions have been performed once monitor module no longer performs the actions even though the criteria of the trigger may be satisfied. Alternatively in other embodiments monitor module can perform the actions in a trigger each time the criteria are satisfied. In such embodiments monitor module can restrict how frequently the actions can be performed. For example even though the criteria may be satisfied every 30 seconds monitor module can restrict the actions to being performed no more than once every five minutes.

Such restrictions can be imposed by monitor module in a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments a trigger includes an indication of how frequently the actions can be performed. This indication can be included for example in the payload portion of the trigger. When the criteria of a trigger are satisfied and the one or more actions performed monitor module obtains an indication of how frequently the one or more actions can be performed. This indication can indicate a time e.g. 30 seconds five minutes once per day etc. in which case monitor module does not perform the one or more actions until after that amount of time has elapsed. Monitor module need not check whether the criteria of that trigger are satisfied until after that indicated frequency is passed. Alternatively monitor module may check whether the criteria of the trigger are satisfied but not perform the one or more actions until after that indicated frequency is passed. Alternatively this indication can be a count value e.g. 5 8 12 50 etc. in which case monitor module keeps track of how many times the one or more actions have been performed in response to the criteria being satisfied and does not perform the one or more actions after the count value has been reached. This count value can optionally be reset at regular or irregular intervals e.g. hourly daily each time a new program begins or a channel change occurs and so forth .

It should be noted that conflict situations can arise where the criteria of multiple different triggers are satisfied concurrently. Such conflicts can be resolved in a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments each trigger includes a priority value and the conflict is resolved by performing the actions for the trigger with the higher priority value. In other embodiments monitor module can keep track of when the actions for the different triggers have been performed. In such embodiments these conflicts can be resolved by performing the actions for the trigger that least recently had its actions performed. Alternatively these conflicts can be resolved in other manners such as random selection of a trigger concurrent presentation of multiple triggers selecting a trigger based on payments received selecting triggers according to some other criteria or rules and so forth.

As discussed above a variety of different criteria can be included in the criteria portion of a trigger. Table I lists example criteria that can be included in the criteria portion of a trigger in accordance with one or more embodiments. It is to be appreciated that Table I lists only example criteria not all of the criteria in Table I need be used or alternatively additional criteria can be included.

Some additional example triggers and trigger formats are discussed in the following. It is to be appreciated that these are only examples and that other formats and triggers can be used with the referencing data in triggers from applications discussed herein. One example trigger is 

This example trigger indicates that the criteria are a program title TITLE is to be xyz . If that criteria is satisfied then an action EVENT of act1 with a parameter of parameter1 is to be performed. This action act1 can be for example launching an application or notifying an already executing application. Additionally the parameter1 value can be referenced by the application as data in a variety of different manners as discussed above. Furthermore other data from the trigger such as the title could be referenced by the application.

This example trigger indicates that the criteria are a program title TITLE is to be xyz and a channel on which the program is played back CHANNEL is to be 274 . If the criteria are satisfied the content at a particular location identified by someURL is to be displayed or otherwise presented. In this example the application is inherent in the trigger e.g. the application is a Web browser . Furthermore other data from the trigger such as the title or the channel could be referenced by the application in a variety of different manners as discussed above.

In process triggers are accessed act . Each trigger can be accessed in a variety of different manners such as by retrieving the trigger from a trigger store as discussed above. Additionally data corresponding to media content is accessed act . This data corresponding to media content can include the media content itself e.g. metadata audio data video data and so forth as well as other data describing the media content or its presentation e.g. an identifier of the media content a channel via which the media content is received and so forth .

A check is then made as to whether the data corresponding to the media content satisfies the criteria of one or more of the triggers act . A variety of different criteria can be included in a trigger as discussed above. This check is repeated until the criteria of one of the triggers is satisfied. When the criteria of one of the triggers is satisfied one or more actions included in a payload portion of that one trigger are performed act . These one or more actions can include a variety of different actions as discussed above.

Process then returns to act continuing to access triggers and data corresponding to media and checking whether the data corresponding to the media content satisfies the criteria of one of the triggers.

Additionally data in the one trigger is also referenced by an application act and the referenced data is returned to the application act . As discussed above this reference can be received in a variety of different manners as discussed above such as through an API through data binding and so forth. It should also be noted that the data in the trigger can be stored in different forms such as being stored in a markup language file being stored in an object and so forth. Additionally as discussed above the application referencing the data can be launched by the firing of the trigger e.g. as one of the actions in act or can be an already executing application. Accordingly acts and can be performed after act or alternatively can be performed independently of acts e.g. can be performed whenever an application references data in a trigger regardless of whether the criteria of the trigger are satisfied . Process then returns to act to receive another reference to data in a trigger from an application.

Each of client systems N includes a respective television client device N and a respective display device N such as any type of television monitor LCD projector or similar television based display system that renders audio video and or image data. Any of client devices N can be implemented as any one or combination of a television client device a gaming system or as any other computing based device such as a desktop computer a portable computer a television set top box a digital video recorder DVR an appliance device a gaming console and or as any other type of computing based client device. Any of television client devices N may also be associated with a user e.g. a person and or an entity that operates a client device such that a television client device describes logical clients that include users software and or devices.

Any of television client devices N of the respective client systems N can be implemented with one or more processors a communication module memory components a media content rendering system and a monitor module and trigger store to implement embodiments of referencing data in triggers from applications. Additionally each of television client devices N can be configured for communication with any number of different content distributors to receive any type of media content via the communication network . Further any of the television client devices N can be implemented with any number and combination of differing components as further described with reference to the example client device shown in .

In this example of client device is a television set top box that is connected or otherwise communicatively linked to a computing device that can be implemented to display trigger results . Although example trigger results are illustrated in it is to be appreciated that trigger results can be presented in other manners as discussed above. Computing device can also be configured for communication with a content distributor to receive the trigger e.g. triggers of via the communication network .

Consumer device includes one or more media content inputs that may include Internet Protocol IP inputs over which streams of media content are received via an IP based network. Consumer device further includes communication interface s that can be implemented as any one or more of a serial and or parallel interface a wireless interface any type of network interface a modem and as any other type of communication interface. A wireless interface enables client device to receive control input commands and other information from an input device such as from remote control device a portable computing based device such as a cellular phone or from another infrared IR 802.11 Bluetooth or similar RF input device.

A network interface provides a connection between consumer device and a communication network by which other electronic and computing devices can communicate data with device . Similarly a serial and or parallel interface provides for data communication directly between client device and the other electronic or computing devices. A modem facilitates client device communication with other electronic and computing devices via a conventional telephone line a DSL connection cable and or other type of connection.

Consumer device also includes one or more processors e.g. any of microprocessors controllers and the like which process various computer executable instructions to control the operation of device to communicate with other electronic and computing devices and to implement embodiments of referencing data in triggers from applications. Consumer device can be implemented with computer readable media such as one or more memory components examples of which include random access memory RAM nonvolatile memory e.g. any one or more of a read only memory ROM flash memory EPROM EEPROM etc. and a disk storage device. A disk storage device can include any type of magnetic or optical storage device such as a hard disk drive a recordable and or rewriteable compact disc CD a DVD a DVD RW and the like.

Computer readable media provides data storage mechanisms to store various information and or data such as software applications and any other types of information and data related to operational aspects of consumer device . For example an operating system and or other computer applications can be maintained as software applications with the computer readable media and executed on processor s to implement embodiments of the referencing data in triggers from applications.

Consumer device can also include a program guide application that is implemented to process program guide data and generate program guides for display. A program guide enables a viewer to navigate through an onscreen display and locate various media content such as broadcast programs recorded programs video on demand programs and movies interactive game selections network based applications and other media content of interest to the viewer. Consumer device can also include a monitor module shown as a software module in this example to implement various embodiments of referencing data in triggers from applications as described herein.

Consumer device can also include a DVR system with playback application and recording media to maintain recorded media content that consumer device receives and or records. Further consumer device may access or receive additional recorded media content that is maintained with a remote data store not shown . Consumer device may also receive media content from a video on demand server or media content that is maintained at a broadcast center or content distributor that distributes the media content to subscriber sites and client devices. Playback application is a video control application that can be implemented to control the playback of media content the recorded media content and or other video on demand media content music and any other audio video and or image media content which can be rendered and or displayed for viewing. Playback application can be for example media content playback module of .

Consumer device also includes an audio and or video output that provides audio and or video data to an audio rendering and or display system . Audio rendering and or display system can include any devices that process display and or otherwise render audio video and image data. Video signals and audio signals can be communicated from consumer device to a display device via an RF radio frequency link S video link composite video link component video link DVI digital video interface analog audio connection or other similar communication link. Alternatively audio rendering and or display system can be implemented as integrated components of the example consumer device . Consumer device along with the audio rendering and or display system is an example of a viewing system that can be implemented in a household viewing area for viewing television programs and or receiving other television media content.

Communication network can be implemented as any one or combination of a wide area network e.g. the Internet a local area network LAN an intranet an IP based network a broadcast network a wireless network a Digital Subscriber Line DSL network infrastructure a point to point coupling infrastructure or as any other media content distribution network. Additionally communication network can be implemented using any type of network topology and any network communication protocol and can be represented or otherwise implemented as a combination of two or more networks. A digital network can include various hardwired and or wireless links N routers gateways and so on to facilitate communication between content distributor and client systems N .

System includes a media server that receives media content from a content source program guide data from a program guide source and advertising content from an advertisement source . This advertising content can be advertising content associated with triggers as discussed above e.g. advertising content displayed when the criteria of a trigger is satisfied and or different advertising content presented to users of system . In one or more embodiments media server represents an acquisition server that receives the audio and video media content from content source an EPG server that receives the program guide data from program guide source and or an advertising management server that receives the advertising content from the advertisement source .

Content source program guide source and advertisement source control distribution of the media content the program guide data and at least some of the advertising content to the media server and or to other servers. The media content program guide data and advertising content can be distributed via various transmission media such as satellite transmission radio frequency transmission cable transmission and or via any number of other wired or wireless transmission media. In this example media server is shown as an independent component of system that communicates the media content program guide data and advertising content to content distributor . In an alternate implementation media server can be implemented as a component of content distributor .

Content distributor is representative of a headend service in a content distribution system for example that provides the media content program guide data and advertising content to multiple subscribers e.g. the client systems N . Content distributor can be implemented as a satellite operator a network television operator a cable operator and the like to control distribution of media content program and advertising content such as movies television programs commercials music and other audio video and or image content to client systems N .

Content distributor includes various content distribution components to facilitate media content processing and distribution such as a subscriber manager a device monitor and one or more content servers. The subscriber manager manages subscriber data and the device monitor monitors client systems N e.g. and the subscribers and maintains monitored client state information.

Although the various managers servers and monitors of content distributor to include media server in one or more embodiments are described as distributed independent components of content distributor any one or more of the managers servers and monitors can be implemented together as a multi functional component of content distributor . Additionally any one or more of the managers servers and monitors described with reference to system can implement features and embodiments of referencing data in triggers from applications.

Content distributor includes communication interface s that can be implemented as any type of interface to communicate and receive data from client devices of the television system. Content distributor also includes one or more processors e.g. any of microprocessors controllers and the like which process various computer executable instructions to control the operation of content distributor . Content distributor can be implemented with computer readable media which provides data storage to maintain software applications such as an operating system and media content for distribution to the client systems N .

Client systems N can each be implemented to include a client device and a display device e.g. a television LCD and the like . A client device of a respective client system can be implemented in any number of embodiments such as a set top box a digital video recorder DVR and playback system an appliance device a gaming system and as any other type of client device that may be implemented in an entertainment and information system. In an alternate embodiment client system N is implemented with a computing device as well as a client device. The computing device is an example of a connected data store that can record and maintain media content for a client device. Additionally any client device of a respective client system can implement features and embodiments of referencing data in triggers from applications as described herein.

Generally any of the functions or techniques described herein can be implemented using software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry manual processing or a combination of these implementations. The terms module and component as used herein generally represent software firmware hardware or combinations thereof. In the case of a software implementation the module or component represents program code that performs specified tasks when executed on a processor e.g. CPU or CPUs . The program code can be stored in one or more computer readable memory devices. The features of the referencing data in triggers from applications techniques described herein are platform independent meaning that the techniques can be implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

