---

title: Table of contents menu over electronic book content on an electronic paper display
abstract: A method for providing table-of-contents extensions for items displayed on an electronic device may include displaying contents of the item other than a table of contents for the item. The method may also include receiving user selection of a navigation option while the contents of the item are being displayed. The navigation option may correspond to a part of the item that is listed in the table of contents for the item. The method may also include navigating to the part of the item corresponding to the navigation option in response to the user's selection of the navigation option.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08621390&OS=08621390&RS=08621390
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08621390
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081021
---
Electronic distribution of information has gained in importance with the proliferation of personal computers and has undergone a tremendous upsurge in popularity as the Internet has become widely available. With the widespread use of the Internet it has become possible to distribute large coherent units of information using electronic technologies.

Advances in electronic and computer related technologies have permitted computers to be packaged into smaller and more powerful electronic devices. An electronic device may be used to receive and process information. The electronic device may provide compact storage of the information as well as ease of access to the information. For example a single electronic device may store a large quantity of information that might be downloaded at any time via the Internet. In addition the electronic device may be backed up so that physical damage to the device does not necessarily correspond to a loss of the information stored on the device.

In addition a user may interact with the electronic device. For example the user may read information that is displayed by the electronic device. Further the user may instruct the device to display a specific piece of information stored on the electronic device. Benefits may be realized from improved systems and methods for interacting with an electronic device.

A method for providing table of contents extensions for items displayed on an electronic device is disclosed. The method may include displaying contents of the item other than a table of contents for the item. The method may also include receiving user selection of a navigation option while the contents of the item are being displayed. The navigation option may correspond to a part of the item that is listed in the table of contents for the item. The method may also include navigating to the part of the item corresponding to the navigation option in response to the user s selection of the navigation option.

The item may be an electronic book e book and the navigation option may correspond to a chapter of the e book. The electronic device may be an electronic book e book reader. Alternatively the item may be a periodical and the navigation option may correspond to an article within the periodical. Alternatively still the item may be a periodical and the navigation option may correspond to a section within the periodical.

The method may also include displaying a navigation menu while the contents of the item are being displayed. The user s selection of the navigation option may be received via the navigation menu. Alternatively the user s selection of the navigation option may be received via a keyboard shortcut.

The method may also include displaying a table of contents menu while the contents of the item are being displayed. The table of contents menu may comprise information from the table of contents for the item.

The method may also include accessing a table of contents table stored on the electronic device. The table of contents table may correspond to a table of contents definition that comprises a plurality of navigation points defined therein. The table of contents definition may further include at least one property defined therein.

An electronic device that is configured for providing table of contents extensions for items displayed on the electronic device is disclosed. The electronic device includes a processor and memory in electronic communication with the processor. The electronic device may also include instructions stored in the memory. The instructions may be executable to display contents of the item other than a table of contents for the item. The instructions may also be executable to receive user selection of a navigation option while the contents of the item are being displayed. The navigation option may correspond to a part of the item that is listed in the table of contents for the item. The instructions may also be executable to navigate to the part of the item corresponding to the navigation option in response to the user s selection of the navigation option.

A computer readable medium for providing table of contents extensions for items displayed on an electronic device is disclosed. The computer readable medium may include executable instructions for displaying contents of the item other than a table of contents for the item. The instructions may also be executable for receiving user selection of a navigation option while the contents of the item are being displayed. The navigation option may correspond to a part of the item that is listed in the table of contents for the item. The instructions may also be executable to navigate to the part of the item corresponding to the navigation option in response to the user s selection of the navigation option.

A method for providing table of contents extensions for items displayed on an electronic device is disclosed. The method may include displaying contents of a first item other than a table of contents for the first item. The method may also include receiving user selection of a navigation option while the contents of the first item are being displayed. The method may also include navigating to a second item in response to the user s selection of the navigation option. The first and second items may be electronic books e books and the electronic device may be an electronic book e book reader.

As used herein the term item may correspond to any type of content. In one case an item may correspond to a digital media item. A media item may include without limitation text content image content audio content video content hypertext protocol content and so on or any combination of these kinds of content. In addition or alternatively an item may include instruction bearing content such as machine readable program code markup language content script content and so forth. For instance an item may correspond to a software upgrade or the like.

More specifically in one case the term item may refer to a specific unit of merchandisable content such as a book e.g. an eBook an issue of a magazine and so on. Alternatively an item may refer to smaller parts of a merchandisable unit such as a chapter of a book or a song in an album. Alternatively an item may refer to a larger compilation of component items which are related in any manner. For instance an item may refer to multiple issues of a magazine in a particular year.

In general the various features described herein may be regarded as optional features meaning that these features may be omitted or replaced with other features. Further the various implementations described herein may be supplemented by adding additional features.

As explained above the term item has broad connotation. The following list which is non exhaustive identifies representative types of items.

An item may correspond to an e book item. An e book item in turn may refer to a book in electronic form or to one or more portions of a book such as a chapter of a book or to a compilation of multiple books such as a book series and so on. An e book is an example of a general class of items referred to herein as pre generated items. The term pre generated item refers to content typically although not necessarily provided to a user in response to the user s on demand request for the content after it has been received and stored by the IPS .

An item of content may also correspond to a subscription related item. A subscription related item refers to any item the user receives based on a schedule or based on some other type of pre established arrangement. Without limitation representative forms of subscription related items include magazines journals newspapers newsletters and so on. Other forms of subscription related items include electronic feeds of various types such as Really Simple Syndication RSS feeds and so on. In contrast to a pre generated item a subscription related item is typically provided to a user in response to the receipt of the item by the IPS rather than the user s on demand request for a pre generated item.

An item may also correspond to a personal document item or simply personal item. A personal item refers to a document the user forwards in advance to the IPS whereupon the IPS converts the item to a device readable format.

An item may also correspond to audio content such as a piece of music a collection of music an audio book and so on. An item may also correspond to a bundle of information generated in response to a query made by the user. An item may also correspond to instruction bearing content such as a software update. An item may also correspond to advertising material downloaded to the user device by any entity or combination of entities. Various rules may be applied to govern the downloading of this type of item.

An item may also correspond to a sample of a more complete version of the item. In one case a sample type item may embed one or more links to allow the user to acquire its full version counterpart or another part e.g. chapter of the item. In another case a publisher or author may release an e book or other item in a series of installments. Each installment may be regarded as an item.

The item providing system IPS corresponds to any functionality or combination of functionality for forwarding items to the user device . In one case the IPS may correspond to network accessible server based functionality various data stores and or other data processing equipment. The IPS may be implemented by a single collection of functionality provided at a single physical site. Alternatively the IPS may be implemented by multiple collections of functionality optionally provided at plural physical sites. The IPS may be administered by a single entity or plural entities.

In one case the IPS corresponds to an entity which provides items to users upon the users purchase of the items. In this role the IPS may essentially act as a bookseller or the like. In one particular commercial environment the IPS may also offer services which allow users to purchase hard copy books for physical delivery to the users in this context the IPS may allow users to download electronic items to respective user devices as part of its entire suite of services. In other cases the IPS corresponds to an entity which provides items to users on a non fee basis or on the basis of some other type of alternative compensation arrangement. Thus the term provider of items should be construed broadly to encompass educational institutions governmental organizations libraries non profit organizations and so on or some cooperative combination of any two or more entities.

The user device corresponds to any type of electronic processing device for receiving items from the IPS . In one implementation the user device is readily portable meaning the user may freely carry the user device from one location to another. In one particular case the user device is designed as a book reader device also known as an e book reader device. In this case the user device functions as the electronic counterpart of a paper based book. The user may hold the user device in a manner similar to a physical book the user may electronically turn the pages of the book and so on.

Without limitation illustrates a particular type of e book reader device. Additional details regarding this particular type of reader device are provided below. Alternatively the user device may correspond to any other type of portable device such as a portable music player a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a game module a laptop computer and so on and or any combination of these types of devices. Alternatively or in addition the user device may correspond to a device which is not readily portable such as a personal computer a set top box associated with a television a gaming console and so on.

A communication infrastructure bi directionally couples the IPS to the user device . Namely the IPS downloads items upgrades and or other information to the user device via the communication infrastructure . The IPS receives various instructions and other data from the user device via the communication infrastructure .

The communication infrastructure may include any combination of communication functionality including any combination of hardwired links and or wireless links etc. For instance to be discussed below in turn shows one implementation of the communication infrastructure which includes a combination of a Wide Area Network WAN and wireless infrastructure. By virtue of the wireless component of the communication infrastructure the user may use the user device to purchase items and consume items without being tethered to the IPS via hardwired links. Thus for instance a user may purchase and consume an e book using the device while riding in a car as a passenger while hiking in a park while boating on a lake and so forth.

The user device receives the list from the IPS in response to the second message note does not specifically identify the transmission of the list from the IPS to the user device . If the instructions identify items to be downloaded in a third message the user device sends a request to the IPS asking the IPS to download the items identified in the list. In a fourth message the IPS downloads the requested items to the user device . In effect the user device retrieves the items using a pull approach but the pull approach is initiated by a push operation by virtue of the IPS pushing a notification message to the user device .

The communication infrastructure may include multiple components. A first component may be a wireless provider system . The wireless provider system corresponds to any infrastructure for providing a wireless exchange with the user device . In one case the wireless provider system is implemented using various data processing equipment communication towers and so forth not shown . The wireless provider system may handle communication traffic where a subset of the communication traffic represents merchant related communication traffic .

Alternatively or in addition the wireless provider system may rely on satellite technology to exchange information with the user device . The wireless provider system may use any form of electromagnetic energy to transfer signals such as without limitation radio wave signals. The wireless provider system may use any communication technology to transfer signals such as without limitation spread spectrum technology implemented for instance using the Code Division Multiple Access CDMA protocol. The wireless provider system may be administered by a single entity or by a cooperative combination of multiple entities.

The communication infrastructure may also include a communication enabling system . One purpose of the communication enabling system is to serve as an intermediary in passing information between the IPS and the wireless provider system . The communication enabling system may expose one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs . The communication enabling system may be implemented in any manner such as without limitation by one or more server type computers data stores and or other data processing equipment.

The communication enabling system may communicate with the wireless provider system via a private pipe also referred to as a dedicated communication pipe or dedicated channel. The private pipe is dedicated in the sense it is exclusively used to transfer information between the communication enabling system and the wireless provider system . In contrast the communication enabling system communicates with the IPS via a non dedicated communication mechanism such as a public Wide Area Network WAN . For example the WAN may represent the Internet. In one case the Wide Area Network WAN may also provide access to other network accessible resource s .

The users may access the IPS through alternative communication routes which bypass the wireless provider system . For instance as indicated by alternative access path a user may use a personal computer or the like to access the IPS via the Wide Area Network WAN circumventing the wireless provider system and the communication enabling system . The user may download items through this route in conventional fashion. The user may then transfer the items from the personal computer to the user device e.g. via a Universal Serial Bus USB transfer mechanism through the manual transfer of a portable memory device and so on. This mode of transfer may be particularly appropriate for large files such as audio books and the like. Transferring such a large amount of data in wireless fashion may have a relatively high cost. However the system may also be configured to transfer large files such as audio files via the wireless exchange .

In another implementation the system may use some other communication infrastructure than is shown in which may optionally omit the use of wireless communication.

Addressing the details of the IPS first this system performs various functions. Different modules are associated with these different functions. One module is a content reception system . The content reception system receives content from one or more sources of content . The sources may represent any type of provider of content such as e book publishers newspaper publishers other publishers of periodicals various feed sources music sources and so on.

The sources may be administered by a single entity or may be administered by separate respective entities. Further the entity administering the IPS may correspond to a same entity which administers one or more of the sources . Alternatively or in addition the entity administering the IPS may interact with one or more different entities administering one or more respective sources . In the latter case the entity administering the IPS may enter into an agreement with the source entities to receive content from these source entities.

In the above example the entities associated with the sources may correspond to commercial organizations or other types of organizations. In another case one or more of the sources may correspond to individual users such as the creators of the items. For example a user may directly provide items to the IPS . Alternatively or in addition a user may supply content to a community repository of items and the IPS may receive content from this repository and so on.

The content reception system may obtain the content through various mechanisms. In one case the content reception system obtains the content via one or more networks . The networks may represent a WAN such as the Internet a Local Area Network LAN or some combination thereof. In one case the network may also provide access to other network accessible resource s . The content reception system may receive the information in various forms using any protocol or combination of protocols. For instance the content reception system may receive the information by making a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP request by making a File Transfer Protocol FTP request by receiving a feed e.g. an RSS feed and so forth.

In another case the IPS may obtain content via a peer to peer P2P network of sources . More generally the content reception system may proactively request the content in an on demand manner based on a pull method of information transfer . Or the content reception system may receive the content in response to independent transfer operations initiated and performed by the sources based on a push method of information transfer . Alternatively the content reception system may use a combination of pull and push transfer mechanisms to receive the content.

The content reception system may receive content in the form of items. Without limitation the items may include e books audio books music magazine issues journal issues newspaper editions various feeds and so forth. In one case the content reception system may receive some items expressed in a format not readable by the user device where the user device may optionally be configured to receive process and present content expressed in one or more predefined formats . To address this situation the content reception system may convert the items from their original format into a device readable format such as without limitation the .mobi format .

The content reception system stores the items received and optionally converts them to another format in a content store . The content store includes one or more storage systems for retaining items in electronic form located at a single site or distributed over plural sites administered by one or more entities.

The IPS also includes a subscription module . The subscription module manages users subscriptions to subscription related items. Generally a subscription entitles a user to receive one or more subscription related items which are yet to be received and stored by the content reception system based on any type of consideration or combination of considerations. Without limitation subscription related item types include magazines journals newsletters newspapers various feeds and so forth. Users may arrange to receive subscription related items by purchasing such subscriptions or more generally by registering to receive such subscriptions which in some cases may not involve the payment of a fee .

Alternatively or in addition the IPS may automatically register users to receive subscription related items without the involvement of the users and possibly without the approval of the users . The latter scenario may be appropriate in the case in which the IPS or some other entity registers a user to receive unsolicited advertisements newsletters and so on. The system may allow the user to opt out of receiving such unsolicited information.

The IPS may consult the subscription module to determine which user devices should receive a newly received subscription related item. For instance upon receiving an electronic issue of the magazine Forbes the IPS consults the subscription module to determine the users who have paid to receive this magazine. The IPS then sends the issue to the appropriate user devices.

An item delivery system represents the functionality which actually performs the transfer of content to the user device . In one illustrative representation the item delivery system includes two components a to do list server module and a content delivery module . The to do list server module generally provides instructions for the user device . The instructions direct the user device to retrieve items and perform other operations. The content delivery module allows the user device to obtain the items identified in the instructions received from the to do list server module .

More specifically in a first phase of information retrieval the to do list server module sends a notification message to the user device . The user device responds to the notification message by waking up if asleep which may involve switching from a first power state to a second power state where the second power state consumes more power than the first power state .

The user device may then contact the to do list server module to request instructions from the to do list server module . More specifically for each user device the to do list server module maintains a list of entries also referred to herein as a to do queue. An entry provides an instruction for a user device to perform an action. As will be described in greater detail below there are different instructions that a device may be directed to perform wherein a collection of instructions defines an IPS device interaction protocol. One such action e.g. associated with a GET instruction of the protocol directs the user device to retrieve an item from a specified location by specifying an appropriate network address e.g. a URL and appropriate arguments.

In a first phase of the downloading procedure the user device may retrieve n such entries wherein n is an integer. In one scenario the number n may be a subset of a total number of items in the to do queue associated with the user device . In a second phase of the downloading procedure the user device may contact the content delivery module to retrieve one or more items identified in the GET related entries.

In general after receiving the notification message the item delivery system may interact with the user device in a data mode e.g. using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or some other protocol or combination of protocols.

The IPS may also include a merchant store module . The merchant store module may provide access to an item catalog which in turn may provide information regarding a plurality of items such as e books audio books subscription related items and so on . As will be described in greater detail below the merchant store module may include functionality allowing a user to search and browse though the item catalog . The merchant store module may also include functionality allowing a user to purchase items or more generally acquire items based on any terms .

In one case a user may interact with the merchant store module via the user device using wireless communication. Alternatively or in addition the user may interact with the merchant store module via another type of device such as a personal computer optionally via wired links. In either case when the user purchases or otherwise acquires an item via the merchant store module the IPS may invoke the item delivery system to deliver the item to the user.

The IPS may also include a personal media library module . The personal media library module may store for each user a list of the user s prior purchases. More specifically in one case the personal media library module may provide metadata information regarding e book items and other on demand selections e.g. a la carte selections such as subscription issues etc. which a user already owns. The personal media library module may also provide links to the items in the content store . As will be described in greater detail below to download an e book item or the like which the user has already purchased the user device contacts the content delivery module .

The content delivery module may interact with permission information and linking information in the personal media library module in order to download the item to the user. In one use scenario the user device may access the content delivery module in this manner to initiate downloading of an item which has been previously purchased by the user but has been deleted by the user device for any reason.

The IPS may also include various security related features such as one or more authorization stores . The authorization stores may provide information which enables various components of the IPS to determine whether to allow the user to perform various functions such as access the merchant store module download items change settings and so on.

The above enumerated list of modules is representative and is not exhaustive of the types of functions performed by the IPS . As indicated by the label Other Server Side Functionality the IPS may include additional functions many of which are described below.

Now turning to the device side features of the system the user device may include a device to do list processing module . The purpose of the device to do list processing module may be to interact with the item delivery system to download items from the item delivery system . Namely in a first phase of the downloading procedure the device to do list processing module may first receive a notification message from the to do list server module which prompts it to wake up if asleep and contact the to do list server module to retrieve a set of n entries.

Each entry may include an instruction which directs the device to do list processing module to perform an action. In a second phase for a GET type entry the device to do list processing module may contact the content delivery module to request and retrieve an item identified by the GET type entry. As will be described in greater detail below the user device may signal a successful completion of the download process or a failure in the download process.

Upon downloading an item the user device may store the item in a device side memory which in one example is a flash type memory and may be any other type of memory in other examples. Although not shown the user device may also exchange information with any other source of content . In one illustrative case the other source of content may represent a personal computer or other data processing device. Such other source of content may transfer an item to the user device via a Universal Serial Bus USB connection and or any other type s of connection s . In this scenario the other source of content in turn may receive the item from the IPS or other source via hardwired connection e.g. non wireless connection . For example to receive an audio book the user may use a personal computer to non wirelessly download the audio book from a network accessible source of such content. The user may then transfer the audio book to the user device via USB connection. In another illustrative case the other source of content may represent a portable memory module of any type such as a flash type memory module a magnetic memory module an optical memory module and so on.

The user device may also include a reader module . The illustrative purpose of the reader module is to present media items for consumption by the user using the user device . For example the reader module may be used to display an e book to the user to provide a user experience which simulates the reading of a paper based physical book.

The user device may also include a content manager module . The purpose of the content manager module is to allow the user to manage items available for consumption using the user device . For example the content manager module may allow the user to view a list of items available for consumption.

The content manager module may also identify the sources of respective items one such source corresponds to the device memory another source corresponds to an attached portable memory e.g. represented by the other source another source corresponds to items identified in the personal media library module as may be revealed in turn by device side metadata provided by the IPS another source corresponds to subscription related items identified by the subscription module and so on. The content manager module may allow the user to filter and sort the items in various ways. For example the user may selectively view items which originate from the device store .

The user device may also include a store interaction module . The store interaction module may allow the user device to interact with the merchant store module . The user may engage the store interaction module to search and browse through items to purchase items to read and author customer reviews and so on. As described above the user may also use a personal computer or the like to interact with the merchant store module via hardwired links.

The above enumerated list of modules is representative and is not exhaustive of the types of functions performed by the user device . As indicated by the label Other Device Side Functionality the user device may include additional functions many of which are described below. In fact shows additional device side functionality. For completeness also identifies the various modules described above including the device to do list processing module the device memory the reader module the content manager module and the store interaction module . These features perform the functions described above.

The user device may also include a home presentation module . The home presentation module may provide a home page when the user first turns on the user device and or at other junctures. The home page may act as a general portal allowing a user to access media items and various features provided by the user device . In one illustrative case the home page may present a summary of some or all of the items available for consumption using the user device .

The user device may also include an audio play module . The audio player module may provide an interface which allows the user to play back and interact with audio items such as music audio books and the like.

The above described features of the user device may pertain to applications with which the user may interact or which otherwise play a high level role in the user s interaction with the user device . The user device may include a number of other features to perform various lower level tasks possibly as background type operations.

Power management functionality performs one such background type operation. More specifically the power management functionality corresponds to a collection of hardware and or software features operating to manage the power consumed by the user device . The power management functionality generally operates to reduce the power consumed by the device . The power management functionality achieves this goal by selectively powering down features not actively being used or for which there is an assumption these features are not actively being used . The power management functionality achieves particularly noteworthy power savings by powering down features which make large power demands such as one or more features associated with wireless communication.

The user device may also include performance Monitoring and Testing MT functionality . The MT functionality maintains a performance log identifying the behavior of the device . The IPS and or other entities may access the performance log along with other information gleaned from the communication infrastructure to help diagnose anomalies in the operation of the user device and the system as a whole. The MT functionality may also interact with testing functionality provided by the IPS and or other entities. For example the MT functionality may respond to test probes generated by the IPS .

The user device may also include an upgrade related functionality . The upgrade related functionality allows the user device to receive and integrate instruction bearing update items such as software updates . In one case the upgrade related functionality may automatically receive instruction bearing items provided by the IPS and or by other entities . An administrator at the IPS may manually initiate the upgrade procedure by which an instruction bearing update item is forwarded to the user device . Or an automated IPS side routine may initiate the upgrade procedure. In any event the user device may receive the instruction bearing update item without the involvement of the user or with minimal involvement from the user. In this sense the upgrade procedure may be viewed as transparent. In another case the upgrade related functionality may be operated by the user to manually access a source of instruction bearing items such as a prescribed website or the like and download an item from this source.

To repeat the above enumerated list of modules is representative and is not exhaustive of the types of functions performed by the user device . As indicated by the label Other Device Side Functionality the user device may include additional functions.

The IPS described above may interact with any type of user device . In one case the user device is a portable type device meaning a device designed to be readily carried from location to location. In one specific case the user device allows the user to consume the media items while holding the user device e.g. in a manner which simulates the way a user might hold a physical book. A portable user device may take the form of an e book reader device a portable music player a personal digital assistant a mobile telephone a game module a laptop computer and so forth and or any combination of these types of devices. Alternatively or in addition the user device may correspond to a device not readily portable such as a personal computer set top box associated with a television gaming console and so on.

Without limitation shows one type of user device which may be used to interact with the IPS . The user device may include a wedge shaped body designed to fit easily in the hands of a user generally having the size of a paperback book. Other user devices may adopt different shapes and sizes.

In one representative design the user device includes two display parts a main display part and a supplemental display part . The main display part presents various pages provided by the store interaction module the reader module and so on. In one case the supplemental display part is used to present a cursor. The user may position the cursor to identify laterally adjacent portions in the main display part . Without limitation in one illustrative case the main display part and or the supplemental display part may be implemented using electronic paper technology such as provided by E Ink Corporation of Cambridge Mass. This technology presents information using a non volatile mechanism using this technology the user device may retain information on its display even when the device is powered off.

The user device includes various input keys and mechanisms. A cursor movement mechanism allows a user to move a cursor within the supplemental display part . In one representative case the cursor movement mechanism may include a five way controller . The five way controller may be similar to a joystick in that it may be moved in four separate directions e.g. left right up down or pressed straight down. The five way controller may be configured to allow the user to select different things by moving the controller in different ways e.g. select one thing by moving the controller to the right and select something else by pressing the controller straight down . Other types of selection mechanisms may be used such as a cursor wheel a five button keypad a trackball a touch sensitive display a series of vertically and or horizontally arrayed keys along the edge s of the main display part one or more graphical scroll bar s in the main display part and so on.

The user device also includes various page turning buttons such as next page buttons and a previous page button . The next page buttons advance the user to a next page in an item relative to a page that is currently being displayed . The previous page button advances the user to a previous page in an item relative to a page that is currently being displayed . The user device may also include a page turning input mechanism actuated by the user s thumb as it passes over the mechanism . This user experience simulates the manner in which a user turns a page in a physical book e.g. by thumbing through a book . The user device may also include a back button allowing the user to advance to a previous page when using the browsing module. Although not shown the user device may include a switch for turning power on and off a switch for enabling and disabling a wireless interface and so on. The user device may also include a keyboard . The keyboard may include alphanumeric keys. The keys may be shaped and oriented in a manner which facilitates the user s interaction with the keys while the user holds the device in the manner of a physical book. The user may use the keyboard to enter search terms annotations URLs and so forth. The user may also use the keyboard to respond to testing content. The keyboard may also include various special function keys.

Reference is now made to . shows an electronic device such as an electronic book e book reader. The electronic device includes multiple files corresponding to items. As explained above the term item has broad connotation and may refer to an eBook item a subscription related item e.g. magazines journals newspapers newsletters a personal document item and so forth. Each item file includes various contents . Different contents may be included within item files corresponding to different types of items. For example the contents within an eBook may include various chapters an index etc. The contents within a subscription related item such as a magazine or newspaper may include various sections and articles.

To help the user to navigate the contents of an item the item file may include a table of contents TOC . One aspect of the present disclosure relates to using the information that is contained within the table of contents for an item to simplify navigation of the item. To facilitate simplified navigation of an item as described herein an item file may include certain data structures including a TOC definition a TOC table a naming table and a reverse index of TOC entries . The reverse index may include the entries that are associated with each position in an item. In this context a position may refer to a page and an entry may refer to a chapter section article etc. Additional information about these data structures will be provided below.

An electronic device may also include various item navigation modules . The item navigation modules may include a module for finding and displaying the first table of contents level a module for finding all the sub entries that are associated with a given entry a module for synchronizing the table of contents with item contents a module for displaying information while a user is reading the contents of a particular item a module for jumping to the next navigation point a module for displaying the progress in the current navigation point and so forth. Additional information about these item navigation modules will be provided below.

Reference is now made to . illustrates a page of an item as it may be displayed on an electronic device while the user is reading the item. At some point while the user is reading the item the user may want to view the table of contents. However the user may not want to navigate all the way back to the table of contents that is included at the beginning of the item.

One aspect of the present disclosure relates to displaying a table of contents menu while the user is viewing contents of an item on an electronic device i.e. while the user is viewing something other than the table of contents itself . For example if the item is an e book the user may be in the middle of reading one of the chapters of the e book. The user may want to view the information contained in the table of contents but the user may not want to navigate all the way back to the table of contents for the e book which is typically located at the beginning of an e book.

In accordance with the present disclosure a table of contents menu may be displayed. The table of contents menu may include an entry for each of the chapters of the e book. This allows the user to view information that is contained within the table of contents without having to navigate all the way back to beginning of the item where the table of contents is displayed. By selecting one of the entries in the table of contents menu the user may navigate to the corresponding location in the item.

Reference is now made to . illustrates a different kind of menu namely a navigation menu . The navigation menu may be displayed while contents of an item are being displayed on the electronic device e.g. while the user is reading a page of an item on an electronic device . The navigation menu includes various navigation options . The navigation options may correspond to entries in the table of contents for the item. For example suppose that the item is a periodical with various sections and articles. These sections and articles may be listed in the table of contents for the periodical. The navigation menu may include a Go To Next Section navigation option and a Go To Next Article navigation option

When the user selects a particular navigation option then the corresponding part of the item may be displayed on the electronic device. For example if the user selects the Go To Next Article navigation option then the beginning of the next article may be displayed on the electronic device.

Displaying a navigation menu allows the user to quickly navigate to the next part of an item that the user is interested in reading without having to view the rest of the current part of the item. For example suppose that the user is reading a periodical that has several articles. If the user is halfway through reading one of the articles and the user decides that he or she is no longer interested in reading any more of that article then the user may cause a navigation menu to be displayed and navigate to the next article by selecting the Go To Next Article navigation option

As an alternative to receiving the user s selection of a navigation option via a navigation menu such as shown in various navigation options may be associated with keyboard shortcuts on an electronic device. This would allow a user to select a particular navigation option by pressing a key or a combination of keys on an electronic device without ever having to display a navigation menu . For example certain navigation options may be selected by means of a five way controller .

Reference is now made to . illustrates an example of a table of contents TOC definition for an e book. The TOC definition includes several different navigation points which may correspond to different parts of an e book. For example the TOC definition may include a title page navigation point a book navigation point and multiple chapter navigation points within the book navigation point . In this context a navigation point is a part of an item that a user may be interested in locating quickly.

Each navigation point in the TOC definition may include a class an identifier a play order a label a content source and so forth. The class may identify the type of navigation point . The identifier may be used to distinguish a particular navigation point from other navigation points . The play order may indicate the position of the navigation point relative to other navigation points in an item. The label may include the text that is displayed in the table of contents for the navigation point . The content source may identify the location in the item file where the content corresponding to the navigation point is stored.

Reference is now made to . illustrates an example of a table of contents TOC table . The TOC table may include the information that is contained within a TOC definition e.g. such as the TOC definition that is shown in . The TOC table may include a number of records . Each record may correspond to a different navigation point within the corresponding TOC definition.

Each record may include an identifier field a title field a class field a level field a parent field a first child field a position field and a length field . The identifier field may be used to distinguish a particular record from other records in the TOC table . The title field may include the text that is included within the label of the navigation point in the TOC definition. Similarly the class field may correspond to the class of the navigation point in the TOC definition. The level field parent field and first child field may indicate the relative position of the navigation point within the overall hierarchy of the table of contents. The position field may indicate where the contents corresponding to the navigation point are located within the corresponding item file and the length field may include information about the size of such contents.

Reference is now made to . illustrates an example of another TOC definition . The TOC definition shown in corresponds to a periodical e.g. a magazine a newspaper etc. . The navigation points within a periodical may be different than the navigation points within an e book. For example a periodical may have different sections e.g. a news section a sports section an entertainment section etc. . Within each section there may be one or more articles. Consequently the periodical TOC definition may include multiple navigation points corresponding to these different parts of a periodical. In particular the periodical TOC definition may include a periodical navigation point . Within the periodical navigation point there may be multiple section navigation points . Within some or all of the section navigation points there may one or more article navigation points

Each navigation point may include some of the same information that was discussed above in relation to the TOC definition shown in . In addition some of the navigation points may include properties . Some examples of the types of properties that may be included within a navigation point include a masthead image property an author property a description property etc.

The masthead image property may include an image that visually identifies the corresponding section navigation point . For example if the section navigation point corresponds to the sports section of a newspaper the masthead image property may include a sports related image. The author property may include information about one or more authors of an article within a section. The description property may include information about a particular article e.g. a summary of an article and or information about an entire section or group of sections.

Reference is now made to . illustrates an example of a naming table . The naming table may be created to store information about the various properties that are included within a TOC definition. The naming table may include multiple records . Each record may correspond to a particular property that is included within a TOC definition.

Each record may include a property name field and a property information vector field which is labeled as XTAG SUB PROPERTY in . The property name field may include a descriptive name for the property. The property information vector field may include several pieces of information including the type the column number and the table number . The type may indicate whether the property is a string an image etc. The column number and the table number may indicate where information about the property is stored in a TOC table.

Reference is now made to . illustrates an example of a TOC table corresponding to a TOC definition that includes properties e.g. such as the TOC definition shown in . The TOC table may include some of the same fields as the TOC table shown in namely an identifier field a title field a level field a parent field a first child field a position field a length field and a class field . Each record may also include a last child field . The last child field may be used along with the parent field and the first child field to determine the relative position of a particular navigation point in the overall hierarchy of a table of contents.

In addition to this information the TOC table may also include information about the properties that are defined. In particular each record may include values of the properties that have been defined. For example where a TOC definition includes an author property e.g. such as the author property in the TOC definition shown in then the corresponding TOC table may include author property values . Similarly where a TOC definition includes a description property and a masthead image property e.g. such as the description property and the masthead image property in the TOC definition shown in then the corresponding TOC table may include description property values and masthead image property values

Reference is now made to . illustrates an example of a method for displaying information about an item while a user is reading the item. This method may be implemented by an item navigation module on an electronic device e.g. the module shown in while the user is reading the item on the device. The method may be implemented in response to user input or the method may be implemented automatically in response to one or more events that do not involve user input.

The method may include determining the current position in the item. For example if the item has multiple pages then the page that the user is currently viewing may be determined .

The method may also include retrieving all TOC entries which contain the current position. This information may be retrieved from a reverse index of TOC entries. For example suppose that the user is reading an article located within a specific section of a periodical. In this case the article the section and the periodical may be retrieved via a reverse index of TOC entries. In addition the text for these entries may be retrieved from a corresponding TOC table. The text may correspond to a title field within the TOC table.

Once the text for these entries has been retrieved then the text may be displayed to the user. The text may be displayed in a table of contents menu e.g. the table of contents menu shown in . Therefore the user is able to see where the part of the item e.g. article section etc. that he or she is reading fits within the overall structure of the item. Advantageously this may be done without the user having to navigate all the way back to the table of contents which is typically located at the beginning of an item.

Reference is now made to . illustrates an example of a method for moving to the next navigation point within an item. The method may be implemented by an item navigation module on an electronic device e.g. the module shown in .

In the present discussion it will be assumed that the user is viewing a periodical that includes sections and articles. However the method is also applicable to other types of items such as e books.

At some point while an item e.g. a periodical is being displayed to a user a navigation request may be received . There are many different ways that a user may make a navigation request. In the present discussion it will be assumed that there are at least two different types of navigation requests. A first type of navigation request e.g. clicking on the five way controller may be associated with advancing to the next article within the periodical and a second type of navigation request e.g. clicking on and holding down the five way controller may be associated with advancing to the next section within the periodical.

In response to receiving the navigation request the type of navigation request that was received may be determined . In particular it may be determined whether the user has requested to advance to the next article or to the next section in the periodical.

If it is determined that the user has requested to advance to the next article within the periodical then the next article relative to the user s current position in the periodical may be determined . The table of contents extensions described herein may make it possible to determine the next article relative to the user s current position. The text corresponding to the next article may then be displayed .

If it is determined that the user has requested to advance to the next section within the periodical then the next section relative to the user s current position in the periodical may be determined . The table of contents extensions described herein may make it possible to determine the next section relative to the user s current position. The text corresponding to the next section e.g. the first article in the next section may then be displayed .

Of course the method may be implemented in connection with additional navigation requests other than those specifically described above. For example instead of advancing to the next article or section within a periodical the method may involve advancing to a different periodical. If the method is implemented in connection with e books then the method may involve advancing to the next chapter within an e book or to a different e book.

Reference is now made to . illustrates an example of a method for displaying the user s progress within the part e.g. chapter section article etc. of an item that the user is reading. The user s progress refers to some indication of how much of a part of an item has been read relative to how much remains to be read e.g. if the user is one quarter one half or three quarters of the way through an article section e book etc. . The method may be implemented by an item navigation module on an electronic device e.g. the module shown in . The method may be implemented in response to user input or the method may be implemented automatically in response to one or more events that do not involve user input.

The method may include determining the current position in the item. The method may also include retrieving all TOC entries which contain the current position. This information may be retrieved from a reverse index of TOC entries.

Of those TOC entries that have been retrieved i.e. those that contain the current position the TOC entry that is most closely associated with the current position may be determined . For example suppose that the user is reading an article within a section and that both the article and the section are listed in the table of contents i.e. there is a TOC entry for the article and also a TOC entry for the section . Because the article is located within the section further suppose that the article TOC entry is a child of the section TOC entry. In this example both the section TOC entry and the article TOC entry are associated with the current position. However because the article TOC entry is a child of the section TOC entry the article TOC entry is more closely associated with the current position than the section TOC entry. Stated another way the article TOC entry is deeper than the section TOC entry in the table of contents.

The position and length of the TOC entry that is most closely associated with the current position may be determined . This may be accomplished using the position and length fields within the corresponding TOC table. From this the user s progress may be determined and then displayed .

The term progress may have different meanings in different contexts. For example under some circumstances the term progress may refer to how much of an entire item e.g. an entire e book has been read. However under other circumstances the term progress may refer to how much of a particular part of an item e.g. a section within a periodical has been read.

Reference is now made to . illustrates an example of a method for retrieving a property value corresponding to a property that is included within a TOC definition. The method may be implemented by an item navigation module on an electronic device. The method may be implemented as part of displaying a TOC menu e.g. the TOC menu shown in where the corresponding TOC definition includes properties.

The method may include opening the appropriate naming table e.g. the naming table shown in . The naming table may be identified in a header field within the item file. The method may also include looking up the name of the property and reading the property values from the naming table e.g. from a property information vector field such as the field labeled XTAG SUB PROPERTY in .

The method may also include iterating on the multiple values until the table number found is equal to a column mapping value which may also be identified in a header field within the item file. Then the corresponding TOC table may be opened . The line number of the section to look for in the TOC table may be retrieved . Then the cell that is defined by this line and the appropriate column number may be read .

It may then be determined whether the property is a string or an image. If the property is a string the method may include reading the values and returning them. If the property is an image then the method may include reading the values determining an absolute record number where the image is stored e.g. by adding the value of a predetermined parameter reading the image binaries at this location and returning the image.

Reference is now made to . illustrates certain components that may be included within an electronic device that is configured for providing table of contents extensions for items on the electronic device in accordance with the present disclosure.

The electronic device includes a processor . The processor may be a general purpose single or multi chip microprocessor e.g. an ARM a special purpose microprocessor e.g. a digital signal processor DSP a microcontroller a programmable gate array etc. The processor may be referred to as a central processing unit CPU . Although just a single processor is shown in the electronic device of in an alternative configuration a combination of processors e.g. an ARM and DSP could be used.

The electronic device also includes memory . The memory may be any electronic component capable of storing electronic information. The memory may be embodied as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices in RAM on board memory included with the processor EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers and so forth including combinations thereof.

Data and instructions may be stored in the memory . The instructions may be executable by the processor to implement various functions. Executing the instructions may involve the use of the data that is stored in the memory .

Some examples of the data in the memory include item contents table of contents within the item contents various parts of the item e.g. chapters sections articles etc. which may be listed in the table of contents for the item a TOC definition navigation points within the TOC definition a TOC table a naming table etc. Other types of data that are relevant to implementing the techniques described herein may also be included in the memory .

Some examples of the instructions in the memory include displaying contents of an item other than the table of contents for the item receiving user selection of a navigation option while the contents of the item are being displayed and instructions for navigating to the part of the item corresponding to the navigation option in response to the user s selection of the navigation option. Other instructions that are relevant to implementing the techniques described herein may also be included in the memory .

The electronic device may also include a transmitter and a receiver to allow transmission and reception of signals between the electronic device and a remote location. The transmitter and receiver may be collectively referred to as a transceiver . An antenna may be electrically coupled to the transceiver . The electronic device may also include not shown multiple transmitters multiple receivers multiple transceivers and or multiple antenna .

The electronic device may also include one or more communication ports for communicating with other electronic devices. Communication with other electronic devices may occur directly and or via a computer network. Some examples of communication ports include Ethernet ports Universal Serial Bus USB ports parallel ports serial ports etc.

The electronic device may also include one or more input devices . Examples of input devices include a keyboard mouse remote control device microphone button joystick trackball touchpad lightpen etc.

The electronic device may also include a display . A display controller may also be provided for converting data stored in the memory into text graphics and or moving images as appropriate shown on the display .

The display may be an electronic paper display which is a display that is capable of holding text and images indefinitely without drawing electricity while allowing the text and images to be changed later. There are several different technologies that may be used to create an electronic paper display including electrophoretic display technology bistable liquid crystal display LCD technology cholesteric LCD display technology etc. Alternatively the display may utilize another image projection technology such as liquid crystal display LCD gas plasma light emitting diode LED etc. One or more other output devices such as audio speakers may also be included in the electronic device .

The various components of the electronic device may be coupled together by one or more buses which may include a power bus a control signal bus a status signal bus a data bus etc. For the sake of clarity the various buses are illustrated in as a bus system .

In the above description reference numbers have sometimes been used in connection with various terms. Where a term is used in connection with a reference number this is meant to refer to a specific element that is shown in one or more of the Figures. Where a term is used without a reference number this is meant to refer generally to the term without limitation to any particular Figure. For example a reference to electronic device refers to the specific electronic device that is shown in . However the use of electronic device without a reference number refers to any electronic device that is appropriate for the context in which the term is used and is not limited to any particular electronic device shown in the Figures.

As used herein the term determining encompasses a wide variety of actions and therefore determining can include calculating computing processing deriving investigating looking up e.g. looking up in a table a database or another data structure ascertaining and the like. Also determining can include receiving e.g. receiving information accessing e.g. accessing data in a memory and the like. Also determining can include resolving selecting choosing establishing and the like.

The phrase based on does not mean based only on unless expressly specified otherwise. In other words the phrase based on describes both based only on and based at least on. 

The term processor should be interpreted broadly to encompass a general purpose processor a central processing unit CPU a microprocessor a digital signal processor DSP a controller a microcontroller a state machine and so forth. Under some circumstances a processor may refer to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmable logic device PLD a field programmable gate array FPGA etc. The term processor may refer to a combination of processing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The term memory should be interpreted broadly to encompass any electronic component capable of storing electronic information. The term memory may refer to various types of processor readable media such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM non volatile random access memory NVRAM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM flash memory magnetic or optical data storage registers etc. Memory is said to be in electronic communication with a processor if the processor can read information from and or write information to the memory. Memory may be integral to a processor and still be said to be in electronic communication with the processor.

The terms instructions and code should be interpreted broadly to include any type of computer readable statement s . For example the terms instructions and code may refer to one or more programs routines sub routines functions procedures etc. Instructions and code may comprise a single computer readable statement or many computer readable statements.

The functions described herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions on a computer readable medium. The term computer readable medium refers to any available medium that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation a computer readable medium may comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers.

Software or instructions may also be transmitted over a transmission medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of transmission medium.

The methods disclosed herein comprise one or more steps or actions for achieving the described method. The method steps and or actions may be interchanged with one another without departing from the scope of the claims. In other words unless a specific order of steps or actions is required for proper operation of the method that is being described the order and or use of specific steps and or actions may be modified without departing from the scope of the claims.

Functions such as executing processing performing running determining notifying sending receiving storing requesting and or other functions may include performing the function using a web service. Web services may include software systems designed to support interoperable machine to machine interaction over a computer network such as the Internet. Web services may include various protocols and standards that may be used to exchange data between applications or systems. For example the web services may include messaging specifications security specifications reliable messaging specifications transaction specifications metadata specifications XML specifications management specifications and or business process specifications. Commonly used specifications like SOAP WSDL XML and or other specifications may be used.

It is to be understood that the claims are not limited to the precise configuration and components illustrated above. Various modifications changes and variations may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the systems methods and apparatus described herein without departing from the scope of the claims.

