---

title: Integration of map services and user applications in a mobile device
abstract: A location is specified, e.g., a current location of a mobile device or a user-specified location. A representation of the location is represented on a map displayed by the mobile device. A set of contacts having a corresponding address in proximity to the location is determined. A graphical representation of the set of contacts is provided on the map proximate to the one or more corresponding addresses. If the location is a current location of a mobile device, the map can be updated in response to the current location changing with a representation of an updated current location and a representation of an updated set of contacts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09109904&OS=09109904&RS=09109904
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09109904
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080125
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 946 898 filed Jun. 28 2007 and entitled Integration of Map Services and User Applications in a Mobile Device the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Conventional mobile devices are often dedicated to performing a specific application. For example a mobile phone provides telephony services a personal digital assistant PDA provides a way to organize addresses contacts and notes a media player plays content email devices provide email communication etc. Modern mobile devices can include two or more of these applications. Typically the two or more applications operate independent of one another and do not share information based on the geographic location of the mobile device.

This invention relates to mobile devices. In general in one aspect the invention features a method including determining a first current location of a mobile device and providing a representation of the first current location on a map. A set of contacts having a corresponding address in proximity to the first current location is determined. A graphical representation of the set of contacts is provided on the map proximate to the one or more corresponding addresses. The map is updated in response to the first current location changing with a representation of an updated current location and a representation of an updated set of contacts.

In some implementations the invention may include one or more of the following features. The method can further include in response to a user interaction with a graphical representation of a contact providing information related to the contact while displaying the map. The method can include in response to a user interaction with a graphical representation of a contact obtaining a page from an address book residing on the mobile device where the address book includes contact information related to the contact and displaying the page from the address book. The page from the address book can be displayed in a first portion of a display of the mobile device and the map displayed in a second portion of the display and the first and second portions can be displayed simultaneously on the display. In another implementation the page from the address book can replace the map on the display and in response to a second user interaction with the page of the address book the page from the address book can be replaced with the map on the display.

The mobile device can include a telephony application. The user can be provided a prompt inquiring whether a telephone number corresponding to one of the contacts should be called in response to receiving a user input to call the telephone number the telephony application can be employed to call the telephone number. In another implementation the user is provided a user control wherein a user can select a control to call a telephone number corresponding to one of the set of contacts. User input can be received selecting the control and in response to the user input employing the telephony application the telephone number is called.

The mobile device can include an email application. The user can be provided a prompt inquiring whether the user desires to compose an email message to an email address corresponding to one of the set of contacts. In response to receiving a user input indicating a desire to compose an email message addressed to the email address the email application can be employed to compose a draft email message. In another implementation a user control can be provided wherein a user can select the control to compose an email message to an email address corresponding to one of the set contacts. A user input can be received selecting the control and in response to said user input the email application is employed to allow the user to compose a draft email message.

The mobile device can include a short messaging service application. A prompt can be provided to a user inquiring whether the user desires to send a short message corresponding to one of the set of contacts. In response to receiving a user input indicating a desire to send a short message to the contact the short messaging service application can be employed to allow the user to compose the short message. In another implementation a user control is provided wherein a user can select the control to send a short message corresponding to one of the set of contacts. A user input selecting the control can be received and in response to said user input the short messaging service application can be employed to allow the user to compose the short message.

The method can further include identifying a user interaction with a graphical representation of one of the set of contacts the contact corresponding to a second geographic location and providing route information indicating a route from the first current location to the second geographic location. Providing route information can include displaying the route on the map. Providing route information can include displaying directions for following the route from the first current location to the second geographic location.

In general in another aspect the invention features a system. The system includes a positioning system a data structure a map application and a display. The positioning system is operable to obtain a current location of a mobile device. The data structure includes contact information for a set of contacts. The map application is operable to provide a display of a map the map including a graphical representation of the current location of the mobile device and including graphical representations of one or more contacts. The graphical representations are displayed at locations corresponding to addresses of the one or more contacts. The display updates as the current location of the mobile device changes. The display is operable to display contact information and the map.

Implementations of the invention can include one or more of the following features. The system can further include a telephony application operable to call a telephone number corresponding to a contact included in an address book in response to a user selecting a graphical representation of the contact displayed on the map. The system can include an email application operable to initiate an email message addressed to an email address corresponding to a contact included in an address book in response to a user selecting a graphical representation of the contact displayed on the map. The system can include a short messaging service application operable to initiate a short message directed to a contact included in an address book in response to a user selecting a graphical representation of the contact displayed on the map. The system can include an engine operable to provide a graphical display on the map of a route from the current location to a location corresponding to a contact that is graphically represented on the map in response to a user selecting the graphical representation of the contact displayed on the map.

Implementations of the invention can realize one or more of the following advantages. A user of a mobile device can conveniently integrate a map application provided by the mobile device with an address book included in or accessible by the mobile device. The user can map his her current location and see where he she is in relation to locations corresponding to contacts included in the user s address book. The user can further conveniently integrate another user application such as a telephony application email application and or text messaging application to communicate with one or more contacts corresponding to one or more locations. Additionally if the user decides to visit a location corresponding to a contact included in the user s address book the user can be immediately provided with a route from the user s current location to the contact s location.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display can implement liquid crystal display LCD technology light emitting polymer display LPD technology or some other display technology. The touch sensitive display can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user.

In some implementations the touch sensitive display can comprise a multi touch sensitive display . A multi touch sensitive display can for example process multiple simultaneous touch points including processing data related to the pressure degree and or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers chording and other interactions. Other touch sensitive display technologies can also be used e.g. a display in which a point of contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. An example of multi touch sensitive display technology is described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 846 6 570 557 6 677 932 and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2002 0015024A1 each of which are incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user to facilitate an intuitive user experience. In some implementations the graphical user interface can include one or more display objects . In the example shown the display objects are graphic representations of system objects. Some examples of system objects include device functions applications windows files alerts events or other identifiable system objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a telephony device as indicated by a phone object an e mail device as indicated by the e mail object a network data communication device as indicated by the Web object and a media processing device as indicated by the media player object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the phone object the e mail object the Web object and the media player object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations each of the device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke the corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement network distribution functionality. For example the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device and its associated network while traveling. In particular the mobile device can extend Internet access e.g. via Wi Fi to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example mobile device can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such mobile device can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.

In some implementations upon invocation of particular device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example in response to a user touching the phone object the graphical user interface of the touch sensitive display may present display objects related to various phone functions likewise touching of the email object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various e mail functions touching the Web object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various Web surfing functions and touching the media player object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various media processing functions.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface environment or state of can be restored by pressing a button located near the bottom of the mobile device . In some implementations each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding home display objects displayed on the touch sensitive display and the graphical user interface environment of can be restored by touching the home display object.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include additional display objects such as a short messaging service SMS object a calendar object a photos object a camera object a calculator object a stocks object a weather object a maps object a notes object a clock object an address book object and a settings object . Touching the SMS display object can for example invoke an SMS messaging environment and supporting functionality likewise each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user e.g. a user may specify which display objects are displayed and or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example a speaker and a microphone can be included to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch sensitive display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch sensitive display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations an ambient light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch sensitive display . In some implementations an accelerometer can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape. In some implementations the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device through an interface e.g. port device to provide access to location based services.

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as an 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi 3G code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE etc.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices a personal computer a printer or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a universal serial bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. In some implementations the port device allows the mobile device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP over USB protocol described in co pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 945 904 filed Jun. 22 2007 for Multiplexed Data Stream Protocol which patent application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other wireless devices cell phones etc. over the wireless network . Likewise the mobile devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication device shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

The mobile device can for example communicate with one or more services and and or one or more content publishers over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example a navigation service can provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device . In the example shown a user of the mobile device for example has invoked a map functionality e.g. by pressing the maps object on the top level graphical user interface shown in and has requested and received a map for the location 1 Infinite Loop Cupertino Calif. 

A messaging service can for example provide e mail and or other messaging services. A media service can for example provide access to media files such as song files movie files video clips and other media data. One or more other services can also be utilized by the mobile device e.g. syncing services software update services activation services .

The mobile device can also access other data and content over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device . Such access can be provided by invocation of web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching the Web object .

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device may include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keyboard.

In some implementations the mobile device can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations the mobile device can include the functionality of an MP3 player such as an iPod . The mobile device may therefore include a 36 pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input output and control devices can also be used.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. The memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other software instructions or data to facilitate other related processes and functions e.g. security instructions activation record .

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

In one implementation the mobile device is location aware i.e. can determine its current location . The user of the mobile device can select the map display object to invoke a map application. The map application provides a display of a map on a display e.g. the touch sensitive display where the map is approximately centered for example about the current location of the mobile device . By way of example the map application can be Google Maps API provided by Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. although other map applications can be used.

The user of the mobile device can select the address book display object to invoke an address book application. The address book includes information corresponding to a set of contacts selected by the user. For example the contact information can include an entity s name e.g. a person corporation etc. address phone number e mail address and or other information related to the person or entity. The address book can be stored within the mobile device or stored externally and accessible by the mobile device .

Referring again to in this implementation the mobile device includes a positioning system . In various implementations the positioning system can be provided by a separate device coupled to the mobile device or can be provided internal to the mobile device. In some implementations the positioning system can employ positioning technology including a GPS a cellular grid URIs or any other technology for determining the geographic location of a device. In some implementations the positioning system can employ a service provided by a positioning service such as for example SkyHook Wireless of Boston Mass. or Rosum Corporation of Mountain View Calif. In other implementations the positioning system can be provided by an accelerometer and a compass using dead reckoning techniques. In such implementations the user can occasionally reset the positioning system by marking the mobile device s presence at a known location e.g. a landmark or intersection . In still other implementations the user can enter a set of position coordinates e.g. latitude longitude for the mobile device. For example the position coordinates can be typed into the phone e.g. using a virtual keyboard or selected by touching a point on a map. Position coordinates can also be acquired from another device e.g. a car navigation system by syncing or linking with the other device. In other implementations the positioning system can be provided by using wireless signal strength and one or more locations of known wireless signal sources to provide the current location. Wireless signal sources can include access points and or cellular towers. Other techniques to determine a current location of the mobile device can be used and other configurations of the positioning system are possible.

In this implementation an integrated map address book feature is provided. By integrating the map application and the address book application provided by the mobile device graphical objects can be displayed on the map representing locations of contacts included in the user s address book. In some implementations each time a user selects to activate the map application the user is asked whether or not the user would like to activate the integrated map address book feature to which the user can respond yes to activate the feature or no to use the map application independent of the address book application. In other implementations the user can set a default as to whether the integrated map address book feature is always on or always off within settings included in the mobile device . In yet other implementations a graphical display object can be provided to specifically activate the map application integrated with the address book application.

By employing the integrated map address book feature advantageously the user is presented with immediate information about persons or entities known to the user that are within a predetermined vicinity to the current location of the mobile device . For example if the user traveled to a city on vacation or for business rather than manually scanning through the user s address book to determined which contacts were located in the city and their relative locations to one another and to a destination of the user the user can employ the integrated map address book feature while present in a location in the city and be provided an immediate visual presentation of this information.

In another implementation the user can request a map of a location other than the current location of the mobile device and employ the integrated map address book feature in relation to the user specified location. That is for example prior to the user traveling to a city on vacation or for business the user can input the address where he she will be staying in the city and employ the feature to be provided an immediate visual depiction of contact locations from the user s address book within a predefined proximity to the user specified location.

Referring now to to an example of a user employing an integrated map and address book service shall be described. In this example a current location of the mobile device and therefore the user is represented on a map at reference numeral . In this implementation as the mobile device moves the previous locations of the mobile device persist on the map and are represented by the line showing the route traveled by the mobile device since the integrated map address book feature was activated by the user.

Two graphical objects are displayed on the map representing the locations of contacts included in the user s address book. In this implementation the graphical objects appear as push pins that are pinned to the map at their corresponding locations. In this example both push pins and are located along the route traveled by the user. In one implementation the user can define a setting within the mobile device for the integrated map address book feature to specify a proximity condition that must be satisfied by a contact before a push pin is shown on the map representing the contact. For example the proximity condition can require that the contact s location be on the route traveled by the mobile device in order to be displayed on the map as a push pin. In another example the proximity condition can require that the contact s location be within a certain radius of the current location of the mobile device in order to be displayed on the map . In yet another example the proximity condition can require only that the contact s location be within the geographic parameters of the map displayed to the user in order to be displayed on the map . In such an example if the user selects to zoom out the map to display a larger geographical area then multiple other push pins may appear corresponding to locations within the larger geographical area.

In some implementations contacts can be displayed in a list. For example the user can touch a location on the map or a dedicated user interface element e.g. a button and a list of contacts in the current vicinity of the user are displayed. The list can be sorted alphabetically and or by other sorting criteria e.g. by distance from user s current location . A single pushpin can represent multiple contacts. For example a single pushpin labeled Office Contacts could include contact information for a user s work colleagues. When a user touches or otherwise interacts with the pushpin a list of contact information for all the contacts is displayed or otherwise becomes accessible to the user. An integer indicating the number of contacts in the list can be displayed on the map proximate the pushpin. Using lists can help reduce pushpin clutter on the map display.

Referring now to the map is shown at a different later point in time. The mobile device has now traveled further east down 9 Ave SW and the geographical area represented by the map has changed. Accordingly a different set of push pins is displayed in this geographical area only one push pin is shown. Referring now to the map is shown at another different later point in time. The mobile device traveled further down 9 Ave SW before turning south onto 1St SE. Again the geographical area represented by the map has changed. The push pin persists on the map as the location represented by the push pin remained within the displayed geographical area additionally another push pin is displayed.

As mentioned above each pushpin represents a contact included in the user s address book. The address book is stored within or accessible by the mobile device . If the user desires to retrieve information about a contact represented by a push pin the user can select the push pin and information included in the address book is retrieved and provided to the user. For example in one implementation where the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display e.g. touch sensitive display shown in the user can touch a push pin to select the push pin and the contact information for the individual or entity corresponding to the push pin is displayed or otherwise presented to the user e.g. as an audio and or video presentation 

In one implementation a single touch of the push pin e.g. a tap on the touch sensitive display can yield a first result and a sustained touch of the push pin can yield a second result examples of first and second results are described below . In another implementation where a user can interact with the map using a pointing device e.g. a joystick hovering a cursor over the push pin can yield the first result and clicking the push pin can yield the second result.

Referring now to one example of information that can be provided to the user upon the user selecting a push pin is shown. In this example the user selected the push pin and a first result is displayed. The first result is displayed in an information balloon superimposed on the map . The information balloon includes contact information e.g. the name address and telephone number of a person represented by the push pin . In this example the user tapped on the touch sensitive display in the vicinity of the push pin to yield this first result being an abbreviated version of the contact information included in the address book for this particular contact. In one implementation the telephone number included within the balloon is a link that can be selected to employ a telephony application to telephone the number.

In some implementations in addition to the contact push pins push pins representing locations of businesses can be presented on the map along a route. The businesses can be presented based on user preferences. In one implementation the user can add the address of the business to their address book so that it can be added to the route. If at least one contact is presented along the route then the address book can be searched for businesses in the vicinity of the user and the contact and the locations of those businesses can be presented on the route as well. For example if the user and a contact have a favorite restaurant in Manhattan then the user can enter the location of the restaurant in the address book and then associate the restaurant with one or more contacts. Thus when the user travels the route one or more contacts and one or more businesses can be presented on the route together. In some implementations the mobile device can automatically invite contacts to meet the user at a business represented on the map e.g. send an email or short message . This association between a business and contact can be made using for example a relational database e.g. MYSQL and an appropriate user interface for specifying the relationship.

Referring now to the user has further selected the push pin to yield a second result being a display of the complete set of contact information for the particular contact represented by the push pin . In the particular example shown a page from the address book is displayed that includes a list of groups of contacts. The group entitled Friends is highlighted. A list of contact names is displayed in a center portion of the page being a list of contact names included in the Friends group. The particular contact represented by the push pin is highlighted that is Rick Edwards. In a right portion of the page contact information for Rick Edwards is displayed. In this example the contact information includes his name home phone number home email address birth date home address and a note.

In one implementation when the user selects the push pin so as to display the second result the page from the address book replaces all or a portion of the display of the map in the display area of the mobile device . The user can select the exit button at the bottom of the page to exit the contact information and return to the display of the map . In another implementation the page can be displayed on a split screen with the display of the map which map is reduced in size to accommodate the smaller surface area of the split screen. Again the user can select the exit button to revert back to a full screen display of the map .

In some implementations address books can be shared between users. For example the mobile device can upload a user s address book to a server forum and or Web property where it can be downloaded and used by other users. For example a user could upload their Friends address book to a Web property e.g. MySpace iTunes where other members of the Friends group could download the contacts onto their mobile devices. In some implementations businesses and or services can be organized in separate address books or groups of contacts e.g. addresses of movie theatres in San Francisco which can be manually or automatically downloaded by users such as subscribers to a service e.g. iTunes store .

The configuration of the graphical user interface representing the page from the address book is but one example and other configurations presenting different more or less information about the contact are possible. Similarly the information balloon can be configured differently and can include different more or less information about the content in other implementations.

In one implementation the mobile device can include a telephony application that is can function as a mobile telephone. For example referring again to the phone object can be selected to employ a telephone application included with or accessible by the mobile device . When the mobile device includes a telephone application in one implementation the telephone application can be integrated with the integrated map address book feature. For example when the user selects a push pin and is provided information about the corresponding contact whether it is abbreviated information such as that shown in the information balloon in or the entire contact information as that shown on the address book page the user can be provided a user control wherein the user can select the control to initiate a call to a telephone number included in the contact information.

By way of illustrative example when the user is provided the information balloon a graphical object can display either within the information balloon or elsewhere superimposed over the map that is similar in appearance to the phone object . The user can select the phone object to automatically initiate a telephone call to the telephone number included in the contact information shown within the information balloon . If more than one telephone number is included in the contact information the user may be prompted to identify which telephone number to telephone e.g. by way of a pop up dialog box.

By way of another illustrative example when the user is provided with the page from the address book displaying the contact information a graphical object can display within the page . The user can select the graphical object which can be similar in appearance to the phone object to initiate a telephone call to the telephone number included in the contact information.

In another implementation the mobile device can include an email application. In yet another implementation the mobile device can include a short messaging service application. Similar to the process described above for automatically initiating a telephone call to a telephone number included in contact information a user can be provided a user control for composing and sending an email message to an email address included in the contact information and or can compose and send a short message sometimes referred to as a text message to a contact.

Referring to in one implementation a menu box can be displayed superimposed on the map or superimposed on the page from the address box not shown . The menu box can include display objects and representing applications that can be used in conjunction with the integrated map address book feature. For example the menu box can include display objects representing the telephone application email application the short messaging service application and or a route application described further below . The display objects can be selected by the user to initiate a telephone call email message or short message to a telephone number or email address included in contact information represented by a push pin displayed on the map as described above. In another implementation the menu box is not superimposed on the map or the page but is otherwise displayed to the user such that the user is provided some indication that by selecting display objects included within the menu box the user is selecting to activate the corresponding function in conjunction with the integrated map address book feature as contrasted to activating the functions independent of the integrated map address book feature i.e. to initiate a call or message to a number or address independent of the contact information .

In other implementations after a user has selected a push pin e.g. by touching the display the user is provided a prompt e.g. a dialog box including user controls and the user is asked whether the user would like to telephone the contact send an email or send a text message to the contact. The user can respond to the prompt to initiate communication with the person or entity represented by the contact information.

In some implementations the mobile device can also include routing instructions within the memory see . The routing instructions can be used to provide navigation guidance to a user of the mobile device . In such implementations the routing instructions can provide route information to the user from a current location of the mobile device to a geographic location corresponding to a selected push pin displayed on the map as shall be described further below.

The routing engine provides a route from the current location to the contact location to the presentation engine . The presentation engine can communicate with a map application used to implement the integrated map address book feature. The presentation engine can use a map provided by the map application e.g. map to overlay the route information. In one implementation as described above the user can select a route display object included in a menu box superimposed on the map to activate the route application in conjunction with the integrated map address book feature.

An engine as the term is used throughout this application can be a piece of hardware that encapsulates a function can be firmware or can be a software application. An engine can perform one or more functions and one piece of hardware firmware or software can perform the functions of more than one of the engines described herein. Similarly more than one piece of hardware firmware and or software can be used to perform the function of a single engine described herein.

The foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the present invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Rather it should be appreciated that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

