---

title: Vesicle-based method for collecting, manipulating, and chemically processing trace macromolecular species
abstract: Disclosed is an apparatus and method for inserting one or several chemical or biological species into phospholipid containers that are controlled within a microfluidic network, wherein individual containers are tracked and manipulated by electric fields and wherein the contained species may be chemically processed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07776357&OS=07776357&RS=07776357
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 07776357
owner_city: Livermore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080205
---
This application is a divisional application of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 914 991 originally filed Aug. 9 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 338 796 entitled Vesicle Based Method and Apparatus for Collecting Manipulating and Chemically Processing Trace Macromolecular Species which claims priority to prior co pending provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 495 213 entitled Vesicle Based Method and Apparatus for Collecting Manipulating and Chemically Processing Trace Macromolecular Species originally filed Aug. 13 2003.

This invention was made with Government support under government contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention including a paid up license and the right in limited circumstances to require the owner of any patent issuing in this invention to license others on reasonable terms.

The field of the invention comprises methods for processing and identifying trace quantities of macromolecular species especially biological toxins by using phospholipid vesicles as chemically processed containers or substrates that are manipulated within a microfluidic network.

A critical dilemma facing chemical and biological toxin detection is that in many instances only a very limited number of molecules may be available for analysis. Moreover current methods are ill equipped or incapable of reliably concentrating and processing very small quantities of a target agent. Most rely on aerosol capture into a substrate fluid. Because of dilution and successive discarding of fluid many molecules must be collected in order to provide an effectively concentrated solution with which to perform chemical analysis. Unfortunately this can delay analysis for many minutes and or lead to unreliable results. In addition the number of molecules of interest may be limited and amplification of these molecules may not be an option. Therefore the available sample must be neither wasted nor diluted and it must be processed in a manner capable of screening it from other species.

A method and apparatus is herein disclosed that combines the utility of several known technologies to address this problem. In particular picoliter chambers comprising phospholipid vesicles about 1 20 microns in diameter are used to manipulate and chemically process trace quantities of samples. These chambers are formed from synthetic lipids by well known methods such as are described by Fischer et al. 2000 v.1467 pp. 177 188 and by Bucher et al. 1998 v.14 pp. 2712 2721 or are created from preexisting cells e.g. ghost red blood cells or RBCs . Due to their small size and composition the vesicles serve as ideal biomimetic i.e. human made processes devices systems that imitate nature nano environments and provide for rapid surface functionalized chemical kinetics. Additionally the vesicles are manipulated and moved through a fluidic network to specific locations where various reagents analytes proteins or viruses are introduced into individual vesicles via electroporation a well known technique in which the bilayer vesicle membrane is rendered temporarily porous under an applied electric field see T. Y. Tsong et al. 1991 v.60 pp. 297 306 . Finally successive electroporation steps allow multiple part reactions to take place within the confines of a vesicle and allow the localized release of products for analysis.

It is therefore an object of this invention to provide a micron sized vesicle based system wherein the vesicle serves as a selectively permeable vessel into which a chemical or biological specie and one or more screening compounds are inserted into the vessel. The vesicle acts as a transport medium moving the reactants and reagents throughout a preparation and diagnostic analysis system.

It is an object of this invention to provide a microscopic liposbme like reaction chamber that can be moved fused or lysed with electric fields of varying magnitude and geometry.

It is yet another object of this invention to provide a multistage parallel bio foundry within which a trace specie or compound is discretely tracked manipulated and never lost.

It is another object of this invention to provide an on chip biological analysis system wherein individual biological particles may be rapidly processed and identified.

It is yet another object of this invention to provide an entirely autonomous system that uses feedback control to manipulate handle and sort trace quantities of biological species.

These and other objects and advantages will become apparent to those having skill in these arts upon reading the following detailed description of the present invention the drawings and the appended claims.

The following terms of art are defined before providing a description and discussion of the present invention.

 Electroporation refers to a process for rendering a lipid bilayer temporarily permeable or porous over a localized region. Electroporation occurs as a result of the reorientation of lipid molecules of the bilayer membrane to form hydrophilic pores in the membrane. The distribution of such pores both in terms of size and number determine the electrical properties of the cell membrane.

A compound is any material sample or reagent that is intended to be controlled by being placed in a vesicle.

A sample consists of a solution of one or more macromolecules such as proteins enzymes chemical toxins or DNA or RNA fragments. A sample may also be a solution with whole bacteria alive or dead or in spore form or a solution containing viruses.

A vesicle is any aqueous volume surrounded by a single phospholipid bilayer membrane and may include synthetically produced liposomes or altered preexisting cells e.g. ghost RBCs . It is also a biomimetic nano environment which will stimulate reactions that are available only in or on phospholipid bilayer membrane substrates. A vesicle measures up to 20 m in diameter when suspended in an isotonic solution. A synthetic vesicle may be formed from a pure lipid composition or a mixture of lipids cholesterols and membrane proteins.

 Impedance measurement involves either ac or dc applied voltages and sensing of transient or frequency domain currents. Impedance measurements may happen before during and or immediately after electroporation pulses.

Chemical analyses performed by separation processes such as chromatography are generally inefficient in that relatively large quantities of reagent materials are lost due to mixing reacting and moving of fluid. Of a diluted sample plug a small volume is used for electrophoretic separation and the rest is discarded. To overcome these shortcomings such systems have been greatly reduced in size but the apparatus channel lengths remain on the order of centimeters which equates to a about 0.1 L of reagent per analysis if the column diameter is on the order of 100 microns.

Accordingly an embodiment of the present invention comprises a vesicle based microfluidic analysis network wherein vesicles are used to move the sample and any reagent materials to the site of the separation column rather than moving the analyte through the entire length of the apparatus. The network comprises a micromachined chip intended to include multiple mobile picoliter storage chambers to manage front end sample preparation prior to detection. Vesicles 1 20 m in diameter which are routinely used as tiny reaction vessels for in vitro studies can serve as these portable chambers that may be selectively loaded with proteins or genetic material analytes and reagent and or dye compounds see D. T. Chiu et al. 1999 v.283 pp. 1892 1895 . Synthetic vesicles such as depicted in are created from a solution containing synthetic lipids using a variety of techniques such as electroformation mechanical extrusion and rotary evaporation roto evaporation .

Vesicles can be created using a variety of techniques such as electroformation mechanical extrusion and roto evaporation from a solution containing synthetic lipids or by altering preexisting cells e.g. ghost RBCs see P. Bucher et al. 1998 v.14 pp. 2712 2721 . Vesicular containers are used to encapsulate compounds and prevent passage of compounds across the bilayer membrane to the surrounding medium. Compounds are only permitted to diffuse within the confines of the vesicle and may not diffuse beyond the membrane. Samples within vesicles may be encouraged to mix rapidly due to the small vesicular volume. Reaction rate and thoroughness may be enhanced by confining reacting compounds to the small vesicular volume.

Vesicles need to meet certain basic criteria to be manipulable for autonomous sample preparation and for this particular example. A population s peak diameter needs to exceed 3 m for immobilization their membranes need to resist rupture while being held with negative pressure at a micro aperture channel portal and the outermost membrane should not have encapsulated several internal liposomes which could disrupt electroporation efficiency.

In order to prepare the desired vesicles three different phospholipid materials were obtained as powders from Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. and tested. The chosen compounds were 1 2 Dioleoyl sn Giycero 3 Phosphocholine DOPC 1 2 Dilauroyl sn Glycero 3 Phosphocholine DLPC and 1 Palmitoyl 2 10 12 Tricosadiynoyl sn Glycero 3 Phosphocholine 16 0 23 2 DIYNE PC . Solutions of each of these materials were prepared in both the virgin state and with between about 5 to about 20 mole cholesterol also obtained from Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. added to the prepared solution mixtures by mixing the lipid and cholesterol as required into a quantity of chloroform and 10 nM phosphate buffered saline PBS having a pH of 7.4.

Of these 16 0 23 2 DIYNE PC formed the most robust vesicles. The most successful composition found to date has been a mixture comprising 16 0 23 2 DIYNE PC and cholesterol in a 10 1 molar ratio. The liposome solution is prepared by combining 15 L of 0.1M 16 0 23 2 DIYNE PC dissolved in chloroform with 1.5 L of 0.1M cholesterol dissolved in chloroform. 980 L of chloroform and 200 L of methanol are then added to solution. Finally a PBS dye mixture prepared by combining 300 mL of 1 mg mL ALEXA FLUOR 488 dye dissolved into 6.7 mL of phosphate buffered saline PBS is added to the liposome solution and the sample is connected to a rotary evaporator B chi Labortechnik AG model R 205 . The ALEXA FLUOR 488 dye is chosen over the more commonly used fluorescein FITC for its enhanced resilience to photo bleaching .

Based on temperature rotation speed and vacuum the chloroform and methanol are boiled off leaving a vesicle solution encapsulating PBS. The evaporation process requires about 15 minutes to complete and has successfully yielded a polydisperse solution with liposome diameters up to 10 m. During this process the liposome solution is rotated at 40 rpm under vacuum pressure at 40 C. Under these conditions chloroform boils off at about 474 mbar and methanol boils off at about 337 mbar. However the solution is brought down to a final pressure of 90 mbar to ensure both solvents have completely evaporated off. Finally the solution is polymerized via UV irradiation at 254 nm for 30 minutes to permanently cross link the bilayer membrane.

Following polymerization the liposome solution is centrifuged once at about 2000 rpm for 30 minutes to concentrate the liposomes. The supernatant is removed and the remaining centrifuged solids are re suspended in phosphate buffered saline pH 7.4 .

To study the process of vesicle manipulation and electroporation test platform was constructed. Various views of the test platform are shown in . Similar to published single cell electroporation the device used low level sensing voltages of 200 mV and permeation pulses up to 5 V. Impedance data with 

Test platform comprises a manifold that includes top and bottom chamber and and silicon chip through which a 6 m micro hole is plasma etched. Also included are one platinum working counter electrode and one Ag AgCl sensing reference electrode on above and below silicon chip . Together these four electrodes allow for accurate delivery and sensing of electrical signals masking electrochemical events . When the manifold is assembled silicon chip containing micro hole separates chambers and and provides a volume into which a quantity of PBS pH 7.4 solution and vesicles are introduced. A syringe is attached to the lower chamber and is used to draw a suction through micro hole in order to trap and hold a single vesicle and permit vesicle electroporation.

In this system most of the resistive impedance of the system exists across the micro hole and mated vesicle. Because of this any applied voltage drops almost entirely across the vesicle with the highest field strength across the vesicle membrane bridging the micro hole. This is where we expect to see the first onset of membrane permeation.

Using a 200 mV sensing potential we measured the open circuit micro hole resistance to be between about 100 k and 400 k and the normalized vesicle impedance to be between about 400 k and about 2 M . We believe this range depends on either the tightness of the fluid seal between vesicle and surface adjacent to the micro hole or the intrinsic transmembrane resistance of the vesicle itself. A simulated circuit diagram is shown in .

Membrane response to pulses can be categorized into three domains. Low amplitude pulses of less than 500 mV do not cause appreciable permeation. Moderate pulses of 1 to 2 V with durations of between 10 to about 100 ms lead to membrane permeation and subsequent recovery although occasionally trans vesicle impedance never recovers to its original values. Larger pulses e.g. 2 to 5 V with durations of between 10 to about 100 ms induce unrecoverable vesicle membrane lysis.

As shown in a vesicle held at a micro hole experiences a triangular voltage waveform. The impedance across the vesicle drops as the induced voltage increases indicating pore formation. As voltage decreases the impedance recovers indicating resealing of the membrane pores. The final resistance of the vesicle is lower than at the start which is believed to be evidence of irreversible electroporation.

Imaging the leakage of fluorescent dyes from the vesicles corroborates the impedance response of the vesicles. ALEXA FLUOR 488 fluorescent dye was chosen for enhanced resilience to photo bleaching and thus is less impacted by photo polymerization during fluorometric imaging. Furthermore an upper limit on ALEXA FLUOR 488 concentration is set by its ability to self quench. This dye was incorporated with PBS during the vesicle formation step and was thereby encapsulated within the vesicles. Centrifugation was then used to separate newly formed vesicles from the dye containing supernate.

As seen in that tests conducted with the entrapped ALEXA FLUOR 488 dye showed that during electroporation at 2V with 100 ms pulses the fluorescence intensity of the vesicle decreases with each pulse. As noted earlier in many cases the vesicle impedance remained much lower than its baseline level after a pulse strongly suggesting a destabilized membrane although these liposomes retained dye for several minutes thereafter. Larger lysing pulses led to visible evidence of dye releasing to the surrounding region. Lysed membrane debris often accumulated around the micro hole after a few lysis events the hole clogged and the chip was removed for cleaning.

Referring now to a preferred embodiment is illustrated and described as follows. A fluidic network would comprise microchannel column connected at one end to vesicle loading conduit and at an opposite end by a vesicle unloading chamber which is itself part of a microfluidic detection system comprising buffer reservoir separation column waste reservoir and field electrodes . In addition loading conduit additionally comprises supply reservoir and field electrode for moving vesicles into column . Similarly vesicle unloading chamber would include field electrodes used to deliver low voltages for lysing vesicles .

In addition to the foregoing structures fluidic network would further comprise a plurality of branching stations or compartments located between loading conduit and unloading chamber each of which would comprise a separate preloading chamber a supply channel connecting compartment with a supply reservoir a short small diameter inlet port 2 6 m connecting compartment to microchannel column and at least two electrodes and for electroporation and sensing. Additionally microchannel column would include necked constrictions shown in just before compartments in order to guide and help stabilize vesicles as each is moved in place over inlet port . Electrode is resident in preloading chamber and another set is fixed in or near the wall of the main microchannel column opposite inlet port . A third electrode located in supply reservoir is available to establish electrophoretic flow from the reservoir into compartment and out into inlet port . One or more of these side compartments may be connected to a front end collector not shown which introduces analyte material gathered from the surrounding environment into one of preloading chambers . Remaining side compartments store various reagents or chemical or biologically active species.

Finally a vesicle fusing chamber would be optionally included between vesicle loading compartments and unloading chamber . Vesicle fusing chamber would include processing chamber two or more field electrodes and for inducing membrane fusion between two or more vesicles and a short channel connecting fusing chamber with microchannel column and unloading chamber .

Vesicles would be moved through dedicated channel in fluidic network either electrically or under pressure to specific locations along channel for loading materials via electroporation through the vesicle membrane. Moreover each of the structures comprising fluidic network would be filled with a carrier buffer solution such as PBS pH 7.4 together with optional amounts of sugars in order to maintain a specific solution chemistry and conductivity to facilitate vesicle integrity membrane consistency and osmotic balance across the bilayer membrane. Impedance measurements will be used to monitor electroporation progress to interrogate the contents of vesicles and to track the location of vesicles in the network. As containers the vesicles prevent a sample from being diluted and provide a means for greatly reduced mixing and reacting volumes and rates. Moreover as substrates vesicles are ideal for fast surface dominated reactions required in the preparation of any assay.

A loading site is designed to allow a single vesicle to come in contact with a loading inlet where electrodes to either side of the vesicle measure its presence as a change in impedance . Once the presence of the vesicle is confirmed an agent is introduced into the vesicle by electroporation using the same set or another set of electrodes. The introduced agent may be the unknown trace specie under investigation or one of the various reagent materials. As shown in the process of rendering the vesicle permeable is ideally localized to only that region of the vesicle membrane in contact with and covering the loading inlet and allows molecules to be introduced into the vesicle interior or inserted into the bilayer membrane itself.

Molecules may be loaded through the porous membrane into the aqueous intra vesicular space by mechanism of diffusion based on molecular concentrations . In addition molecules may be loaded through the porous membrane into the aqueous intra vesicle space by electrophoresis based on molecular charge and field intensity . In this case the same electrodes used to electroporate the membrane may also serve to provide electric fields that act upon molecules loading into the vesicle. Compounds may be driven against concentration gradients to produce interior concentrations higher or lower than the fluid media surrounding the vesicle. In this manner a sample may be further concentrated and will not lose appreciable concentration until unloaded from the vesicle in the detection phase.

Once loaded with a sample each individual vesicle can be sent through a series of loading compartments that use electroporation to introduce chemicals and enzymes for reactions. Different recipes may be used with different vesicles to run a full analysis of a sample. If desired electrofusion of vesicles can be used to share information and induce metered chemical mixing.

Loading stations are locations where one or more narrow fluidic channel s or inlet s meet the vesicle channel. Samples or reagents may be supplied only from an inlet channel. Loading or unloading of compounds into a vesicle takes place when a vesicle is stopped with its membrane adjacent to an inlet channel.

Compounds may be loaded into a vesicle using electroporation of the vesicle membrane. Compounds are able to pass through the membrane during and shortly after being subjected to an electric field. Compounds may be allowed to diffuse into and out of a vesicle during electroporation.

Electroporation pulse parameters may be altered to encourage larger or smaller pore formation to limit transmembrane diffusion to compounds of certain size. In this case small molecules may diffuse through the membrane out of the vesicle while ensuring the sample e.g. macromolecules does not escape.

Compounds may be forced into or out of a vesicle volume with electrophoresis. The same electrodes used to electroporate a vesicle can be used to induce movement of compounds along the electric field axis with the same or additional pulses. Compounds may be forced to move against their concentration gradient to create an intra vesicular concentration higher or lower than that dictated strictly by diffusion.

Charged or polarizable compounds held within a preloading chamber may be prevented from diffusing into the adjoining vesicle channel by applying an electric field to drive compounds back into the chamber. This dc offset may be used in conjunction with a small ac signal to monitor vesicle impedance.

An imbalance in dissolved solute concentrations between the inside and outside of a vesicle will lead to osmosis of water across the bilayer membrane. Osmosis will attempt to balance concentrations on either side of the membrane and will lead to a change in water volume within the vesicle. Altering solute concentrations inside or outside a vesicle may be used to alter vesicular volume change overall compound concentrations within the vesicle or induce vesicle rupture.

Compounds may be loaded with electroporation into vesicles for reactions. Reactions would be confined to the volume within a vesicle. Reactants may include but are not limited to proteins enzymes solvents denaturing agents surfactants and fluorescent dye molecules.

Vesicles can be fused together via electrofusion to share their constituents and initiate metered chemical reactions See C. Ramos et al. 2000 v.82 pp. 511 518 .

Reagent compounds may be moved to different locations on chip while contained within a vesicle. Vesicles may be moved with a pressure flow either with a pump external to the chip or with a pump integrated as part of the chip. Vesicles may also be moved with an electric field gradient along the axis of intended movement. Electrophoresis may be used to apply force on charged ionic anionic zwitterionic species in the vesicle membrane or within an electroporated vesicular volume. Dielectrophoresis may be used to apply force on polarizable species in the vesicle membrane or within the vesicular volume. Electroosmosis may be used to move the bulk fluid surrounding vesicles thereby carrying vesicles in plug flow. Dedicated vesicle channels designed to accommodate specific vesicle sizes will serve as conduits for vesicle movement.

Vesicles may be sorted by differences in mobility under an applied electric field. Charged or polarizable species in the vesicle membrane or within the vesicular volume could be subjected to electrophoresis or dielectrophoresis to induce vesicle movement. Vesicle size vesicle charge and solution pH may be chosen to alter vesicle mobility. Vesicle mobility may be determined by monitoring vesicle position for a known period of time under an applied electric field. Moreover analyte samples may be tracked by monitoring the location of particular vesicles. A vesicle may be detected at chosen locations by measuring changes in electrical impedance between two electrodes on opposite sides of the vesicle.

Finally vesicles can be lysed at any time to remove their constituents without damage of the constituents as a precursor for further concentration or preparation or for analysis outside the vesicle. The constituents inside the vesicle can be relocated for example to a separation column for analysis.

