---

title: Atomic ion clock with two ion traps, and method to transfer ions
abstract: An atomic ion clock with a first ion trap and a second ion trap, where the second ion trap is of higher order than the first ion trap. In one embodiment, ions may be shuttled back and forth from one ion trap to the other by application of voltage ramps to the electrodes in the ion traps, where microwave interrogation takes place when the ions are in the second ion trap, and fluorescence is induced and measured when the ions are in the first ion trap. In one embodiment, the RF voltages applied to the second ion trap to contain the ions are at a higher frequency than that applied to the first ion trap. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08058936&OS=08058936&RS=08058936
owner: California Institute of Technology
number: 08058936
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080829
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 967 090 filed 31 Aug. 2008.

The invention claimed herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 USC 202 in which the Contractor has elected to retain title.

Ultra stable atomic clocks find widespread applications in navigation communications and scientific measurements and experiments to name just a few. An atomic clock comprises a gas cell or vacuum tube to confine an ensemble of reference atomic oscillators isolated from changes in the environment where the clock operates. In many instances an atomic clock comprises a quartz oscillator where the frequency of the quartz oscillator is corrected and accurately maintained by exploiting the physics of the reference atomic oscillators. Sampling the output of the quartz oscillator at specific oscillation intervals provides the ticks of the atomic clock.

One type of atomic clock is an atomic ion clock where the two lowest energy levels of the ions determine the frequency of the atomic oscillators . The ions are confined within an ion trap by the use of radiofrequency RF and static DC electric fields. For the two lowest energy levels with an energy difference of E the frequency associated with the ion atomic oscillators is given by E where is Planck s constant.

Mercury Hg ion atomic clocks offer some advantages over other high performance clocks being developed today. illustrates the two lowest energy levels split from the Senergy level for Hg ions labeled and sometimes referred to as the upper clock level and the lower clock level respectively. A Hg discharge lamp may be used to provide ultraviolet light with wavelength 194 nm so that an ion may be excited from upper clock level to Poptically excited state . This is pictorially represented by photon absorption line showing that the energy difference between energy levels and corresponds to the energy of a photon with a wavelength of 194 nm. When an ion is in optically excited state it may then transition to lower clock level as pictorially represented by photon emission line emitting a photon at a wavelength smaller than 194 nm. In this way with ions initially populating energy level fluorescence is observed because the absorption of 194 nm light leads to the emission of light at a lower wavelength higher frequency .

Once ions are driven into lower clock level they no longer absorb and scatter the 194 nm photons. Fluorescence will resume when an interrogating microwave radiation is tuned to the approximately 40.507 GHz transition between energy levels and thereby leading to a repopulation of ions to upper clock level . The fluorescence response peaks when the microwave radiation is at approximately 40.507 GHz and will decrease as the microwave frequency is tuned away from 40.507 GHz. illustrates a sample data fluorescence response curve giving photon count as a function of frequency offset from the center frequency approximately 40.507 GHz of the interrogating microwave radiation.

Rather than look directly for a peak fluorescence response some atomic clocks will modulate the interrogating microwave radiation at two frequencies and and will vary until the fluorescence response at frequency is substantially equal to the fluorescence response at frequency . When this occurs the two frequencies are essentially centered about the peak fluorescence response frequency so that is essentially the peak response frequency and is a measure of the frequency transition between upper and lower clock levels and .

The above description of a mercury atomic ion clock may be represented at the system level by illustrating ion trap with optical windows and and microwave window . The source of optical radiation is labeled and optical detector measures the fluorescence. Oscillator provides a reference frequency which is modulated by modulator to and and microwave radiator interrogates the ions in ion trap via microwave window . These component systems are monitored and controlled by control system so that the frequency of oscillator is controlled to provide equal fluorescence responses at the two frequencies and . The output of oscillator provides a stable frequency reference to be used as the basis for an atomic clock. A clock will count the cycles and add one second after an appropriate number of cycles have been accumulated. 

The atomic clock system of is operated in two phases a first phase in which lamp optically stimulates the ions so that optical detector may detect fluorescence but where microwave radiator is off and a second phase where lamp is off and the microwave radiator is on so that upper clock level may be repopulated.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 420 549 hereinafter referred to as the 549 patent discloses a mercury ion atomic clock in which a linear quadruple ion trap is electrically separated into two regions. The regions are co linear have the same number of electrodes and are driven by the same RF field to contain the ions but separate DC voltages are applied to each region to shuttle the ions from one region to the other. Fluorescence is stimulated only when the ions are in the first ion trap whereas the resonance interrogating microwave radiation is applied only when the ions are in the second ion trap region. As explained in the 549 patent by separating the ion trap into two regions a resonance region and a fluorescence region the resonance region may be made much smaller than the fluorescence region making it easier to magnetically shield the resonance region as well as simplifying thermal control. Other advantages are described in the 549 patent.

Described herein is an atomic ion clock embodiment with improvements over the embodiments described in the 549 patent. In the description that follows the scope of the term some embodiments is not to be so limited as to mean more than one embodiment but rather the scope may include one embodiment more than one embodiment or perhaps all embodiments.

Increasing the pole order of an ion trap used for microwave clock interrogations leads to less RF ion motion in the trapping fields than experienced in a quadrupole trap. RF trapping forces are generated by ion micro motion in the spatial gradient of the trapping fields known as the pondermotive force. This force should overcome the space charge forces of a large cloud of ions usually much larger than the thermal motion of ions at room temperature.

Ion micro motion leads directly to a special relativistic time dilation 2 order Doppler shift shift of the clock resonance frequency of the moving Hg ions denoted by the fractional frequency shift f f which is given by

A 16 pole trap reduces second order Doppler frequency pulling seven fold compared to a linear quadrupole trap. Because the multipole trap is typically longer than quadrupole traps used for frequency standards another reduction in 2 order Doppler shift is gained because the linear ion density N L is reduced.

Long term variations in ion number that lead to frequency changes in clock output are greatly reduced by the use of a multipole trap for ion clock resonance interrogations.

Ion shuttling between ion traps and allows separation of the state selection process from the clock microwave resonance process so that each trap may be independently optimized for its task. This separation of functions has proven to be a powerful tool with ions because the beam of ions may be reversed in direction halted and transported from one trap to the other with an insignificant loss of atoms.

For the embodiment of quadrupole linear ion trap tightly confines ions for optical state selection whereas for multipole ion trap the ions are more loosely confined and the microwave atomic transitions are executed. A DC voltage ramp is applied to control the ion shuttling between quadrupole ion trap and the more weakly confining multipole ion trap . In quadrupole ion trap the ion cloud is squeezed to a relatively small radius for efficient optical state selection and space charge interaction within the ion cloud may be stronger than thermal energies. In this particular embodiment space charge interaction energy is also larger than the well depth for ions in multipole ion trap and a restriction on the slew rate of the voltage ramping waveform then results. The voltage ramping used to move ions from one trap to the other should proceed slowly to allow for ion thermalization with a buffer gas typically neon or helium . This typically requires a ramp voltage change of state to be more than 100 ms and as much as 500 ms.

In the embodiment of the DC voltage ramp to quadrupole ion trap is provided by DC line and the DC voltage ramp to multipole ion trap is provided by DC line where the DC voltages are controlled by control system . These DC voltage lines are connected to the electrodes of their respective ion traps.

Typical voltage ramps are illustrated in where curve represents the voltage ramp for a quadrupole ion trap and curve represents the voltage ramp for a multipole ion trap such as for example a 16 POLE ion trap. These curves do not represent actual waveform values but are meant to illustrate a method of shuttling ions from one ion trap to another.

Referring to just before time t the voltage of the quadrupole ion trap is relatively positive whereas the voltage of the multipole ion trap is relatively negative so that the positively charged mercury ions are confined in the multipole ion trap. From time tto time t the voltage of the quadrupole ion trap is brought from a relatively positive value to a relatively negative value a negative going transition followed by bringing the voltage of the multipole ion trap to a relatively positive value at time t a positive going transition . This process shuttles the ions away from the multipole ion trap and to the quadrupole ion trap.

This process is reversed at times t t and t where at time tthe voltage of the multipole ion trap is brought from a relatively positive value to a relatively negative value at time t and from time tto time tthe voltage of the quadrupole ion trap is brought from a relatively negative value to a relatively positive value. This process shuttles the ions back to the multipole ion trap. The process represented at times t t and tshuttles the ions back to the quadrupole ion trap.

For some embodiments typical DC voltage swings may be on the order of a few volts where the voltage ramp time width may be on the order of a few hundred milliseconds.

In addition to the DC voltages RF voltages for confining the ions in their respective traps are also applied as shown in . RF line provides RF voltages Usin t to quadrupole ion trap and RF line provides RF voltages Usin t to multipole ion trap were these RF voltages are controlled by control system . A symbol is used in the description of these RF voltages to indicate that each RF line is actually a pair of RF lines where the two lines making up a pair are driven in opposite phase. These RF voltage lines are connected to the electrodes of their respective ion traps. For each ion trap the phase of the RF voltage applied to any one electrode is shifted by radians relative to its nearest neighbor electrodes.

For example RF line comprises two RF lines one driven at voltage Usin t and the other at voltage Usin t where is some phase. If an electrode is driven at voltage Usin t then its two nearest neighbors are driving at voltage Usin t . Similar remarks apply to RF line .

In practice the DC voltage may be superimposed added to the RF voltages so that separate DC lines and are not needed. However for ease of illustration separate DC voltage lines are shown.

For some embodiments the ion traps are positioned to be co linear with each other separated by small gap . The width of gap should be short relative to the diameter of the electrode rods in the ion traps. For most embodiments it is expected that each ion trap has its electrodes cylindrically spaced about a longitudinal axis. This is pictorially illustrated in illustrating electrodes A and B belonging to quadrupole ion trap and electrodes A B C and D belonging to multipole ion trap . For simplicity not all electrodes are shown. In the example of both ion traps are co linear with their centered about longitudinal axis .

If both ion traps are operated at the same RF frequency for confining the ions i.e. then co aligning a quadrupole ion trap to an arbitrary multipole ion trap may result in holes in the ion confining fields whereby a hole is a region with a well depth of essentially zero where ions may escape and collide with that part of the ion trap structure that surrounds the electrodes. However for some configurations where at least some of the electrodes of the quadrupole ion trap may be co aligned with some of the electrodes of the multipole ion trap these holes may be mitigated by driving such co aligned electrodes with opposite phase. For example referring to the phase of the RF voltage driving electrode A is radians out of phase with the RF voltage driving electrode A. This is noted by arbitrarily assigning V to electrode A and assigning V to electrode A. In similar fashion the phase of the RF voltage driving electrode B is radians out of phase with the RF voltage driving electrode D. Note that for the particular embodiment of electrodes A and B are spaced relative to one another so that they are driven in opposite phase.

In general it may not be feasible to align the electrodes as indicated in because of the number of electrodes for the multipole ion trap relative to that of the lower order ion trap which may be a quadruple ion trap for some embodiments. Accordingly for some embodiments the frequency of the RF voltage driving the electrodes of the multipole ion trap is not equal to the frequency of the RF voltage driving the electrodes of the lower order ion trap. For example for some embodiments the RF frequency driving the multipole ion trap may be higher than that of the lower order ion trap. As one particular example the frequency for the multipole ion trap may be approximately twice that of the lower order ion trap. That is for some embodiments whereas for some other embodiments 2 . For properly chosen frequencies it is found that the resulting holes will open and close faster than the time for which the ions may generally drift through thereby mitigating the effects of the holes.

Various modifications may be made to the described embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention as claimed below.

