---

title: Apparatus, methods, and computer program products for providing portable communication identity services
abstract: Apparatus, methods, and computer program products for providing portable communication identity services are provided. A request is received to access a portable communication identity from a communications device. User information is received that is input by a user of the communications device, and the user information is authenticated. Capabilities of the communications device are accessed, and the portable communication identity is transmitted in accordance with the capabilities of the communications device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08365250&OS=08365250&RS=08365250
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08365250
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080104
---
Exemplary embodiments relate generally to providing portable communication identity services and more particularly to servers methods and computer program products for providing portable communication identity services.

Computing devices have become a part of our everyday world. Many people have cell phones work computers home computers laptop computers and the like. Each computing device may have various pieces of useful personal information.

However if a person goes to a different location that person may not want to or be allowed to carry all of the different computing devices. It would be useful to be able to use a general purpose computing device that is publicly available e.g. at a hotel or on an airplane as a personal computing device.

Exemplary embodiments include a method for providing portable communication identity services. A request is received to access a portable communication identity from a communications device. User information is received that is input by a user of the communications device and the user information is authenticated. Capabilities of the communications device are accessed and the portable communication identity is transmitted in accordance with the capabilities of the communications device.

Additional exemplary embodiments include a server for providing portable communication identity services. A processor executes instructions to control the server configured to provide a portable communication identity. The server is operatively connected to a communications device via a network. An input receives a request for the portable communication identity and the processor authenticates the request for the portable communication identity and assesses capabilities of the communications device. An output transmits the portable communication identity to the communications device based on the capabilities of the communications device.

Further exemplary embodiments include a computer program product tangibly embodied on a computer readable medium for providing portable communication identity services. The computer program product includes instructions for causing a computer to execute the above method.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the exemplary embodiments and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The detailed description explains the exemplary embodiments together with advantages and features by way of example with reference to the drawings.

The network may include circuit switched and or packet switched technologies and devices such as routers switches hubs gateways e.g. residential gateways including a DSL or cable modem or IP multimedia subsystem IMS based networks for facilitating communications among the communications device the portable communications identity server an Authentication Authorization Accounting AAA server that may be operatively coupled to an AAA storage and a device capabilities server that may be operatively coupled to a device capabilities storage . The network may include wireline and or wireless components utilizing e.g. IEEE 802.11 standards for providing over the air transmissions of communications. In addition a wireline public switched telephone network PSTN telephone Session Initiation Protocol SIP telephone dual mode mobile telephone or other type of communications device may be included in the system of .

In exemplary embodiments the network can be a managed IP network administered by a service provider which can control bandwidth and quality of service for the communications discussed herein. The network may be implemented in a wireless fashion e.g. using wireless protocols and technologies such as WiFi WiMax and BLUETOOTH. The network can also be a packet switched network as a local area network wide area network metropolitan area network Internet network or other similar type of network environment. The network may be a cellular communications network a fixed wireless network a wireless local area network LAN a wireless wide area network WAN a personal area network PAN a virtual private network VPN an intranet or other suitable network system and the network includes equipment for receiving and transmitting signals such as a cell tower and mobile switching center. In exemplary embodiments the network can also be a circuit switched network such as a standard public switched telephone network PSTN .

According to exemplary embodiments the network may facilitate transmission of images video data audio downloads configurations address books contacts. etc. from the portable communication identity server to the communications device in accordance with the portable communication identity service

The portable communication identity server the AAA server and the device capabilities server may be implemented using a high speed processing device e.g. a computer system that is capable of handling high volume activities conducted via the communications device and other network entities via the network .

The system can manage multiple accounts and subscriptions as established by particular users of the system . These accounts may then be used to provide access to the portable communication identity services as described further herein. According to exemplary embodiments the portable communication identity server may receive requests from the communications device e.g. to establish a portable communication identity services account or to access portable communication identity services. The portable communication identity server or the AAA server may implement authentication software for restricting and or controlling access to the portable communication identity services provided by the portable communication identity server . The portable communication identity server or the AAA server may implement a customer identity system CIS which stores user credentials e.g. usernames preferences and passwords . Also the portable communication identity server may implement portable communication identity service logic for operatively connecting to the communications device to provide the portable communication identity services. As non limiting examples numerous communications devices such as the communications device may be operatively connected to the portable communication identity server . The portable communication identity server may be configured to control the operations and functions of the portable communication identity services.

In exemplary embodiments a user may have access to a general purpose computer such as the communications device . For example the general purpose computer may be in a hotel a mall an airport a store or a home of a friend. However the functionality applications configurations desktop setup etc. of the user are not present on the communications device . The user may desire to utilize the portable communication identity services to access his portable communication identity which may be stored on the portable communications identity server or the portable communication identity storage . The user may input a username password code and or identification and the portable communication server or the AAA server authenticates the user. The user can input the capabilities of the communications device or the portable communication identity server may be given permission to scan the communications device so as to determine the capabilities of the communications device . As a non limiting example the portable communication identity server may remotely connect to the communications device to assess the capabilities of the communications device by e.g. performing scans checking memory capacity checking processing capacity checking for the type of audio card checking for the type of video card checking the type of buss etc. As a non limiting example the portable communication identity server may utilize a device interrogation protocol for determining the capabilities of the communication device . The device interrogation protocol may be similar to e.g. the ease of operation of a plug and play PNP system. Also the capabilities information of the communications device and other computing devices may be stored on the device capabilities server or the device capabilities storage . The device capabilities server may store and identify the capabilities of various computing devices at various locations. The device capabilities server may contain the capabilities of the communications device and can transmit the capabilities of the communications device to the portable communications identity server .

Use of the term capabilities refers to the computer specifications and performance of the computing device and can be related to software firmware hardware or some combination thereof. As non limiting examples the capabilities may be related to an operating system central processing unit CPU clock speed bus speed cache memory including random access memory RAM peripherals application programming interface API drivers adapters internet connection video cards sound cards etc.

In response to receiving the capabilities of the communications device the portable communication identity server identifies the elements of the portable communication identity that are compatible with the communications device and transmits those elements of the portable communication identity of the user to the communications device . The portable communications identity server can configure the communications device in accordance with the portable communication identity of the user. For example if the portable communication identity includes a subscription to a game or gaming service that is not compatible with the capabilities of the communication device e.g. if the game requires more memory than the communication device possesses then this element of the portable communication identity would not be transmitted to the communications device . In exemplary embodiments the portable communication identity server may transmit a menu similar to an example menu shown in . The menu may contain various items elements of the portable communication identity of the user. The user may select items from the menu to be transmitted to or configured on the communications device . As a non limiting example having such an option with a menu may be useful if the capabilities of the communications device cannot support the entire portable communication identity of the user. For example the capabilities of the communications device may be able to support certain applications but not others. For example some network games may require sophisticated processing to be done in the communications device thus requiring the communications device to contain a minimum amount of memory or support hardware processing such as video capture using a built in camera. Also in exemplary embodiments the user may access the menu items without the portable communication identity server receiving device capabilities and the user may select the items that he desires to be provided by the portable communications identity server to the communications device .

When the communications device receives the portable communication identity or the selection of items of the portable communications identity the user can utilize the added features of the communications device . In accordance with the portable communication identity of the user the communications device may be configured to provide the same operability e.g. as the user s home computer home phone cell phone PDA or the like. As a non limiting example the user may be in a hotel and needs to use the communication device such as a cell phone of the hotel. However the user needs to access his contacts and address book which are contained in the user s portable communication identity. The user may be authenticated by the portable communications server and select to have his contacts and address book configured on the cell phone of the hotel. Once the portable communication identity server has completed the configurations to the cell phone of the hotel the user can utilize the contacts and address book now on the cell phone of the hotel that have been provided by the portable communication identity server . The portable communications identity service allows the user to travel anywhere without bringing equipment and allows the user to utilize the facilities of the communications device which may be located in a hotel a mall or an airplane as though he were using his own personal device. Although the communications device may be general in nature using the personal communication identity of the user allows the communications device to be converted into a personal communications device for the user.

In the exemplary embodiments various configurations may be uploaded to the portable communications identity server to be contained in the user s portable communication identity. As a non limiting example the user s portable communication identity may in some ways resemble a user profile in that the user can control what is contained in his portable communication identity. The user may have various configurations on various devices such as on a home computer a cell phone a home phone a work computer a gaming system etc. The portable communication identity server is adapted to upload the various configurations of the various devices into the portable communication identity of the user. Any information that has been populated in the portable communication identity of the user is immediately available on the portable communication identity server coupled to the portable communication identity storage . In the upload of the user s portable communication identity device menus and device application configuration information may be included. The application configuration information may include operating system requirements memory requirements and disk requirements. In exemplary embodiments the application configuration information could be an application identifier that is mapped by the portable communication identity server to an application profile containing system requirements memory requirements and disk requirements which are stored on the portable communication identity server .

In accordance with exemplary embodiments it is understood that the operations and functionality of the portable communication identity server may be implemented in a portable communication identity application that is stored on the portable communication identity server .

It is understood that the exemplary embodiments are not limited to but are capable of being implemented in the system illustrated in . Additionally the portable communication identity server the AAA server and the device capabilities server may be representative of numerous varied servers. The portable communication identity storage the AAA storage and the device capabilities storage may be representative of numerous varied storages devices. Likewise the network may be representative of numerous varied networks. Also the communications device may be representative of numerous varied communications devices. Therefore the system illustrated in is neither limited numerically to the elements depicted therein nor limited to the exact configuration and operative connections of elements. Further it is understood by those skilled in the art that elements may be added to subtracted from or substituted for the elements described in the system of .

Additionally the elements devices network entities etc. discussed herein all contain the necessary software and hardware components to function as described which include but are not limited to processors memory input output devices buses software applications etc.

The capabilities of the communications device are received by the portable communication identity sever at . As non limiting examples the capabilities of the communications device may be retrieved from the device capabilities server where the device capabilities server and or the device capabilities storage comprise capabilities for a plurality of devices that are uniquely identified. Also the communications device may be scanned by the portable communications identity server to determine the capabilities of the communications device . For example the portable communication identity server may utilize the device interrogation protocol to assess the capabilities of the communications device . Further the user may transmit the capabilities of the communications device to the portable communication identity server .

The portable communication identity server may transmit a menu of items for selection based on the capabilities of the communications device at . Also the portable communication identity server may make the menu of items available to the user whether or not the portable communication identity server receives the capabilities of the communications device .

In response to receiving the selection of items of the menu the portable communication identity server provides the selected items to the communication device at . Also the portable communication identity server may provide the portable communication identity of the user to the communications device at any point that the user makes a request for his portable communication identity without having to transmit the menu. The menu of items is not meant to be limiting but to allow the user added flexibility in deciding which items from the portable communication identity are needed. Additionally the portable communication identity server may provide the portable communication identity to the communications device without the user having to make selections from the menu of items. As a non limiting example the communications device may be a new up to date computer that is capable of handling the entire portable communication identity of the user and there is no need to determine the capabilities of the new computer.

The processor is a hardware device for executing software that can be stored in the memory . The processor can be virtually any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU a data signal processor DSP or an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the computer and the processor may be a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or a macroprocessor.

The memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM programmable read only memory PROM tape compact disc read only memory CD ROM disk diskette cartridge cassette or the like etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processor .

The software in the memory may include one or more separate programs each of which comprises an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. In the example illustrated in the software in the memory includes a suitable operating system O S compiler source code and a portable communication identity application of the exemplary embodiments. As illustrated the portable communication identity application comprises numerous functional components for implementing the features and operations of the exemplary embodiments.

The operating system essentially controls the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services. It is contemplated by the inventors that the portable communication identity application for implementing portable communication identity services according to exemplary embodiments is applicable on all other commercially available operating systems.

The portable communication identity application may be a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When a source program is to be executed then the program is usually translated via a compiler such as the compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the memory so as to operate properly in connection with the O S . Furthermore the portable communication identity application can be written as a an object oriented programming language which has classes of data and methods or b a procedure programming language which has routines subroutines and or functions for example but not limited to C C C Pascal BASIC API calls HTML XHTML XML ASP scripts FORTRAN COBOL Perl Java ADA NET and the like.

The I O devices may include input devices such as for example but not limited to a mouse keyboard scanner microphone etc. Furthermore the I O devices may also include output devices for example but not limited to a printer display etc. Finally the I O devices may further include devices that communicate both inputs and outputs for instance but not limited to a NIC or modulator demodulator for accessing remote devices other files devices systems or a network a radio frequency RF or other transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router etc.

If the computer is a PC workstation server intelligent device or the like the software in the memory may further include a basic input output system BIOS omitted for simplicity . The BIOS is a set of essential software routines that initialize and test hardware at startup start the O S and support the transfer of data among the hardware devices. The BIOS is stored in some type of read only memory such as ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM or the like so that the BIOS can be executed when the computer is activated.

When the computer is in operation the processor is configured to execute software stored within the memory to communicate data to and from the memory and to generally control operations of the computer pursuant to the software. The portable communication identity application and the O S are read in whole or in part by the processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed.

When the portable communication identity application is implemented in software as is shown in it should be noted that the portable communication identity application can be stored on virtually any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with any computer related system or method. In the context of this document a computer readable medium may be an electronic magnetic optical or other physical device or means that can contain or store a computer program for use by or in connection with a computer related system or method.

The portable communication identity application can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium.

More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic or optical a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM EEPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc memory CDROM CD R W optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed or punched as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

In exemplary embodiments where the portable communication identity application is implemented in hardware the portable communication identity application can be implemented with any one or a combination of the following technologies which are each well known in the art a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

Although the exemplary embodiments described above are directed to portable communication identity services it should be appreciated that the invention is not restricted to applications for these services. Rather the invention may be applicable for providing access to other services.

As described above the exemplary embodiments can be in the form of computer implemented processes and apparatuses for practicing those processes. The exemplary embodiments can also be in the form of computer program code containing instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other computer readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the exemplary embodiments. The exemplary embodiments can also be in the form of computer program code for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the computer program code is loaded into an executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the exemplary embodiments. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments configure the microprocessor to create specific logic circuits.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the claims. Moreover the use of the terms first second etc. do not denote any order or importance but rather the terms first second etc. are used to distinguish one element from another. Furthermore the use of the terms a an etc. do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced item.

