---

title: Cigarette lighter and method
abstract: A lighter for a smoking article is provided, which includes a body having a distal body portion and a proximal body portion; an ignition element disposed in the distal portion; a smoking article engagement structure disposed in the proximal body portion; a part of the proximal body portion that is configured for exerting a vacuum upon a smoking article retained by the smoking article engagement structure; and an exhaust port in fluid communication with the part of the proximal body portion that is configured for exerting a vacuum. A method is also provided, which includes the steps of: providing a lighter including a distal ignition means and a proximal means for exertion of a vacuum upon a smoking article; placing a smoking article with its lighting end proximate the distal ignition means and its mouth end in fluid communication with the proximal means for exertion of a vacuum; actuating the proximal means for exertion of a vacuum and the distal ignition means until the lighting end is ignited; and removing the smoking article from the lighter for consumption by a smoker.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07946293&OS=07946293&RS=07946293
owner: R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
number: 07946293
owner_city: Winston-Salem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080528
---
Aspects of the present invention are directed to cigarette lighters and more particularly to cigarette lighters having an electrical heating element.

Popular smoking articles such as cigarettes have a substantially cylindrical rod shaped structure and include a charge roll or column of smokable material such as shredded tobacco e.g. in cut filler form surrounded by a paper wrapper thereby forming a so called smokable rod or tobacco rod. Normally a cigarette has a cylindrical filter element aligned in an end to end relationship with the tobacco rod. Typically a filter element comprises cellulose acetate tow plasticized using triacetin and the tow is circumscribed by a paper material known as plug wrap. A cigarette can incorporate a filter element having multiple segments. Typically the filter element is attached to one end of the tobacco rod using a circumscribing wrapping material known as tipping paper in order to provide a so called filtered cigarette. It also has become desirable to perforate the tipping material and plug wrap in order to provide dilution of drawn mainstream smoke with ambient air. Descriptions of cigarettes and the various components thereof are set forth Davis et al. Eds. 1999 .

Normally a generally cylindrical or rod shaped smoking article such as a cigarette has a generally circular cross sectional shape and each of the lighting tip and mouth end faces thereof extend virtually perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of that cigarette. A cigarette typically is employed by a smoker by lighting one end thereof and burning the tobacco rod. The smoker then receives mainstream aerosol e.g. smoke into his her mouth by drawing on the opposite end e.g. the filter or mouth end of the cigarette.

Similarly several different configurations are known for cigarette lighters. One common example uses a fuel such as liquid butane a controlled stream of which changes to a gas phase upon being released from a pressurized container and is ignited by an electric spark or flint generated spark to sustain a flame. Another common example uses liquid naphtha which is transported through a wick in a lighter to a site for ignition by an electric spark or flint generated spark to sustain a flame. Still another common example is an electric lighter which typically has a coil or other shape of a wire with high resistance which when electric current is passed therethrough gets sufficiently hot to ignite a cigarette. With each of these three lighter configurations a user smoker facilitates lighting by drawing mainstream aerosol though the cigarette into his her mouth while applying a flame or heated lighter surface to the lighting end of the cigarette for a time sufficient to establish self sustaining flame. This is commonly referred to as lighting puff. 

With regard to smoking articles such as cigarettes certain attempts have been made to alter the nature or character of smoke generated by cigarettes through the positioning of various components or component materials near the lighting ends or tip portions of cigarettes. In one regard a cigarette having a paper wrapped tobacco rod may include ingredients e.g. ammonium salts or tobaccos having relatively high ammonia levels located at its tip portion that corresponds to its lighting end. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 874 508 to Shafer et al. and U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2005 0022829 to Atwell et al. which are incorporated herein by reference. Likewise attempts have been made to alter the nature or character of smoke by positioning components near the mouth end of cigarettes. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 494 366 to Starbuck et al. entitled Cigarette Having Heat Sink Means For Removing Impurities From Cigarette Smoke. In another smoking article the geometric configuration of the lighting end may be modified from the traditional flat faced cylinder see e.g. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 868 264 to Borschke et al. .

In yet another regard certain types of cigarettes such as those marketed commercially under the brand names Premier and Eclipse by R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company have incorporated combustible fuel sources e.g. carbonaceous fuel elements that generate heat for the production of a smoke like aerosol. See for example the types of smoking articles set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 793 365 to Sensabaugh et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 183 062 to Clearman et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 551 451 to Riggs et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2007 0023056 to Cantrell et al. 2007 0215167 to Crooks et al. and 2007 0215168 to Banerjee et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The concentration of mainstream aerosol constituents changes on a puff by puff basis starting with the lighting puff and progressing down the rod. It would be desirable to provide a manner or method for providing alteration of the overall composition of mainstream aerosol generated by a cigarette particularly in the first puffs. In particular it may be desirable to selectively reduce a user s contact e.g. by inhalation or ingestion with certain compounds that are known to occur at higher concentrations in the first puff or two upon lighting a smoking article.

The present invention relates to an apparatus for lighting i.e. igniting smoking articles and in particular to a lighter configured for lighting generally rod shaped smoking articles such as cigarettes. A smoking article comprises a lighting end or tip i.e. an upstream end and a mouth end i.e. a downstream end .

In another aspect certain embodiments of the present invention may include a lighter for a smoking article which includes a body having a distal body portion and a proximal body portion an ignition element disposed in the distal portion a smoking article engagement structure disposed in the proximal body portion a part of the proximal body portion that is configured for exerting a vacuum upon a smoking article retained by the smoking article engagement structure and an exhaust port in fluid communication with the part of the proximal body portion that is configured for exerting a vacuum.

In still another aspect embodiments of the present invention may include another lighter for a smoking article which includes a body having a distal body portion and a proximal body portion that are longitudinally positionable relative to each other an ignition element disposed in the distal portion a smoking article engagement structure disposed in the proximal body portion and an exhaust port member that includes a mouthpiece element that is connected with the proximal body portion and is in fluid communication with the smoking article engagement structure as well as being configured for exertion of a vacuum upon a smoking article retained by the smoking article engagement structure.

In yet another aspect embodiments of the present invention may include a method of lighting a smoking article. One example of a method includes the steps of providing a lighter including a distal ignition means and a proximal means for exertion of a vacuum upon a smoking article placing a smoking article with its lighting end proximate the distal ignition means and its mouth end in fluid communication with the proximal means for exertion of a vacuum actuating the proximal means for exertion of a vacuum and the distal ignition means until the lighting end is ignited and removing the smoking article from the lighter for consumption by a smoker.

Smoke constituent reduction for one or more puffs of a smoking article may be achieved by providing a lighter with an electrical heating element rather than an open flame and contact with those constituent compounds by a smoker may be reduced in particular by providing and using a lighter of the present invention. Aspects of the present invention thus address the needs identified above and provide significant advantages as further discussed herein.

The present invention now will be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all aspects of the invention are shown. Indeed the present invention may be embodied in many different forms including in different proportions than those illustrated in the drawings which are not to scale and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that features of the different embodiments disclosed herein may be used in different combinations than specifically illustrated while remaining within the scope of the present invention.

The cigarette receiving region is disposed between an upward extending distal part of the second body portion and an upward extending proximal part of the first body portion . The upward extending distal part includes an ignition element configured as an electrical lighting element including an electro resistant wire element connected to a power source shown diagrammatically in preferably a DC power source such as for example a battery disposed inside the second body portion . In one embodiment the first and second body portions may be connected in part by a spring or other elastic member not shown but a variety of mechanisms will be obvious to those of skill in the art that will bias them toward each other in a manner configured to help retain the cigarette therebetween and to maintain a desirable contact pressure between the ignition element and the lighting end of a cigarette .

In alternative embodiments butane naphtha or other type of ignition means e.g. laser radiant element or even a match may be used for the ignition element but an electrical ignition element is preferred for the present application. Examples of ignition means that may be used within the scope of the current invention may include for example one or more of those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 863 047 4 140 003 5 223 695 5 388 594 5 424 929 5 591 368 5 708 258 5 954 979 6 152 725 6 615 840 6 632 082 7 214 055 7 338 280 or RE38 260 or in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2007 0089488.

The adjustable length feature is useful in one aspect for allowing use of the lighter with different lengths of cigarette. In another aspect the lighter may be used to relight a smoking article that was previously lit and therefore has a shorter length than a standard machine manufactured or hand crafted smoking article. This application may be selected by a user for the same reason as initial lighting of a smoking article e.g. one or more of just lighting the cigarette reducing the user s contact with certain mainstream aerosol components that are higher in a first puff . Alternatively a user may elect to use the lighter for a relight because he she does not like the flavor upon lighting of partially combusted smoking material.

The first body portion includes an exhaust system . The exhaust system preferably includes a cigarette engagement member a fan member a filter member and an exhaust port . The cigarette engagement member preferably is generally circular and will include a flexible sealing member around its inner circumference configured to form a preferably air tight seal around an outer circumference around the proximal mouth end of the cigarette . An air tight seal most preferably will enhance the efficiency of the lighter and the presence of a flexible sealing member will allow the lighter to accommodate smoking articles of different outer diameters and even non circular outer profiles.

The fan member preferably is a fan type or other air movement device configured to create a low pressure area partial vacuum proximal of the cigarette engagement member . The fan member may be electrical such as for example a small fan or vacuum pump examples of which include those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 780 062 4 806 081 or 5 921 757 mechanical such a miniature bellows peristaltic pump spring wound fan or any other type of device configured to create air flow that is sufficient to support ignition combustion during an operation of the lighter.

When activated with a cigarette positioned in the lighter as shown in the fan will preferably provide air flow drawn through the cigarette through the lighting end possibly with some ancillary air flow through the outer surface of the cigarette as many cigarettes include micro perforations and or paper with CORESTA values allowing air to be drawn through the wrapping material . The air flow drawn through the lighting end will pass through the length and mouth end of the cigarette being drawn into and through the fan . As that air is expelled from the fan it may be expelled directly out through an exhaust port. However as shown in the embodiment of it may be preferable to have that air directed from the fan through a filter member . A vacuum in the present application refers to providing an air flow through the smoking article that is sufficient to support ignition and combustion similar to a smoker lighting a smoking article in a traditional manner. In one example sufficient air flow may include a draw of about 1 to about 5 seconds more preferably about 2 to about 3 seconds and most preferably about 2 seconds. The draw preferably moves about 15 to about 20 cmof air per second and commonly about 17.5 cmof air per second such that the total draw may be about 15 cmto about 100 cm but preferably is about 20 cmto about 50 cm and most typically is about 35 cm.

The filter member may include mechanical filtration means such as fiber filtration e.g. of a type similar to that found in cigarette filter tow and or chemical filtration means such as for example resins activated charcoal or other materials known to capture one or more aerosol components such as for example PAHs including B a P such that one or more of those components is reduced in the aerosol expelled through the exhaust port . As shown in the fan member may be powered by the same power source as the ignition element . The lighter is shown with a button configured to simultaneously actuate the ignition element and the fan member by providing power from the power source to both. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the button may alternatively be configured as a switch or some other actuation means already known in the art or developed in the future without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example the cigarette engagement aperture may include a pressure sensitive switch that activates the fan and the heating element when a cigarette is engaged into it or the item designated as a button in the drawing figures of the various embodiments herein may be configured as a toggle switch a pressure sensitive electrode a motion activated sensor or any other kind of switching actuation means that may be located on the lighter wherever is most suitable for functionality convenience and safety. In a preferred embodiment the lighter comprises a patent fluid communication path between the mouth end of the cigarette the interior of the cigarette engagement member the fan the filter member and the exhaust port . It should be appreciated that the exhaust port of lighter embodiments within the scope of the present invention may be configured to vent into the body of the lighter. For example a means for exerting a vacuum may include a small vacuum chamber in fluid communication with the exhaust port.

A method of use for the lighter is here described with reference to . A user engages the mouth end of a smoking article such as a cigarette into the cigarette engagement member of a lighter . The user depresses the button to activate the fan member and the ignition element . The user adjusts the relative positions of the first and second body portions such that the ignition element contacts the lighting end of the cigarette . When the lighting end has been ignited the user may remove the cigarette from the lighter for his her use. The step of depressing the button to activate the fan member and the ignition element may be executed before during or after the step of adjusting the relative positions of the first and second body portions such that the ignition element contacts the lighting end of the cigarette . In other words the ignition element may be heated to the point where it will ignite the lighting end of the cigarette either before contact therewith during initiation of contact therewith or after it is already in contact therewith.

A smoking article support extends up from a central region of the body into the cigarette receiving region and is configured to cradle or otherwise support a smoking article such as for example the cigarette shown in . The upward extending distal part includes an ignition element configured as an electrical lighting element connected to a power source not shown .

The proximal end region includes a filtration system . The filtration system preferably includes a cigarette engagement member a filter member and an exhaust lumen passage passing through a mouthpiece . The cigarette engagement member preferably will include a flexible sealing member extending distally from the upward extending portion of the proximal end region and configured to form a preferably air tight seal around an outer circumference around the proximal mouth end of the cigarette with a lumen providing fluid communication to the filter member . An air tight seal most preferably will enhance the efficiency of the lighter and the presence of a flexible sealing member will allow the lighter to accommodate smoking articles of different outer diameters and of different lengths. In particular the cigarette engagement member may be constructed of a sufficient length and or flexibility to accommodate smoking articles of varied lengths and diameters.

This configuration allows a user to provide the vacuum for igniting a smoking article but decreases the user s contact with certain components of the mainstream aerosol that may be present in higher concentrations in the first puff or first couple of puffs. When activated with a cigarette positioned in the lighter as shown in the user may by placing his her mouth on the mouthpiece and drawing air therethrough provide air flow drawn through the lighting end of the cigarette possibly with some ancillary air flow through the outer surface of the cigarette as many cigarettes include micro perforations and or paper with CORESTA values allowing air to be drawn through the wrapping material . The air flow drawn through the lighting end will pass through the length and mouth end of the cigarette being drawn into and through a filter member . The filter member may include mechanical filtration means such as fiber filtration e.g. of a type similar to that found in cigarette filter tow and or chemical filtration means such as for example resins or other materials known to capture and reduce the downstream presence of one or more mainstream aerosol components such as for example PAHs such that one or more of those components is reduced in the aerosol drawn through the mouthpiece .

The lighter is shown with a button configured to actuate the ignition element . In certain embodiments the filter may be configured to include a porous resin a fibrous mass a sinuous series of air passages a ciliated plurality of high surface area passages or other structures that will promote capture and reduction of certain mainstream aerosol components most preferably without adversely affecting the flavor of the mainstream aerosol so as not to reduce a user s enjoyment. In a preferred embodiment the proximal end region comprises a patent fluid communication path between the mouth end of the cigarette the lumen of the cigarette engagement member the filter member and the mouthpiece .

A method of use for the lighter is here described with reference to . A user engages the mouth end of a smoking article such as a cigarette into the cigarette engagement member of a lighter . The user depresses the button to activate the ignition element . The user adjusts the relative positions of the cigarette and the cigarette engagement member such that the lighting end contacts the ignition element and the user then creates a vacuum proximal of the engagement member by drawing air through the mouthpiece . When the lighting end has been ignited the user may remove the cigarette from the lighter for his her use. The step of depressing the button to activate the ignition element may be executed before during or after the step of adjusting the relative positions of the cigarette engagement member and the cigarette .

A smoking article support extends up from a central region of the body into the cigarette receiving region and is configured to cradle or otherwise support a smoking article such as for example the cigarette shown in . The upward extending distal part includes an ignition element connected to a first power source . The first power source is shown with an actuation button and is configured to power the ignition element .

The proximal end region includes a three way filtration system . The filtration system includes a cigarette engagement member a fan member configured to provide a vacuum relative to the cigarette engagement member a filter member an exhaust port and a mouthpiece . A second power source is shown with an actuation button a and preferably is configured for powering the fan member . The cigarette engagement member preferably will include a flexible or otherwise adjustable circumference sealing member configured to form a preferably air tight seal around an outer circumference of the proximal mouth end of the cigarette with a lumen providing fluid communication to the filter member . An air tight seal most preferably will enhance the efficiency of the lighter and the presence of a sealing member will allow the lighter to accommodate smoking articles of different outer diameters and of different lengths. In particular the cigarette engagement member may be constructed of a sufficient length and or flexibility to accommodate smoking articles of varied lengths shapes and or diameters.

In the embodiment shown in the distal body portion includes a recessed region configured to frictionally engage an outer surface of an adjustment wheel mounted rotatingly in the proximal body portion . It should be appreciated that by rotating the adjustment wheel a user may longitudinally position the proximal and distal body portions relative to each other in a manner configured to accommodate smoking articles of different lengths. In an alternative embodiment the adjustment wheel may be spring biased e.g. by a coil spring to rotate in a manner drawing the proximal and distal body portions closer relative to each other. Such an embodiment preferably will facilitate maintaining a desirable contact between the ignition element and the lighting end of the cigarette without undesirably longitudinally compressing the cigarette .

This configuration includes three potential methods of use each described below with reference to the lighter embodiment of for a user to provide a vacuum for igniting a smoking article while decreasing the user s contact with certain components of the mainstream aerosol that are present in higher concentrations in the first puff or first couple of puffs. In each of the cigarette lighting methods described the user may begin with a cigarette positioned in the lighter as shown in . The user may then provide air flow drawn through the cigarette through the lighting end possibly with some ancillary air flow through the outer surface of the cigarette as many cigarettes include micro perforations and or paper with CORESTA values allowing air to be drawn through the wrapping material . The air flow drawn through the lighting end will pass through the length and mouth end of the cigarette being drawn into and through a filter member . The filter member may include mechanical filtration means such as fiber filtration e.g. of a type similar to that found in cigarette filter tow and or chemical filtration means such as for example resins or other materials known to capture and reduce the downstream presence of one or more mainstream aerosol components such as for example PAH and B a P such that one or more of those components is reduced in the aerosol that exits downstream of the filter .

In a first method the airflow is drawn by the user through the mouthpiece preferably using the exhaust port as a carburetor through which airflow is limited or blocked by for example a finger of the user. In a second method a user may expel air into the mouthpiece and out through the exhaust port which will create a vacuum in the fan filter region and thereby provide the air flow through the cigarette as described above. In a third method a user may activate the fan member by actuating the button which may alternatively be embodied as a switch or other actuation means in order to create a vacuum and desired air flow. During any of these methods the user will preferably actuate the ignition element by use of the actuation button which also may alternatively be embodied as a switch or other actuation means . The step of activating the ignition element may be executed during any of the above described methods for providing a vacuum to create desired air flow. As with other lighter embodiments described herein the filter may be configured to include a porous resin a fibrous mass a sinuous series of air passages a ciliated plurality of high surface area passages and or other structures that will promote capture and reduction of certain mainstream aerosol components most preferably without adversely affecting the flavor of the mainstream aerosol so as not to reduce a user s enjoyment.

A general method of using a lighter of the present invention may include the steps of providing a lighter including a distal ignition means and a proximal means for exertion of a vacuum upon a smoking article placing a smoking article with its lighting end proximate the distal ignition means and its mouth end in fluid communication with the proximal means for exertion of a vacuum actuating the proximal means for exertion of a vacuum and the distal ignition means until the lighting end is ignited and removing the smoking article from the lighter for consumption by a smoker. The lighting end may contact the distal ignition means or it may just be near enough to be ignited e.g. if the ignition means is an electronic element it may be preferable to have physical contact while proximity may be sufficient if the ignition means uses a flame .

It should be appreciated that lighter embodiments of the present invention are not configured as smoking devices. Rather the most preferred method of use for all embodiments of the present invention includes the user lighting a single smoking article then removing the smoking article from the lighter as soon as it is lit for his her own use. Preferred embodiments of the device will be sized to be portable e.g. able to fit easily into a shirt pocket purse etc. .

A lighter of the present invention may be constructed of materials that are durable and configured for long time use. For example the lighter may be configured such that one or more of the power source filter member fan member and cigarette engagement member are replaceable while keeping and re using the rest of the lighter structure. For example the lighter may be constructed to use a power source that is a readily available DC battery and or one or more of the cigarette engagement member fan member and filter member may be provided in a removable replaceable cartridge construction. Alternatively the lighter may be constructed of materials that are less durable but also less expensive such that the lighter and or its various components may be recyclable or disposable. Each of the embodiments illustrated includes an internal power source but it should be appreciated than embodiments not including an internal power source may be practiced within the scope of the present invention. For example power for heating the ignition element may be provided from an external power source such as for example a DC or AC power source.

Various types of smoking articles may be used with a lighter of the present invention and hence can be lit using such a lighter. Representative smoking articles include various types of cigarettes including various types of cigarette components including different tobacco types tobacco blends top dressing and casing materials paper wrapping materials for tobacco rods and filter elements . See for example the various representative types of cigarette components as well as the various cigarette designs formats configurations and characteristics that are set forth in Johnson Development of Cigarette Components to Meet Industry Needs 52nd T.S.R.C. September 1998 U.S. Pat. No. 5 101 839 to Jakob et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 159 944 to Arzonico et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry and U.S. Pat. No. 6 779 530 to Kraker and U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2005 0016556 to Ashcraft et al. 2005 0066986 to Nestor et al. 2005 0076929 to Fitzgerald et al. 2007 0006888 to Hicks et al. 2007 0056600 to Coleman III et al. 2007 0068540 to Thomas et al. 2007 0246055 to Oglesby and 2008 0078417 to Wanna et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Most preferably the entire smokable rod is composed of smokable material e.g. tobacco cut filler and a layer of circumscribing outer wrapping material. Alternatively the cigarette can be of the type set forth in U.S. Patent Application 2007 002115167 to Crooks et al. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Many modifications and other aspects of the invention will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing description and it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications of the present invention can be made without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific aspects disclosed and that modifications and other aspects are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

