---

title: Automated direct bids to purchase entertainment content upon a predetermined event
abstract: An automated direct transaction and delivery system for digital content (“ATDDC”) provides for automated detection of missing digital content or resources required for a player or participant to participate in a multimedia application in either a single player or multiplayer environment is described. The ATDDC automatically detects that a player may not have installed particular required content or that a title update is required in order to participate in a media session or video game. Upon detection of missing content or resources the ATDDC provides direct bid to purchase the content or resources, provides for automatic download, installation and configuration of the content while allowing the player to remain in contact with other players within a party.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08229796&OS=08229796&RS=08229796
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08229796
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080828
---
Computers and gaming systems provide a myriad of entertainment functions including gaming and interpersonal communication. Modern computer games often provide sophisticated multimedia environments involving D graphics and sound to gamers and may allow multiplayer interaction over a network such as the Internet. Gaming enthusiasts typically play computer games on a platform which may be for example a personal computers or dedicated gaming consoles such a the Xbox Video Game Console manufactured by Microsoft Corporation.

As many games allow for or are embellished in a multiplayer environment it is common for many gamers to establish relationships with other gamers who may share similar interests or preferences. Gamers may request to join various games that are being played by other gamers. Typically this involves sending a request or invitation to a player or players in a game that the gamer desires to join and waiting for an acceptance.

Many games utilize discrete content elements or resources that may be sold separately from the original game title. For example in a racetrack game the original game title may include resources to allow a player to race on the 24 Hours Of Lemans circuit in France the Daytona International Speedway in the United States The Indianapolis Motor Speedway in the United States the Fuji Speedway in Japan the EuroSpeedway in Germany but not the Melbourne Grand Prix Circuit in Australia.

In a multiplayer environment one or more players may send an invitation to a player to join the racing game. The inviting players may already have purchased the content for the Melbourne Grand Prix Circuit while the invitee may in fact not have this content. Upon being presented with an invitation and attempting to join an ongoing race on the Melbourne Grand Prix Circuit the invitee would typically be confronted with some type of error notification that he or she did not have the requisite content and resources. The invitee would then be required to back out of the commenced multiplayer session manually locate the desired content purchase the content install the content relocate the inviting players prepare his own request to join their game and then join the game that may already be well underway.

The combination of such a complex series of steps to accomplish this task may be highly frustrating and may lead to many players simply abandoning a session to which they have been invited without purchasing the required resources. For the content vendor this may lead to lower sales of content than desired due to the frustration factor.

Based upon the foregoing there is a clear need a method and system to allow multimedia participants a direct bid to purchase and install required resources contemporaneously with the detection of an event that the content is not available. Such direct to bid system should seamlessly integrate with an already ongoing game session and should be made available to a player without requiring the player to back out of a session that is already underway thereby allowing nearly continuous game session play without interruption. In addition such a direct to bid system and method show allow a player to remain in contact and communication with other players previously in contact with during the purchase of the content throughout installation and continuing through reestablishment of a gaming session with the other players.

An automated direct transaction and delivery system for digital content ATDDC provides for automated detection of missing digital content or resources required for a player or participant to participate in a multimedia application in either a single player or multiplayer environment is described.

The ATDDC automatically detects that a player may not have installed particular required content in order to participate in a media session or video game. Upon detection of missing content or resources the ATDDC provides direct bid to purchase the content or resources provides for automatic download installation and configuration of the content while allowing the player to remain in contact with other players within a party.

According to one embodiment the ATDDC may be implemented directly as a service or process on a video game system. The ATDDC may function to detect absent content events and upon detection of such events provide a bid to purchase the content to the player provide for content delivery and installation while maintaining the player s association with other player s within a party. According to this embodiment the ATDDC may interoperate with a separate party system that maintains state information regarding party affiliation.

According to an alternative embodiment an ATDDC may be directly integrated with a platform wide party system. According to this embodiment services and functions of an ATDDC may be provided within a party system framework accessible via a party system API Application Programming Interface .

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A party system shown and described with respect to may be deployed on any of the video game consoles . As described in more detail below a party system may comprise any number of processes to receive information regarding associations between players and parties maintain state information regarding players associations with particular parties detect events relating to particular game players and allow for communication of selected events between and among game players associated with a particular party even if players within the party are engaged in different game play session.

An ATDDC module may be deployed on any of the video game consoles . As described in more detail below an ATDDC module may provide services for automated transactions and download of digital content based upon events. Events may comprise a player electing to join a video game session but the player not having requisite digital content or resources for the session installed on his or her video game console.

An expanded view of a video game console on which a participant system may be deployed is also shown in . Video game console may include network interface GPU Graphics Processing Unit and CPU Central Processing Unit . CPU may provide a general purpose computer that may concurrently execute any number of processes or tasks. Video game titles running on videogame console not shown in may each comprise a process or task executed by CPU . Memory block may store program instructions and or data relating to processes or tasks executed by CPU . Thus CPU may retrieve or store data in memory block in order to perform processing. For example videogame titles may be stored in memory block and CPU may access these instructions.

GPU may provide a specialized and dedicated processor for performing graphics processing and rendering. GPU may utilize frame buffer and rendering buffer in order to perform graphics processing and rendering. Frame buffer may be a video output device that displays a video display from a complete frame of data. Information in frame buffer may comprise color values for every pixel to be displayed on a display device . Data in frame buffer may be subject to further processing and rendering by GPU the result of which may be stored in rendering buffer . Additional rendering may include personal information of a user

Audio buffer may store rendered audio data relating to a video game title executing on video came console . Data stored in audio buffer may be digital audio samples of audio information.

CPU may interact with network interface to cause information to be transmitted over network . In addition CPU may interact with network interface in order to receive information transmitted over network for example for other users such as users . Video game console may output rendered video for display on display device and rendered audio for playback on audio device .

Game hosting modules may be respectively deployed on each video game console . Each game hosting module may provide services to allow a respective player i.e. to participate in a single player or multiplayer video game session. The services may be made available via an API Application Programming Interface which is not depicted in . For example game hosting modules may each provide services for low level support for a video game session such as APIs for interacting with graphics hardware loading a desired video game from a library establishing network connections with other players in a multiplayer session saving and retrieving state information regarding video games in progress etc.

A party system may be deployed in the multiplayer environment shown in comprising the aggregate collection of a plurality of party client modules and party server . In particular a party client module may be deployed on each respective video game console . As described in detail below each party client module may perform services including detecting events related to respective users including events related to game play as well other events that relate to the state of a player within an online session. Other events may include for example a player s logging onto party server a party navigating a menu system etc. Party server as described in detail below may maintain state information regarding game players associations with particular parties game player preferences etc. In addition party server may from time to time update party client processes using the state information as described below.

ATDDC modules may be respectively installed on video game consoles . ATDDC modules may provide services for automated transactions and download of digital content based upon detection of an event which may include detection that a particular player does not have installed requisite content or resources to participate in a particular media session or video game. ATTDDC modules may interoperate concurrently with party client modules so that players may remain in contact and communication with other players in an associated party during a transaction download installation and configuration of requisite resources.

According to an alternative embodiment as shown in ATDDC functionality may be achieved in an integrated manner with a party system and without a separate ATTDDC. According to this alternative embodiment a party client module may provide event messaging and event handling capabilities via an integrated architecture and API that may allow the automated transaction and download of digital content upon detection of a predetermined event while a player remains connected and otherwise in communication with other players within a party. An exemplary embodiment of the use of a party system messaging passing and event handling capabilities in this regard is described in detail below.

According to this illustrative example it is assumed that a player is currently in a game session with one or more other players from a first party and may desire to join another party he or she is associated with in order to play a second game with players of the second party. The process is initiated in . In a player may be presented with a modal dialog box requesting a decision whether the player desires to play a new game or leave the current party the player is associated with.

In it is determined whether the player desires to play a new game or leave the current party. If the player desires to join a different party but remain in the same game No branch of in the player remains in the current game within a new party with fellow defectors. This may be achieved via a party system and party system API as described below.

If the player desires to play a new game Yes branch of flow continues with and it is determined whether the title of the new game is a disk based game. If so Yes branch of in a transition scene is provided to the player with instructions and an option to leave the current party the player is connected to. Then in the player prompted to insert a disk and game play starts in .

Otherwise if the title is not a disk based game No branch of flow continues with and it is determined whether the player has the desired title on local storage. If not No branch of flow continues with . If the player does have the title Yes branch of flow continues with and it is determined whether the player has a license for the title. If so Yes branch of flow continues with and the game is commenced. If not No branch of flow continues with and a system transition scene is presented. In title information and other details are retrieved.

In a purchase option is presented to the player while the player is still connected to other players in an associated party. In it is determined whether the user purchases or accepts the content. If not No branch of flow continues with and the player is again presented with a purchase option. If so Yes branch of flow continues with and a download of the desired content is commenced. The download is completed in .

In the game commences. In it is determined whether a title update is required. If not No branch of the player is joined to the game session in . If so Yes branch of in the player is prompted for a patch application while concurrently connected to other players in the party. In it is determined whether the player accepts the title update. If not No branch of in the player is disconnected from the live session for example and Xbox live session. If so Yes branch of in the title update is applied and the game commenced in .

According to one embodiment automated transaction and download functionality may be implemented utilizing event detection and event message passing provided by a party client module alone without a separate ATDDC. A party client module and its function within a party system including a party server are now described.

Party client module may comprise party communication module party event handler module and player interface module . Party event handler module may perform functions to detect events occurring on a video game console on which party client process is executing. Events may comprise events occurring in video games executing via game process or other events relating to the state of the player using the video game console. For example state events may comprise events relating to the player s logging onto party server navigating various administrative menus changing preference information electing to join a particular multiuser game session etc. Depending on the nature of detected events party event handler module may perform certain functions including notifying other players of the occurrence of the events.

Party communication module may perform functions to transmit information over a network and receiving information from a network. Thus for example upon receiving notification of a relevant event party event handler module may transmit information regarding the event to party communication module in order to cause the transmission of the event over a network to a relevant party. On the other hand party communication module may also receive notification of events generated by other players in a multiplayer environment and transmit those notifications to party event handler module for processing . An exemplary process executed by a party communication module both for detection of events and processing of received events is described in detail below.

Player interface module may perform functions to display a graphical user interface GUI to players. Exemplary information that may be displayed on a GUI may include information regarding relevant events generated by other players. According to one embodiment this information may be displayed seamlessly with a game play screen. An exemplary GUI is described in detail below.

Although recipient event table may be configured generally to detect events between players in accordance with the general implementation of a party system it may be utilized to detect events on a video game console and pass messages regarding those events to an event handler running on the same machine. This embodiment obviates the need for a separate ATDDC module to detect missing resource events. Event detection may be effected by a party client module by monitoring events occurring on a game hosting module or having an interrupt set to call a particular event handler module of the party client module upon occurrence of an event.

Also because the detection and event handling is performed via a party system and corresponding party client module players may remain connected to one another during the execution of a bid to purchase download and install content relating to games currently under way. Thus players are not required to disconnect from one another before completing a purchase downloading content or installing content.

It is assumed for purposes of this discussion that the exemplary event table shown in belongs to a hypothetical player Dino and may be stored locally on his video game console. According to this example Dino who is a member of the party Marauders has been designated to receive an event message when a new non disk game is requested that does not exist in local storage. Note that Dino is both the sender and recipient of this event. Similarly Dino is also designated to receive an event message upon detection of a title update.

According to one embodiment actions may be undertaken by party event handler module as described below. In particular in order to undertake an action a function or service implemented by party system API may be called using that API. As described in more detail below party system API may provide services for player notification initiation of communication sessions between players automated invitations for players to join particular games. In general any action may be automated and made available via a function or service available through party system API in order to execute the action. In addition a scripting functionality may be provided to allow the combination of multiple actions and thereby multiple calls via party system API .

For purposes of this discussion it is assumed that sender event table belongs to the hypothetical player Dino discussed with reference to . According to this example upon receiving an event notification generated by Dino that a new non disk game request for a game not in local storage has occurred a bid to purchase option download and installation service may be called. These services may perform functions similar to the title switch flow shown in . The purchase to bid service download and installation services may be separate API calls or integrated into a single call. Similarly upon detection of a title update a title update service may be executed via a corresponding API call.

In it is determined whether an incoming event has been received from a sender. If not No branch of flow continues with . If so Yes branch of flow continues with and the sender event table is consulted to look up the received event. In the action corresponding to the event as determined from the sender event table is performed. Flow then continues with .

Party table may comprise party ID field party name field and party description field . Party ID field may store a unique identifier for a party. Party name field may store a unique name for a party. Party description field may store a description of a party.

Player table may comprise player ID field player name field and IP address field . Player ID field may store a unique identifier of a player. Player name field may store a name for a player associated with a player ID stored in player ID field . IP address field may store an IP address of a player that has logged onto party server . In the case that the player is not logged on IP address field may be set to NULL.

Device table may comprise device ID field video profile field audio profile field and processor profile field . Device ID field may store a unique identifier of a device and in particular a video game console. Video profile field may store information indicating an associated video profile and capabilities for the device. Audio profile field may store information indicating an associated audio profile and capabilities for a device. Processor profile field may store information indicating a processor profile of a device.

Party player association table may comprise party ID field player ID field and device ID field . Thus in order to associate a player with a particular party and device corresponding entries in a player association table may be created. According to one embodiment a single player may be associated with more than one party and or multiple players may be associated with a single device.

Game table may comprise game ID field and game name field . Game ID field may store a unique identifier of a video game. Game name field may store a name of a video game associated with a game ID stored in game ID field .

In particular GUI may display bid to purchase options execution of download and installation progress for missing content simultaneous with game play information and communication information with respect to other players in an associated party. Thus a player required to install new content in order to participate in a game session with another within an associated player may remain in communication with the other player and is not otherwise required to disconnect from that player while the purchase download and installation is completed.

Referring to game play pane may present game play action for a current game that a player is currently playing. Party members pane may show other players and their respective online offline status indicated in bold along with their associated party. Thus according to the example shown in gamers GameLover295 Darth Dino GameGirl RedJoe15 GameAlie and Henry are all players associated with the player. Dino and GameGirl are currently online. As shown in associated players may belong to different parties as noted because a player may be associated with multiple parties. Automated events selection button may allow a player to initiate a selection of events the player desires to be notified of with respect to other players and may cause the initiation of an additional GUI for selection of these event. Games pane may show current games installed on the associated video game console. Video chat pane may allow for a video and audio chat session with a player even if that that player is not currently in a multiplayer game session with the associated game player. For example a video and text chat with Fred may be ongoing with game play and concurrently with purchase download and installation of missing content as shown in .

Event notification pane may display textual indicators of events that the associated player has subscribed to with respect to other players. These event notifications may be displayed to the associated player without requiring the player to exit the current gaming session. In particular event notification pane may display prompts and update information to a player regarding missing content the progression of a download and or installation of missing content. For example as shown in Dino is prompted that Fred would like to play Grand Prix XI. Upon detection that Dino is missing the content and resources for the Melbourne Grand Prix Track Dino is presented with a bid to purchase the Melbourne track content and resources. Dino elects to purchase the content and is presented with an indicator that his credit card has been charged and a download and installation has successfully completed.

Continuing with the example GUI shown in Dino remains in contact and communication with Fred during the purchase download and installation of missing content for Grand Prix XI. According to this example Dino s comments are shown in plain font while Fred s responses are shown in bold. Fred asks Dino to play and whether he has the content. Dino responds that he is currently purchasing the content and keeps Fred apprised of the download and installation. Upon completion the player s comment further and game play commences.

The example embodiments are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the example embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The example embodiments may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The example embodiments also may be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the example embodiments includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to processing unit . Processing unit may represent multiple logical processing units such as those supported on a multi threaded processor. System bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus . System bus may also be implemented as a point to point connection switching fabric or the like among the communicating devices.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

System memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

Computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. Hard disk drive is typically connected to system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

Computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . Remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment computer is connected to LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over WAN such as the Internet. Modem which may be internal or external may be connected to system bus via user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Computing environment typically includes at least some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing environment . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computing environment . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to the structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features or acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The inventive subject matter is described with specificity to meet statutory requirements. However the description itself is not intended to limit the scope of this patent. Rather it is contemplated that the claimed subject matter might also be embodied in other ways to include different steps or combinations of steps similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies.

