---

title: Material with core-shell structure
abstract: Disclosed is a material having a composite particle, the composite particle including an outer shell and a core. The core is made from a lithium alloying material and the outer shell has an inner volume that is greater in size than the core of the lithium alloying material. In some instances, the outer mean diameter of the outer shell is less than 500 nanometers and the core occupies between 5 and 99% of the inner volume. In addition, the outer shell can have an average wall thickness of less than 100 nanometers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08057900&OS=08057900&RS=08057900
owner: Regents of the University of New Mexico
number: 08057900
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080620
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE AC52 06NA25396 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to a material in particular to a material having a core shell structure.

The energy requirements for batteries are continually increasing while constraints on volume and mass continue to be present. Further the demand for safe low cost and environmentally friendly materials is increasing. These demands and battery specifications cannot be met using traditional lithium ion battery chemistries. Although lithium ion batteries have long been optimized and have demonstrated stable energies these systems are limited by the amount of lithium that can be reversibly inserted and removed from the battery s active material structure.

The requirements for greater performance safety low cost and environmentally friendly materials can only be achieved through the development of new battery materials. Researchers have proposed the replacement of the carbon based anode with tin. Tin alloys with lithium during the charging of the battery. The lithium tin alloy forms a maximum concentration of 4.4 lithium atoms per tin atom a concentration which equals a capacity of 993 mAh g. A traditional carbon based anode has a theoretical capacity of 372 mAh g. Therefore the replacement of traditional carbon based anode batteries with tin based anode batteries could result in higher energy capabilities.

Research has demonstrated that there are two main issues with the use of a tin based anode. The first is a poor cycle life and the second is a poor utilization of the tin. A poor cycle life is defined as poor retention of battery energy as a function of the number of charge discharge cycles. Researchers have taken two approaches to solving these problems. First by forming an intermetallic compound of tin and at least one other metal and second by adding a non electrochemically active material to the anode composite. However the prior research has failed to address the fundamental causes of the poor performance of lithium tin batteries which are 1 a large volume expansion of the tin lithium particles resulting from the alloying of lithium with tin on charge and 2 the breaking apart of tin agglomerates during the above stated volume expansion. The volume expansion results in separation of the tin particles from the matrix during subsequent cycles and breaking of tin agglomerates results in fine particles with exposed fresh surface area. This fresh surface area is not in contact with the matrix and thus like the separation of tin particles from the matrix results in decrease in battery capacity. Therefore there is a need for a lithium tin battery that exhibits adequate cycle life and proper utilization of the tin.

Disclosed is a material having a composite particle the composite particle including an outer shell and a core. The core is made from a lithium alloying material and the outer shell has an inner volume that is greater in size than the core of the lithium alloying material. The inner volume can include two separate volumes a first volume of solid material and a second volume of void space. In some instances the outer mean diameter of the outer shell is less than 500 nanometers and the core occupies between 5 and 99 of the inner volume. In addition the outer shell can have an average wall thickness of less than 100 nanometers.

The present invention includes a material made from a composite particle the composite particle having an outer shell with a core within the outer shell. The outer shell has an inner volume that is greater than the core and the inner volume can include two separate volumes a first volume of solid material and a second volume of void space. It is appreciated that the term void space refers to space or volume where no solid matter is present but in which gas and or liquid can be present. As such the inner volume of the outer shell can contain at least two phases a solid phase that is at least partially made from a material that is capable of alloying with lithium and a non solid phase made from a gas and or liquid. It is thus appreciated that the inner volume is greater than a volume of the solid phase. In some instances the core is solid when it is at a temperature below the solid s melting point. For example the core can be made from a lithium alloying material illustratively including tin a binary tin alloy a ternary tin alloy and the like at temperatures below 100 C. The composite particle can have a mean outer diameter of less than 500 nanometers an average wall thickness of less than 100 nanometers and the core of the lithium alloying material can occupy between 5 and 99 of the inner volume within the outer shell. It is appreciated that a plurality of composite particles can be assembled to make an electrode the electrode being part of an electrochemical device. As such the present invention has utility as a material for use in an electrochemical device.

A method is also disclosed for producing the composite particle. The method includes providing a precursor powder having components of the outer shell and the core. The powders of the precursor material are suspended in a gas to form an aerosol and then passed through a plasma torch. Passing the precursor powders through the plasma torch produces a shell core precursor wherein the core occupies generally 100 of the inner volume of the outer shell. The core is then reduced in size in order to produce an outer shell having a core that occupies from 5 to 99 of the inner volume of the outer shell. If so desired a plurality of the composite particles can be assembled for example with a binder to produce an electrode.

Turning now to a material made from a composite particle according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown generally at reference numeral . The material includes a composite particle the particle having an outer shell an inner volume and a core . It is appreciated that the inner volume can include two separate volumes a first volume of the core and a second volume of void space . As illustrated in this figure the core has a size that is less than the inner volume within the outer shell . In some instances the outer shell will have the shape of a sphere however this is not required.

The core can be made from a lithium alloying material illustratively including tin a binary tin alloy a ternary tin alloy and the like. In some instances the core can include a tin copper alloy. In the alternative the lithium alloying material does not have to include tin. In other instances the core contains a lithium alloying element s such as tin silicon aluminum germanium copper and combinations thereof. In any event the core can occupy between 5 to 99 of the inner volume . The outer shell can be made from a variety of materials. For example materials such as oxides carbonates halides carbides graphite grapheme anthracene and amorphous carbon can be used to form the outer shell of a composite particle so long as the resulting outer shell is an electronic conductor an ionic conductor and or a mixed conductor.

The outer mean diameter of the composite particle is less than 500 nanometers. In some instances the outer mean diameter of the composite particle is less than 200 nanometers while in other instances the outer mean diameter is less than 100 nanometers. In still yet other instances the outer mean diameter of the composite particle is less than 50 nanometers. The average wall thickness of the outer shell is less than 100 nanometers can be less than 50 nanometers and in some instances is less than 20 nanometers.

Turning now to a schematic illustration of a step in a process that produces the composite particle is shown. In this figure a precursor composite particle has an outer shell with a core . The outer shell and the core can have the same general chemical composition as the outer shell and the core of the composite particle . As illustrated by the arrow shown in the core of the composite particle is reduced in size such that the composite particle is produced. It is appreciated that the outer shell and the core do not have to have the same general chemical composition as the outer shell and the core with the final composition of the outer shell and core obtained during processing of the composite particle into the composite particle .

Turning now to a schematic illustration is shown wherein the core of the composite particle undergoes alloying with lithium e.g. during a charging stage of an electrochemical device thereby resulting in a core . The core can have an expanded volume that occupies up to 100 of the inner volume . Upon discharging of the electrochemical device the core is de alloyed and reduced back to the core . In this manner the core made from a lithium alloying material can undergo charging and discharging cycles with an associated volume expansion and contraction respectively without failure of the outer shell . In so doing the core and or remains in contact with the outer shell and affords an electrode with improved cycling capacity.

A method for producing the material disclosed herein is illustratively shown in . The method includes providing a precursor powder at step and passing the precursor powder through a plasma torch at step . Upon passing the precursor powder through the plasma torch at step a shell core precursor powder is produced at step e.g. a plurality of composite particles illustrated in . After the shell core precursor powders have been produced at step the core is reduced in size at step thereby providing the shell core composite particles having an inner volume greater than the core at step . Such a shell core composite particle is illustrated as the composite particle in . If so desired an electrode can be made from the composite particles produced at step at step .

In order to better illustrate the embodiments described above an example of a composite particle and a method of manufacture is provided.

In an attempt to produce a carbon shell tin core composite particle a dry precursor powder was prepared having a tin to anthracene ratio of 50 1. It is appreciated that other aromatic coke forming compounds such as naphthalene or acenaphthalene can be used for providing the carbon material. The precursor powder was suspended in an argon gas thereby producing an aerosol gas of argon with anthracene and tin. The aerosol gas was passed through a low power atmospheric or near atmospheric pressure plasma with microwave energy focused within a coupler. It is appreciated that plasmas generated using other methods can also be used. In addition to the aerosol gas a second supply of argon gas was passed through the plasma area. Though not being bound by theory the inventors postulate that upon passing through the plasma hot zone the carbon within the precursor powder undergoes a carbonization mechanism forming carbon fragments. In addition the tin within the precursor powder melts and upon cooling forms particles via a nucleation process. The carbon fragments collect on the same nuclei as the tin and based on relative miscibility segregate to the nuclei surface. The nucleating particles exit from the hot zone into an afterglow region in which no further growth occurs.

After the carbon tin precursor powders were produced said core shell particles were subjected to a non acid treatment that resulted in the partial dissolution of the tin core within the carbon outer shell. In particular carbon tin precursor composite particles were reacted with a basic solution. After such treatment the tin cores that were present within the carbon outer shells as shown in were reduced in size as illustrated in . In this manner composite particles were produced having necessary vacant space within an outer shell for the tin core to expand during lithium alloying without damage to the outer shell. It is appreciated that oxidants could also be employed to accelerate the reaction.

It is appreciated that the example given above is for illustrative purposes only and other methods are included that produce a composite particle having an outer shell with a core the core being of reduced size such that expansion of the core can occur within the outer shell without failure of said outer shell.

The foregoing drawings discussion and description are illustrative of specific embodiments of the present invention but they are not meant to be limitations upon the practice thereof. Numerous modifications and variations of the invention will be readily apparent to those of skill in the art in view of the teaching presented herein. It is the following claims including all equivalents which define the scope of the invention.

