---

title: Topographical analysis system
abstract: A topographical analysis system that provides an integrated approach for gathering available topographical data and synthesizing the topographical data for various uses by various users. The topographical data may be real time data, historical data, and/or most recent data. The processing of the data utilizes cloud resources in a cloud computing architecture. In addition, cloud resources are utilized to store various accumulated topographical data in a manner such that the cloud resources can quickly process calculations and return results to an end user requesting certain data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08195682&OS=08195682&RS=08195682
owner: Empire Technology Development LLC.
number: 08195682
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080829
---
Topographical analysis uses information from various diverse sources. For example one of the sources may be from physical inspection such as for determining soil type and the like. Other topographical data may be obtained from satellite imaging and other visual data sources. Once the information is obtained from these sources the information may be stored for use by special software to address the needs of a specific organization. This manner of topographical analysis has been the norm for many years.

Described herein among other things are implementations for a topographical analysis system that provides an integrated approach for gathering available topographical data and synthesizing the topographical data for various uses by various users. The topographical data may be real time data historical data and or most recent data. The processing of the data uses cloud resources in a cloud computing architecture. In addition cloud resources are used to store various accumulated topographical data in a manner such that the cloud resources can quickly process calculations and return results to an end user requesting certain data.

The Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments of the present topographical analysis system and technique will now be described in detail with reference to these Figures in which like numerals refer to like elements throughout.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures can be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and made part of this disclosure.

This disclosure is drawn intera alia to methods apparatus computer programs and systems related to topographical analysis systems.

In overview cloud may include several computing devices that work simultaneously to act as a single unit. Tasks are automatically distributed among the several computing devices. One embodiment of a computing device is illustrated in and described below. Cloud provides a convenient and inexpensive way to add additional processing capabilities. Because the cost of computing devices have dropped low cost computing devices may be added to the cloud to provide additional processing capabilities instead of purchasing a more expensive higher end computing device with increased processing capabilities to replace a computing device with insufficient processing capabilities. Therefore the cloud with all its computing power can perform intensive tasks efficiently and cost effectively. Results from the processing are transferred to a user device for presentation. The cloud may utilize one of many different cloud computing architectures. In one embodiment the cloud computing architecture includes a massive network of cloud servers interconnected as if in a grid running in parallel. The cloud servers can be any variation of a computing device one example of which is described below with reference to . In general the cloud servers provide parallel processing capabilities archival capabilities and storage capabilities. One exemplary cloud computing architecture is described in conjunction with below.

Middleware includes software components that interact with the cloud servers. For example middleware may include components that provide authentication data transfer response handling and the like. Middleware may be configured to provide results to a user device after analysis by resources in the cloud. Examples of components of an exemplary middleware architecture are described in conjunction with below.

User device includes dumb terminals laptop computers desktop computers mobile devices hand held devices and the like. Because the cloud performs the intense processing it is not necessary for user device to have substantial processing power or memory. Therefore typically user device is configured with minimal processing power and memory to help conserve battery life. illustrates basic components of a computing device that may be utilized as user device .

Topographical analysis system includes one or more topographical processing modules . While the topographical processing modules are shown within a box in one skilled in the art will appreciate that the processing modules may be distributed over multiple computing devices and may execute portions on multiple computing devices. In addition one or more topographical processing modules or a portion of a topographical processing module may execute within cloud user device and or as middleware . The topographical processing modules handle user queries organize data for the queries handle access to data in storage and the like.

Topographical analysis system also includes one or more data points such as data points . Each data point represents a source of data applicable for processing within the topographical analysis system. For example data point may include any publicly registered data from land use planning conservation commissions a registry of deeds and other municipal institutions. Data point may include topographical data such as surveys percolation tests and or soil tests. Data point may include topographical conditions obtained via satellite imagery and or other video resources. Data point may include live data received from operations such as surveying. These and other types of topographical information are envisioned as data points in the topographical analysis system. The data points may be available on a real time basis stored in a cloud storage system and or updated when requested. The source for each data point may push the data associated with the data point on a pre determined interval of time or may wait for a request to update the data. Historical data for each data point may be stored in the cloud storage system using database techniques.

At operation data points applicable to the query are obtained. The data points may be obtained as real time data from one or more data sources. In another embodiment one or more of the data points may be retrieved from a data storage unit residing within the cloud. Stored data points along with real time data may be used to display chronological visual changes to a topographical area over time. For example cliffs of the National Seashore at Truro Mass. the Sphinx in Egypt and shifting sands around islands can be measured and compared in a time lapse display. The data points may be retrieved based on a street address satellite or GPS positioning data or the like.

At operation the data points are sent to cloud resources for synthesizing based on the query. The data points are weighed subject to specific rules applicable to the query. The processing may generate past present and or future topographical modeling scenarios. For example a layout for a planned development may be determined based on several data points which may include county and city regulations and codes. Because cloud resources provide the computational power intense calculations may be performed in an expeditious manner.

At operation a response is sent to the user device. The response may be packaged based on the type of user device that requested the query. This allows the response to be packaged in a manner that is compatible with the user device interface. The response includes answers to the query based upon the available data points. The response may include a warning if it is determined that the data points indicate that guidelines from local regional or national organizations were not met. For example a warning may be sent if a user suggests building a 4800 square foot home on a parcel of land that would not support that large of a home due to soil conditions height restrictions or the like. The warning may appear as color coded line text that the user may click to get the rational for the warning.

The system described above may be used in several areas. For example construction planning and conservation organizations may use the present topographical system to provide reports for local regional national and global individuals businesses and governments. Data points available from builders designers and developers may be used to automatically site structures and or manipulate the topography of a site based upon regulations and constraints applicable to the site. The system may be used to determine erosion at different locations and predict future erosion at that location.

The processes described above may be implemented using computer executable instructions in software or firmware but may also be implemented in other ways such as with programmable logic electronic circuitry or the like. In some alternative embodiments certain of the operations may even be performed with limited human intervention. Moreover the process is not to be interpreted as exclusive of other embodiments but rather is provided as illustrative only.

Additionally device may also have other features and functionality. For example device may also include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Computing device includes one or more communication connections that allow computing device to communicate with one or more computers and or applications . Device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a monitor speakers printer PDA mobile phone and other types of digital display devices may also be included. These devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

The user interaction interface allows a user to select a service from the service catalog . The request gets passed to the system management component to find the correct resources. The system management component then calls the provisioning tool to carve out resources in the cloud. The provisioning tool may deploy the requested stack or web application as well. The monitoring and metering component may optionally track the usage of the cloud so that used resources may be attributed to a certain user.

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems. The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

While various embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in art. The various sports and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

