---

title: Hardware interface for enabling direct access and security assessment sharing
abstract: Native IPv6 capabilities are provided to an IPv4 network node, device, or endpoint using a hardware interface that supports network communication under a Direct Access model. The Direct Access model supports IPv6 communication with IPsec and enforces Network Access Protection (“NAP”) health requirement policies for endpoints that are network clients. A Direct Access-ready server is enabled using a hardware interface that implements IPv4 to IPv6 translation and optionally IPsec termination capability. A Direct Access-ready client is enabled using a hardware interface that implements IPv4 to IPv6 translation, IPsec termination capability, and which optionally provides NAP (Network Access Protection) capabilities for Direct Access-ready clients that are configured as mobile information appliances. The hardware interface may be implemented as a network interface card (“NIC”) or as a chipset.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08739289&OS=08739289&RS=08739289
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08739289
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080624
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 042 691 filed Apr. 4 2008 entitled Hardware Interface for Enabling Direct Access and Security Assessment Sharing the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference with the same effect as if set forth at length herein.

While the Internet continues its unprecedented exponential growth the recent broad adoption of always on broadband technologies such as Digital Subscriber Line DSL and cable modems coupled with the pending integration of personal data assistants PDAs and mobile phones into always addressable mobile information appliances significantly elevates the urgency to expand the address space that Internet connected systems use to communicate. The address space currently used is defined as part of the Internet Protocol or the IP the network layer of the TCP IP Transport Control Protocol Internet Protocol protocol suite. The version of IP commonly used today is Version 4 IPv4 which has not been substantially changed since RFC 791 Request for Comments under the Internet Engineering Task Force or IETF was published in 1981. Over that time IPv4 has proven to be robust easily implemented and interoperable and has stood the test of scaling an internetwork a network of networks to a global utility the size of today s Internet. While this is a tribute to its initial design moving forward to an even grander scale requires laying a new foundation.

IPv6 will continue the tradition of the IPv4 protocol which gained much of its acceptance by defining mechanisms to tie systems together over a wide variety of disparate networking technologies. Already defined link layer mappings for transporting IPv6 include Ethernet Point to Point Protocol PPP Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Token Ring Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Frame Relay IEEE 1394 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and IPv4. From the architectural perspective an IPv4 based infrastructure appears to IPv6 enabled systems as a single segment non broadcast multi access NBMA network. The capability to send IPv6 traffic over existing IPv4 networks will provide an initial reach as broad as the current Internet limited only by the endpoints ability and readiness to make use of it.

To address concerns about security and privacy IPv6 includes IP layer security known as Internet Protocol security IPsec . IPsec is an industry standard security technology that provides for data authenticity and integrity as well as data confidentiality across the array of protocols used by the various applications. Providing the capability at the network layer frees the developer from having to add specific security capabilities to every application.

New capabilities such as scoped addresses useful for restricting the default range of file and printer sharing stateless autoconfiguration lowering the complexity and management burden and mandatory IP security permitting end to end data authentication and integrity and privacy of connections are expected to drive rapid adoption. In addition to the new capabilities the technologies currently used to extend the lifetime of IPv4 such as Network Address Translators NATs frequently break existing applications and are already restricting the flexibility to deploy new ones. NATs are popular today because they allow multiple systems to share a single scarce public IPv4 address but in doing so they tend to enforce a client server usage model where the client uses private address space with only the server existing in public address space. IPv6 brings back the capability of end to end control of communications making networking applications simpler as the network again becomes transparent.

The conversion from IPv4 to IPv6 is anticipated to be a larger task for the industry than the preparation for Year 2000. It will affect nearly all networked applications end systems infrastructure systems and network architectures. It is critical that this change be approached with responsibility to prevent costly unproductive missteps that result from broad premature availability of technologies. Unlike the Year 2000 issue the conversion to IPv6 has no specific timeline. However as noted earlier the rate of IPv4 address consumption is rapidly increasing. Simplicity of deployment will be the key to rapid adoption.

The migration of IPv4 to IPv6 will not happen overnight. There will be a period of transition when both protocols are in use over the same infrastructure. To address this transition period the designers of IPv6 have created technologies and address types so that IPv6 nodes can communicate with each other in a mixed environment even if they are separated by an IPv4 only infrastructure.

RFC 2893 defines a variety of different node types. An IPv4 only node implements only IPv4 and has only IPv4 addresses and does not support IPv6. Most hosts and routers installed today are IPv4 only nodes.

An IPv6 only node implements only IPv6 and has only IPv6 addresses and does not support IPv4. This node is only able to communicate with IPv6 nodes and applications. This type of node is not common today but might become more prevalent as smaller devices such as cellular phones and handheld computing devices include the IPv6 protocol.

For coexistence to occur the largest number of nodes IPv4 or IPv6 nodes can communicate using an IPv4 infrastructure an IPv6 infrastructure or an infrastructure that is a combination of IPv4 and IPv6. True migration is achieved when all IPv4 nodes are converted to IPv6 only nodes. However for the foreseeable future practical migration is achieved when as many IPv4 only nodes as possible are converted to IPv6 IPv4 nodes. IPv4 only nodes can communicate with IPv6 only nodes only when using an IPv4 to IPv6 proxy or translation gateway.

While such gateways can often perform satisfactorily they often represent an additional expense compared with native IPv6 implementations. And because the IPv4 to IPv6 proxy or translation gateway needs to terminate the IPsec connection for encrypted traffic before translation can be performed the link between the gateway and IPv4 infrastructure can pose a security vulnerability in some cases. In addition use of the gateway typically causes confusion in a given domain with regard to Domain Name System DNS infrastructure because the IPv4 infrastructure will register with DNS servers in the domain as an IPv4 server for example even though the gateway supports IPv6. Upgrading DNS infrastructure to deal with mixed IPv4 IPv6 capabilities is not a trivial undertaking and represents additional costs.

This Background is provided to introduce a brief context for the Summary and Detailed Description that follow. This Background is not intended to be an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter nor be viewed as limiting the claimed subject matter to implementations that solve any or all of the disadvantages or problems presented above.

Native IPv6 capabilities are provided to an IPv4 network node device or endpoint collectively referred to as endpoint using a hardware interface that supports network communication under a Direct Access model. The Direct Access model supports IPv6 communication with IPsec and enforces Network Access Protection NAP health requirement policies for endpoints that are network clients. A Direct Access ready server is enabled using a hardware interface that implements IPv4 to IPv6 translation and optionally IPsec termination capability. A Direct Access ready client is enabled using a hardware interface that implements IPv4 to IPv6 translation IPsec termination capability and that optionally provides NAP Network Access Protection capabilities for Direct Access ready clients that are configured as mobile information appliances. The hardware interface may be implemented as a network interface card NIC or as a chipset.

The Direct Access hardware interface advantageously enables non Direct Access ready devices including legacy and non Windows based devices to be readily upgraded with native IPv6 capabilities at low cost with enhanced security and without modifications or changes to the installed software. In addition for servers using the Direct Access hardware interface eliminates the DNS confusion in a domain that is ordinarily generated by the use of an IPv4 to IPv6 gateway.

In an illustrative example the Direct Access hardware interface is further configured to provide Enterprise Security Assessment Sharing ESAS capabilities to an IPv4 endpoint. Here a semantic abstraction called a security assessment is used to enable sharing of security related information among different ESAS enabled endpoints. The security assessments existing in a particular computing environment function to provide a security context that gives an ESAS enabled endpoint a new way to look at its own locally available information. The security context enables an ESAS enabled endpoint to combine or correlate evidence from security assessments received from a variety of different sources and across object types in order to significantly enhance the quality of its detection of potential security incidents and reduces the level of false positive and false negative identifications of security incidents in the environment. In addition to implementing in hardware some or all of ESAS functionality that is typically provided by software the Direct Access hardware interface may be configured to send and receive security assessments over a defined channel. The channel may comprise a link or use a defined IP address and may further be handled with a particular quality of service QoS to guarantee communication of security assessments even in cases where the network is congested. The Direct Access hardware can thus extend the advantages and benefits of ESAS to users who are outside the enterprise network while also increasing the number of ESAS enabled endpoints that are available to detect potential security threats.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Like reference numerals indicate like elements in the drawings. Elements in the drawings are not drawn to scale unless otherwise indicated.

The NAT PT component functions as a migration tool to enable the operator of the domain to transition IPv4 networks to IPv6 networks. By placing NAT PT functionality in the gateway an endpoint in an IPv6 only node can connect with the server infrastructure in the IPv4 only node. The NAT PT component also supports an Application Layer Gateway ALG functionality to enable domain name to address mapping in the DNS infrastructure that is typically provided in the domain . Specifically the ALG provides the ability to resolve IPv6 addresses into DNS queries and responses into their IPv4 address bindings and vice versa as DNS packets traverse between the IPv4 and IPv6 networks. This additional complexity is caused by the inability of the server infrastructure to register with the DNS infrastructure as a native IPv6 server.

The IPsec tunnel endpoint component enables the gateway to terminate an IPsec connection. An IPsec tunnel uses an encrypted IP header and payload during transit. In this way the tunnel provides protection for the entire packet. An entire IP packet is first encapsulated for example with an authentication header or encapsulating security payload header and then the result is encapsulated with an additional IP header. The additional IP header contains the source and destination of the tunnel endpoints. After the packet reaches the first destination at the tunnel endpoint it can be decapsulated and sent to the final destination by reading the IP address.

NAP functionality will typically be implemented using both client and server components that allow the creation and enforcement of health requirement policies that define the required software and system configurations for computers that connect to a given network. NAP enforces health requirements by inspecting and assessing the health of client computers limiting network access when client computers are deemed noncompliant and remediating noncompliant client computers for unlimited network access. NAP enforces health requirements on client computers that are attempting to connect to a network. NAP can also provide ongoing health compliance enforcement while a compliant client computer is connected to a network.

In some implementations the server infrastructure will also employ a NAP server side component that is implemented in this example as a derivative of IPSec known as IPsec with AuthIP or authenticated IP as identified by reference numeral . This functionality is supported in recent releases of Microsoft Windows operating systems and provides simplified IPSec policy configuration and maintenance in many configurations and additional flexibility for IPsec peer authentication. In particular the IPsec with AuthIP component is configured to verify the NAP certificate on the server .

As shown in the software protocol stack on the endpoint includes an application layer that interacts with a transport layer that supports protocols such as TCP and UDP User Datagram Protocol . An IPv4 internet layer implements data transport through network interface layer . A hardware interface driver provides the necessary abstraction of the hardware interface to the protocol stack .

The components include a translation component and an IPsec component . The translation component provides translation from IPv4 to IPv6 as well as an ALG functionality to make modifications to the DNS registry. The IPsec component enables termination of IPsec connections. In this example the IPsec component is implemented to include NAP enforcement i.e. component supports IPsec NAP . The hardware NIC thus provides non Direct Access ready interfaces i.e. IPv4 and non IPsec interfaces as respectively indicated by reference numerals and to provide interoperability without modification to the endpoint in which it is installed while enabling native IPv6 capability.

The NIC further includes an ESAS component which provides Enterprise Security Assessment Sharing capabilities to an endpoint in which the NIC is installed. The ESAS component may implement some or all of the ESAS functionality in hardware that is typically provided by software. Illustrative ESAS scenarios which utilize an endpoint having an installed NIC with ESAS capability are shown in and described in the accompanying text.

It is noted that both the NIC and chipset may be alternatively implemented using a dual stack arrangement in which both IPv4 and IPv6 are supported. In this implementation either separate IPv4 and IPv6 network stacks may be used or more typically the stacks will share some common code. Dual stack arrangements are described for example in RFC 4213 and are often used to provide transition mechanisms between IPv4 and IPv6 so that endpoints in a system can still be accessed using solely IPv4 if needed. It is further noted that the NIC and chipset may be configured to interoperate with either Direct Access clients or Direct Access servers as needed to meet the requirements of a particular implementation.

The chipset further includes an ESAS component which provides Enterprise Security Assessment Sharing capabilities to an endpoint in which the chipset is installed. The ESAS component may implement some or all of the ESAS functionality in hardware that is typically provided by software. Illustrative ESAS scenarios which utilize an endpoint having an installed NIC with ESAS capability are shown in and described in the accompanying text.

An illustrative example in which an ESAS arrangement is implemented using the present hardware interface now presented. In an enterprise computing environment for example an office of a business a number of personal computers workstations servers and the like along with other devices such as mass storage subsystems internal network interfaces and external network interfaces are typically interconnected to provide an integrated environment in which information may be generated accessed from external sources and shared among various users. Commonly users perform a variety of operations including order receipt manufacturing shipping billing inventory control document preparation and management e mail web browsing and other operations in which creation access and sharing of data is beneficial.

Currently security is typically provided for an enterprise using a variety of different security products that are each normally arranged to monitor only a partial portion of enterprise wide data. That is security products are arranged as separate local islands where each product monitors assesses and takes action with respect to different parts of the data within the enterprise. For example the host security product edge firewall product NIDS product NAP product and other discrete security products typically provide security for the various different parts of the enterprise.

While these security products often perform satisfactorily in many applications detection of security incidents often suffers from undesirably high levels of false positive and false negative occurrences as a result of the monitoring of only partial enterprise security data. It has also been difficult to provide effective common management across all the enterprise security product islands. Current attempts to correlate enterprise wide security data have high management and maintenance costs and have problems in scaling. Accordingly ESAS provides a single enterprise wide view to enable security administrators to define and enforce clear simple and unified enterprise wide policies for automatic responses to security incidents.

As noted above ESAS relies upon a semantic abstraction called a security assessment that enables sharing of security related information between different security products called security endpoints in an enterprise security environment. A security assessment is defined as a tentative assignment by a security endpoint of broader contextual meaning to information i.e. data in some context that is collected about an object of interest in the environment such as a computer user service e.g. a website data or the enterprise as a whole. The security assessment utilizes a concise vocabulary for a security endpoint to declare that an object in the environment falls into a particular assessment category such as compromised or under attack along with the severity e.g. low medium high critical of the detected incident.

A security assessment is tentative because it is subject to some uncertainty and is valid for a limited period of time. The tentative nature of a security assessment is reflected in two of its components a fidelity field which expresses the level of confidence the security endpoint has in its assignment of contextual meaning and a time to live TTL field which reflects the security endpoint s estimate of the time period for which the security assessment is expected to be valid. Thus for example a security assessment may be used by a security endpoint to declare in light of that security endpoint s current understanding of one or more security incidents that a particular machine is compromised with a critical level of severity with medium fidelity and having a TTL of 30 minutes. A variety of types of security assessments may be used in any given enterprise security environment having for example various combinations of assessment category and object type.

Security endpoints are enabled with functionality to publish security assessments onto a security assessment channel operating in the environment as well as subscribe to a subset of available security assessments published by other security endpoints. The security assessments existing in the environment that are active i.e. those having a TTL which indicates the assessments are still valid function to provide a security context that gives such an ESAS enabled endpoint a new way to look at its own locally available information. That is the security context enables the ESAS enabled endpoint to combine or correlate evidence from security assessments received from a variety of different sources and across object types in order to significantly enhance the quality of its detection of potential security incidents. The ESAS enabled endpoint then makes a decision as to what local action or response is appropriate for each type of security assessment whether received from another security endpoint or internally generated by the security endpoint itself in accordance with a set of response policies. Incident detection is both efficient and cost effective because the security context enables distributed processing of enterprise wide information in the form of security assessments without the burden of sharing large amounts of raw data throughout the enterprise most of which is completely irrelevant due to the lack of any context . ESAS enabled endpoints are further arranged to roll back the local action upon expiration of the security assessment that prompted the local action i.e. when the security assessment exceeds the time to live specified in the TTL field .

In most typical ESAS implementations a specialized security endpoint called an ESAS central server is utilized. The ESAS central server is coupled to the security assessment channel and performs as a centralized audit point by subscribing to all security assessments logging the security assessments and also logging the local actions taken by security endpoints in response to security incidents in the environment. The ESAS central server provides administrators with a comprehensive view of the history and current status of the enterprise as a whole and of each ESAS enabled endpoint. The utilization of the security assessments enables an administrator to compactly and efficiently configure response policies to incidents that are detected across the entire enterprise. The security assessments function as natural anchors or starting points to define enterprise wide security response policies. A streamlined and consistent management interface is thus enabled to define the desired responses for each type of security assessment across the entire enterprise.

The ESAS arrangement provides a number of advantages. By employing a security assessment having a concise vocabulary overall data complexity in the enterprise is drastically reduced and only meaningful information is shared between security endpoints. Use of the security assessment also eliminates the need to collect large amounts of raw data in a central storage location and thereby enables highly scalable enterprise security solutions to be built on a very cost effective basis. In addition a new security endpoint may be readily deployed with on demand extensibility. Security assessments may be shared between the new security endpoint and existing security endpoints without the need to reconfigure any of the response policies within existing security endpoints. The new security endpoint simply functions as a new source of security assessments using a semantic abstraction that the existing security endpoints already understand. The utilization of security assessments also enables enterprise wide security policies to be established using a very compact and clear methodology without needing to understand all of the possible security events that every security endpoint may generate in the enterprise and then try to describe the responsive action for each event.

Turning now to an illustrative ESAS arrangement deployed in the enterprise network is shown in which a security assessment channel is provided to enable a security assessment to be shared among multiple security endpoints using a language protocol that is commonly utilized at each security endpoint. The security assessment channel facilitates a publish subscribe model used by the security endpoints for connecting the sources of security assessments publishers to the consumers of the security assessments subscribers . As shown both the publishers and subscribers on the security assessment channel are security endpoints .

The security endpoints are isolated from the mechanics of the actual transport and management of the publish subscribe model through a semantic abstraction layer that is arranged to simplify interactions with the security assessment channel . The abstraction layer comprises tables describing the security assessment types to which the security endpoints subscribe and tables describing the security assessment types that security endpoints publish as described below not all security endpoints generally subscribe to all security assessment types . In addition the abstraction layer provides an API application programming interface for reading received security assessments and an API for generating security assessments.

A specialized security endpoint ESAS central server is coupled to the security assessment channel and performs as a centralized audit point for the ESAS arrangement . Accordingly the ESAS central server subscribes to all security assessments and permanently logs them. ESAS central server also receives and logs messages from the security endpoints that indicate the local actions that are taken by a security endpoint. The ESAS central server thus provides administrators with security assessment monitoring functionality that gives a comprehensive view of the history and current status of the enterprise as a whole as well as each ESAS enabled endpoint.

Third the subscribing security endpoints and the ESAS central server which receive the security assessment apply their specific security expertise through the application of their own correlation rules and locally available data to trigger an appropriate action. As collectively indicated by reference numeral in the host security endpoint performs an on demand scan. The NAP endpoint revokes the IP security certificate for the identified compromised client and implements a port shutdown. The line of business security endpoint temporarily suspends instant messaging IM traffic to the compromised client based on the received security assessment. The ESAS central server raises an alert for a security analyst e.g. an administrator and also logs all of the security assessments and actions invoked.

The first illustrative scenario described above provides a case where the security endpoint detecting the suspicious incident generates a security assessment with high severity and high fidelity i.e. the security endpoint has a high degree of confidence that it has validly detected a serious incident . By comparison is a diagram of a second illustrative scenario in which a low fidelity security assessment is sent over the security assessment channel that triggers the generation of a high fidelity assessment by a receiving security endpoint which also performs cross object mapping.

This second illustrative scenario is also described in three stages. As indicated by reference numeral the edge firewall first detects a large number of client connections to a perimeter of the enterprise network . However unlike the first illustrative scenario shown in and described in the accompanying text the number of connections being established by the client is not so high that the edge firewall can be absolutely certain that the client has been compromised. In current enterprise security systems when a security endpoint sees such data it generally just drops the data and takes no action as there is not enough evidence to warrant the typically harsh response such as disconnecting the machine. By comparison in the present scenario the edge firewall in the second stage sends a security assessment over the security assessment channel that indicates that the particular client is compromised with medium severity and low fidelity as indicated by reference numeral .

Here the subscribing security endpoints to the particular object referenced in the security assessment generated by the edge firewall include the host security endpoint and the ESAS central server . While such a low fidelity data normally does not trigger an action to be taken at a security endpoint in current security products in accordance with the present enterprise security assessment sharing the host security endpoint looks at its own local data differently in light of the received security assessment from the edge firewall . In this case the local data resulting from an on demand scan at the host security endpoint and the information contained in the security assessment from the edge firewall are used to generate new assessments and . Thus the host security endpoint has information that by itself does not warrant the generation of a new security assessment but when reinforced with even a low fidelity assessment from another security endpoint as in this case there is sufficient evidence to justify the creation of the new security assessments and which each have high fidelity.

The host security endpoint places the new security assessments and onto the security assessment channel . The new security assessments and are received over the security assessment channel by the subscribing security endpoints which in this illustrative scenario include the edge firewall and the ESAS central server for security assessment and line of business endpoint for security assessment .

Note that the line of business endpoint was not a subscriber to the original security assessment produced by the edge firewall because the reference object type is a machine and the line of business endpoint by virtue of its role in protecting e mail is typically concerned with the users. However in this second illustrative scenario the host security endpoint maps from a host object type to a user object type when it generates a new security assessment . Such cross object mapping capability may be beneficial in many scenarios as it is contemplated that a high severity incident such as malware or malicious activity that potentially compromises the data confidentiality or integrity of a host computer may also potentially compromise the user as well. A security assessment may be generated that cross maps the high severity incident from the host object type to a user object type with a certain degree of fidelity. Similarly for a critical severity incident in which malware or malicious activity has actually caused a loss of data integrity on a host computer a security assessment for a user object type may be generated with even higher fidelity.

In stage three the new security assessments and trigger a variety of respective actions at the receiving security endpoints as collectively indicated by reference numeral . Specifically the edge firewall blocks all access by the compromised client with the exception of software updates and or mission critical access. The line of business endpoint temporarily suspends outgoing e mails. And as with the first illustrative scenario the ESAS central server continues to log all assessments and actions. As noted above such restrictions are enforced only during the period of time for which the TTL associated with the new security assessments and remains valid. When the new security assessments expire the actions taken by the respective security endpoints are rolled back unless the TTL is extended or a new security assessment which invokes the restrictive actions is received.

The host security endpoint reviews the received security assessment and applies its specific security expertise using correlation rules and any relevant locally available data. In this illustrative example the host security endpoint responsively generates a new security assessment containing a user object type to which the line of business security endpoint subscribes.

In the third stage of the scenario the remediation techniques employed by the security endpoints are considered expensive in terms of their potential impact on business operations within the enterprise network . For example as indicated by reference numeral the line of business security endpoint implements a response policy that entails temporarily suspending outgoing e mail. In addition the host security endpoint performs an on demand scan and if no results are achieved performs a deep scan. While such remediation techniques can be very effective in addressing malware malicious users and other problems they typically impart significant expense to the enterprise. For example a user whose outgoing e mail is suspended will be less productive and deep scanning typically requires one or more reboots which will remove the machine from service for a period of time.

The ESAS arrangement advantageously enables these effective albeit expensive remediation techniques to be applied in a targeted manner and not merely in a general way or across the board which can be unjustified for some machines and or users. Only objects in the environment that are deemed suspicious using pre defined criteria will be subject to these particular remediation techniques.

As shown in security software running on the mobile information appliance detects a security incident such as a website that appears to be a phishing site. It can then publish a security assessment through the extended ESAS security assessment channel indicated by reference numeral which is received by subscribing security endpoints in the enterprise network . The chipset in the mobile information appliance may be configured to send and receive security assessments over a defined channel. For example the channel may comprise a link or use a defined IP address and may further be handled with a particular QoS to guarantee communication of security assessments even in cases where the Internet is congested.

As shown in the extended ESAS security assessment channel supports the receipt at the devices of security assessments that are published by the security endpoints in the enterprise network . As shown a security assessment published by the edge firewall is received by the PC and the mobile information appliance . The receipt of the security assessment may trigger local responses by the client devices in a manner that is similar to that described above in the text accompanying .

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

