---

title: Relating web page change with revisitation patterns
abstract: Web page change may be related to revisitation patterns to support web interaction. In an example embodiment, a method involves analyzing change and revisitation data for a web page, determining a relationship between the data, inferring consumption intent by a user for the web page, and utilizing the inferred consumption intent. More specifically, change data is analyzed to produce a change characterization, with the change data reflecting differences between content of a web page at different times. Revisitation data is analyzed to produce a revisitation characterization, with the revisitation data including visit times to the web page by a user. A relationship is determined between the change and the revisitation data based on the change and the revisitation characterizations. Consumption intent of the user for the content of the web page is inferred responsive to the relationship. The inferred consumption intent is utilized to support interaction with the web page.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08078974&OS=08078974&RS=08078974
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08078974
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080627
---
The internet offers a wealth of information that is typically divided into web pages. A web page is a unit of information that is accessible via the internet. Each web page may be available in any one or more of a number of different formats. Example formats include HyperText Markup Language HTML Portable Document Format PDF and so forth. Each web page may include or otherwise provide access to other types of information in addition to text such as audio video or interactive content.

Web pages include information covering news hobbies philosophy technical matters entertainment travel world cultures and many other topics. The extent of the information available via the internet provides an opportunity to access many different topics. In fact the number of web pages and the amount of information that are available over the internet is increasing daily. Much of this information is also updated or otherwise modified on a frequent basis. Unfortunately the size scope and constant alterations of the content offered by the internet can make it difficult to access desired information from among the many multitudes of web pages.

Web page change may be related to revisitation patterns to support web interaction by a user. In an example embodiment a method involves analyzing change data and revisitation data for a web page determining a relationship between the change and revisitation data inferring consumption intent by a user for the web page responsive to the relationship and utilizing the inferred consumption intent.

In another example embodiment change data is analyzed to produce a change characterization with the change data reflecting differences between content of a web page at different times. Revisitation data is analyzed to produce a revisitation characterization with the revisitation data including visit times for visits to the web page by a user. A relationship is determined between the change data and the revisitation data based on the change characterization and the revisitation characterization. Consumption intent of the user for the content of the web page is inferred responsive to the relationship between the change data and the revisitation data. The inferred consumption intent is then utilized to support interaction with the web page.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. Moreover other systems methods devices media apparatuses arrangements and other example embodiments are described herein.

As explained above the size scope and constant alterations of the content offered by the internet can make it difficult to access desired information from among the many multitudes of web pages. The internet is indeed a dynamic ever changing collection of information. There is however a relationship between changes to web page content and people s revisitation to those web pages. Changes to web page content may be compared and otherwise related to revisitation patterns to better understand the relationship between the content changes and the revisitation patterns. For example investigation has revealed that web pages that are visited frequently or that are revisited after short time intervals are likely to change more quickly than other web pages. Moreover relationships between web page changes and web page revisitation patterns may be used to infer how a user intends to consume the content of a web page. This inferred user consumption intent may be utilized to support interaction with the web page by web browsers search engines web crawlers and so forth.

Revisiting web pages is common but people s reasons for revisiting can be diverse. For example a person may return to a conference website to be reminded of the conference location or to catch up on the latest news. Changes to the content of a web page can when related to revisitation patterns give clues to the user s intent e.g. interests information goals etc. when returning. For example a person who returns at a frequency similar to the frequency with which the conference website is updated may be interested in catching up with the latest news while a person who returns after a longer interval may be more likely to be interested in revisiting the web page s static content. In the context of web page visits and consumption intent a user may be a person an application an application that is fully or partially under the control of a person some combination thereof and so forth.

Although content changes to web sites can be beneficial to a user looking for new information such changes can also interfere with the re finding of previously viewed content. If a system can understand what content a user is interested in when revisiting a web page such a system can attempt to satisfy those interests. For example the system can highlight changed content when the change is considered interesting to the user can actively monitor content changes of particular interest to the user can provide cached information when changes might interfere with re finding old information and so forth. In the description herein below example approaches to relating the resonance or associations between web page content change and web page revisitation patterns are addressed. Example embodiments for using these relationships are also described.

Investigation of web page change and revisitation patterns has revealed a number of trends. For example investigations indicate that people are more likely to be interested in finding or monitoring new information in pages that change relatively rapidly but they are more likely to be interested in re finding previously viewed information in pages that change relatively less frequently. Recognition and application of such trends can enable web interaction to be supported. Seven examples are briefly described below.

First one application of the relationship between revisitation and change is the use of revisitation frequencies to identify portion s of a web page that are likely to be of interest to a user. For instance there may be a web page portion where revisitation resonates with changes to the portion. It should be understood that the term resonate as used herein is not limited to a strict mathematical interpretation for it also embraces similarities in rate or frequency correlations and so forth. Second rapidly changing content may be extracted for mobile browser users who might want ready access to the news page while static information is excluded to save bandwidth and screen real estate. For instance by recognizing the revisitation patterns of a user a mobile browser can filter content to display dynamic content that has changed instead of rendering the stable content which can be helpful due to a mobile device s likely smaller display screen. Third when a search engine or other application is to extract a snippet or web page summary to present it to a user the extraction can be made more relevant by knowing the user s likely information goal as defined by their revisitation patterns. For instance for a user searching for a website in which it is believed that the primary interest is in static content that static content can be returned as the result snippet e.g. over an equally likely snippet selected from dynamic content. 

Fourth a monitoring system can be aware of which changes a user is interested in and actively notify the user of changes without necessitating a revisit to a web page. Fifth internet system designers can make use of the information side effect of revisitation habits of many users in order to optimize their systems. Sixth web crawlers can utilize the relationship between change and revisitation to adaptively retrieve content at a rate that is not likely to miss important changes to web pages but likewise does not overwhelm websites. Seventh a search engine can match the frequency of occurrence of a query with appropriately changing web pages. For instance for queries whose frequency is constant over time a preference may be given to static pages. These and other example embodiments for supporting web interaction are described further herein.

Generally relating web page change with revisitation patterns can be used to support web interaction. As is described herein below for certain example embodiments change data can be analyzed to produce change characterizations. Revisitation data can be analyzed to produce change characterizations. One or more relationships may be determined between the change data and the revisitation data based on the change characterizations and the revisitation characterizations. User consumption intent may be inferred responsive to the determined relationship. Interaction with the web may then be supported utilizing the inferred consumption intent.

An environment and general concepts for example embodiments of relating web page change with revisitation patterns are described in this Introduction Section 1 with reference to . General methods and schemes are described in Section 2 with reference to . The description of in Section 3 is directed to change curves which are an example of change characterizations. The description of in Section 4 is directed to revisitation curves which are an example of revisitation characterizations. Example embodiments for determining relationships and inferring consumption intents are described in Section 5 with reference to . Aspects of inferring consumption intents and utilizing them to support web interaction are described for example implementations in Section 6 with reference to .

In an example embodiment web page has content at time t. Web page has content at time t. Web page has content at time t. Content may be different at any given time as compared to the content at a different time. These differences in content for web page are denoted generally as and represented by web page change . These differences may be monitored tracked reported and so forth. Web page change or change pattern may pertain to content at any number of different times and or to any number of web pages . Moreover web page change e.g. of content may pertain to any portion of the web page content up to and including all of the content. Example web page portions include but are not limited to navigational information a pane a section a paragraph an advertisement a block a word tags other metadata combinations thereof and so forth.

Over some period of time user may repeatedly visit web page . Generally user employs web software to visit web page . User may be a person an application including web software a combination of both and so forth. As specifically shown web software is used to visit web page to access content at time t. Web software is used to visit web page to access content at time t. Second and subsequent visits may be considered revisits as indicated in environment A. These visits and are denoted generally as and represented by revisitation pattern . Revisitation patterns may pertain to any number of visits and or to any number of web pages .

As described further herein web software may support web interaction e.g. by user with web page by relating web page change with revisitation pattern . Generally web software facilitates access by user to at least one web page . Thus web software may directly or indirectly enable user to access a web page . Examples of web software that directly facilitate access to web pages are traditional web browsers news readers web servers sites and so forth. Examples of web software that indirectly facilitate access to web pages are web search engines web crawlers and so forth.

However web software may be of a different type including some combination of those explicitly identified herein. Furthermore two or more different types of web software may be employed during a single web page access e.g. a web browser retrieving content of web page via a web site . It should also be noted that a web crawler may be included as part of a search engine. Web software may realized as software firmware hardware fixed logic circuitry some combination thereof and so forth.

In an example embodiment change data and revisitation data are collected by web software or an affiliated entity. Generally with reference also to change data reflects one or more differences between content of a web page at different times t t. Revisitation data includes one or more visit times for visits by at least one user to the web page . Change data for a given web page may be directed to change patterns of the entirety of the web page portions of the web page or both. Revisitation data for a given web page may reflect revisitation patterns for one user multiple users or both. Change data and revisitation data are described further herein below with particular reference to .

In an example operation of approach B change data and revisitation data are input to web page change and revisitation relater . Web page change and revisitation relater determines at least one relationship between change data and revisitation data and outputs inferred consumption intent in response to the relationship. Inferred consumption intent represents a likely intent of one or more users e.g. one or more persons applications etc. with regard to how content of web page is expected and or desired to be consumed. Inferred consumption intent may be by way of example but not limitation an intent to consume dynamic content or an intent to consume static content of a web page. If dynamic content is intended inferred consumption intent may further be for instance an intent to consume new content old content monitored changes to the content and so forth. Inferred consumption intent is input to consumption intent utilizer which utilizes the inferred consumption intent to support interaction by user with web page .

The acts of the various flow diagrams that are described herein may be performed in many different environments and with a variety of different devices such as by one or more processing devices of . The orders in which the methods are described are not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described blocks can be combined augmented rearranged and or omitted to implement a respective method or an alternative method that is equivalent thereto. Although specific elements of certain other FIGS. are referenced in the description of the flow diagrams the methods may be performed with alternative elements.

An implementation of web page change and revisitation relater of may include for example change data analyzer revisitation data analyzer change and revisitation relationship determiner and consumption intent inference engine . A given implementation for web software of may include any of the components illustrated in . Flow diagram A of and scheme B of are jointly described below.

In an example embodiment at block change data for a web page is analyzed to produce at least one change characterization. The change data may reflect one or more differences between content of a web page at different times. For example change data for a web page is input to change data analyzer . Change data analyzer performs an analysis to produce at least one change characterization . Change data reflects one or more differences between content of web page at different times t t t . . . . The description of in Section 3 is directed to change curves which are an example of change characterizations .

At block revisitation data for the web page is analyzed to produce at least one revisitation characterization. The revisitation data may include one or more visit times for visits by at least one user to the web page. For example revisitation data for web page is input to revisitation data analyzer . Revisitation data analyzer performs an analysis to produce at least one revisitation characterization . Revisitation data includes one or more visit times t t . . . for visits by user to web page . The description of in Section 4 is directed to revisitation curves which are an example of revisitation characterizations .

At block a relationship between the change data and the revisitation data is determined based on the change characterization and the revisitation characterization. For example change characterization and revisitation characterization are input to change and revisitation relationship determiner . Change and revisitation relationship determiner performs a relation determination based on change characterization and revisitation characterization to determine change and revisitation relationship . Change and revisitation relationship represents one or more relationships each of which may incorporate any number of factors between change data and revisitation data . For an example quantitative embodiment a determined change and revisitation relationship may correspond to a determined correlation between change characterization and revisitation characterization .

At block a consumption intent of at least one user is inferred for the web page responsive to the relationship between the change data and the revisitation data. For example change and revisitation relationship is input to consumption intent inference engine . Responsive to change and revisitation relationship consumption intent inference engine outputs inferred consumption intent . Generally inference of a consumption intent may be based at least in part on whether or not a change characterization and a revisitation characterization comport with at least one predetermined criterion e.g. in the context of a change and revisitation relationship . Example embodiments for determining relationships and inferring consumption intents are described below in Section 5 with particular reference to .

At block the inferred consumption intent is utilized to support interaction with the web page. For example inferred consumption intent is provided to consumption intent utilizer . Consumption intent utilizer effectuates one or more utilizations of inferred consumption intent to support interaction with web page . Aspects of inferring consumption intents and utilizing them to support web interaction are described for example embodiments in Section 6 below with particular reference to . An inferred consumption intent may be targeted for a local level e.g. to an individual or for a global level e.g. to an aggregated group . For example if revisitation data and thus revisitation characterization covers a group of users change and revisitation relationship and thus inferred consumption intent may be relevant to the group. Web pages may also be grouped for change data purposes.

As illustrated change data includes web page content t t t . . . that originates or is collected from one or more of change data sources C. Revisitation data includes data directed toward user identification ID page identification and visitation times . Revisitation data originate or are collected from one or more of revisitation data sources R.

As illustrated change characterizations include aggregate change statistics and or change curves . Each change curve may be at least partially represented by its corresponding knot point s . Revisitation characterizations include aggregate revisitation statistics and or revisitation curves . Each revisitation curve may be at least partially represented by its corresponding group category . Thus there are change characterizations and revisitation characterizations generally. An example of each type of characterization is a curve. For change curves individual ones may be represented by a knot point . For revisitation curves individual ones may be represented by a maximum revisitation frequency. For change curves groups of them may be represented by change group type e.g. knotted flat sloped etc. . For revisitation curves groups of them may be represented by group category .

In an example embodiment with respect to change data web page content may comprise up to the full content of web page for each time index at which the content is monitored. Alternatively web page content may comprise content of web page for each time at which the content is monitored by retaining the differences between different versions. Other mechanisms for collecting web page content may also be employed.

With respect to revisitation data each user identification identifies a user of or at least a machine being used by one or more users . As noted above a user may be a person an application a combination thereof and so forth. It may be linked to other identifying information or may be anonymized. Each page identification identifies a web page it may be for instance a Uniform Resource Locator URL . Visit time s are a set of timestamps indicating when a corresponding user has visited a corresponding web page. There may be one or more than one time included in visit times . Not only are repeated visits relevant for a revisitation analysis but the absence of a second visit my also be relevant.

Change data sources C and revisitation data sources R may be similar or even the same sources. Example data sources include web browsers or browser histories web sites or their server logs search engines or their indexes web crawlers or their databases web proxies or their logs browser plug ins e.g. tool bars anti phishing filters surveys some combination thereof and so forth. For example a tool bar installed in a web browser may know and or report a user identification page identifications and corresponding visitation times of a user. Also a web site may expose information regarding its own content changes and or visits by users. A web crawler may collect web page content during its crawls.

Thus a browsing history may be acquired from a web browser of one user or multiple users. Server logs may be for example the log or logs of a web server a proxy server and so forth. A tool bar may be a stand alone application tool or part of another application such as a web browser e.g. implemented as a browser plug in . The tool bar acquires data on browsing visits and may forward them to a server for incorporation into a multi user server log. Surveys are typically implemented at least partially manually however responses to surveys can provide insight into the actual intent of a user when revisiting a web page. Change data and or revisitation data may alternatively be drawn from other data sources .

For change characterizations aggregate change statistics may include by way of example an amount of change a rate of change or average frequency of change some other summary metric some combination thereof and so forth. Rate of change may represent for example the average time between content changes. Content change may refer to any detectable change to a predefined amount of change and so forth.

Amount of change may be measured using any of many standard or specialized mechanisms. Example mechanisms include changes in bag of word frequencies differences between blocks of text combinations thereof and so forth. One example mechanism involves measuring changes in web page textual content using Dice Jaccard cosine probabilistic etc. measures of the similarity between pages. The Dice Jaccard cosine or probabilistic measures may be calculated with the web page textual content represented as a bag of words e.g. with HTML tags filtered or with alternative feature representations. These mechanisms essentially measure the size normalized overlap between two vectors which in this case represent the words of the web page content.

For certain example embodiments each change curve reflects the change pattern of content of a web page over time in graphical or other mathematical form as produced from change data . Change curve graphs elapsed time versus an amount of change to the content of the web page. With regular crawls the frequency and amount of change for each web page of interest may be tracked. Each knot point indicates a time when the amount of change to the content of a web page approximately ceases. Change curves and knot points are described further herein below with particular reference to .

For revisitation characterizations aggregate revisitation statistics may include by way of example any of the following statistics with regard to a given web page a total number of revisiting users a rate of revisitation or average frequency of visits an average inter visit time some other summary metric a combination thereof and so forth. The average revisitation frequency represents how many visits on average each user makes to a given web page over a predetermined interval. Average inter visit time represents the average time between any two consecutive visits by each user to a given web page. Other summary metrics for change and or revisitation represent any one or more of multiple standard statistical metrics for summarizing data such as the mean the median the maximum and or minimum a Fourier transform and so forth. The data of aggregate revisitation statistics are aggregated over time for individuals to produce individualized local aggregate revisitation statistics and or are aggregated over time across multiple users to produce global group aggregate revisitation statistics that are averaged over the multiple users.

For certain example embodiments each revisitation curve reflects the revisitation pattern of a given web page in a graphical or other mathematical form that is derived from a timestamp series of interactions with the given web page to represent how users revisit the web page. The revisitation curve can be representative of how one user revisits a given web page or how multiple users on average revisit the given web page. For comparison purposes a revisitation curve may be normalized. In an example implementation revisitation curves may be organized by group category or by other curve characteristics e.g. one or more peaks . Implementations relating to revisitation curves and revisitation curve group categories are described further herein below with particular reference to .

Although the similarity between the content of two successive versions of a web page may be very high over a relatively short interval e.g. about an hour the similarity between one fixed version of the page and subsequent versions can decrease substantially over time. In other words the average amount of change over time for a given web page tends to increase even though each successive incremental change may be relatively small. To quantify the change over time of web page content a change curve as is described herein may be used. For example embodiments a change curve represents the amount of textual change e.g. as calculated by Dice Jaccard cosine or probabilistic measures from a fixed point in a web page s history.

In an example embodiment at block web page content at a first time is compared to web page content at a second time. For example content of web page at time t may be compared to content of web page at time t. At block it is determined whether at least one change has been detected based on the comparison s . If there are no differences in the content the method of flow diagram A continues at block with another comparison at a new time index instant.

If on the other hand one or more changes in the content are detected at block then at block an amount of change between the web content at the two different times is measured. For example the amount of similarity between the content of two different versions of a web page may be measured e.g. using Dice Jaccard cosine or probabilistic measures . It should be understood that the acts of comparing and detecting may be performed as part of and or as being based on the act s of measuring. For instance if a non zero amount of change is measured at block it may be considered both a comparison of web page content and a detection of change to the web page content.

The amount of change and the corresponding time indexes for each measurement may be recorded for subsequent use. At block the comparisons detections and measurements of blocks are repeated at multiple time instants. For example if a change curve is to be constructed content of web page at time t may be compared to content of web page at time t so that the amount of change with respect to an initial time may be measured with the initial time being t in this example .

After a sufficient amount of data has been ascertained a change curve is constructed at block . An example change curve is described below with particular reference to . To construct a change curve at block elapsed time is plotted versus an amount of change to web page content using the data measured at block . An inflection point that is termed a knot point may also be determined at block

For an example embodiment change curve is graphed with time versus an amount of change to the content of a web page. More specifically change curve plots measured similarity at different elapsed times. These elapsed times and content differences are relative to one or more time instants that are given to be the initial web page version or versions at or near time 0 hours. As shown change curve initially descends at a relatively steep angle as the content of the corresponding web page changes rapidly. Eventually the amount of change levels off and change curve becomes relatively flat once there are few additional incremental differences between a given content version and the previous content version relative to the initial version s .

Investigation reveals that the L or hockey stick shape is common for change curves . This shape includes at least one inflection point which is termed a knot point . Knot point indicates a time when the amount of change to the content of the web page approximately ceases with respect to the reference content. Generally knot points can be determined e.g. located using a scheme that involves applying a series of piecewise linear models.

More specifically an example quantitative approach for constructing change curves and determining their knot points is described below. However it should be understood that alternative approaches may be employed instead. For each web page up to n starting initial points such as 5 are selected at random e.g. biased toward the first week or so of samples . Dis defined to represent the web page content at time t and Dis defined to be the content at the first randomly selected time. Content is the web page stripped of markup. The value of the change curve at each time instant t is calculated as the average Dice coefficient from each of the randomly selected initial starting points to the web page content t time steps in the future. This change curve value at time t is given by the following equation 

Change curves provide a visual synopsis representing a web page s evolution over time. Investigation indicates that the general form of change curves is that of the letter L or a hockey stick as shown in . It is apparent that many web pages change relatively rapidly from a given initial starting point as content shifts off the web page or is otherwise changed during the first few hours. For example in a blog homepage specific posts move off the page at a certain rate as new posts are made thus causing a rapid falloff in Dice similarity. At the inflection point e.g. the location at which the change curve flattens the similarity of the initial web page s to each of the subsequent versions is approximately equal. This does not mean that each of the versions of the web page after this inflection point is the same but rather it means that their respective similarities relative to the initial starting point are approximately equal to each other. Thus the knot point is located at a time instant when the amount of change to the content of the web page approximately ceases with respect to the reference content from one or more web pages. Although an example change curve shape that is described herein is the hockey stick change curves may take other shapes. Moreover shapes for change curves may be fit to change data in manners that differ from those that are described herein.

In the blog example each of the posts that were present at the initial sample has usually moved off the web page and what remains is text that typically resides on the page. Stated more generally the textual content past the inflection point that is similar to the original version may be considered a combination of template information and a rough representation of the underlying language model of the page.

To compare different web pages to each other to group similar pages and or to determine the relationship between revisitation behavior and content change the information included in change curves may be extracted in one or more ways. Because change curves are generally hockey stick shaped this extraction may be accomplished by identifying a change curve s inflection point or knot point and by fitting two linear regressions to the curve one up to the knot and the other following it. Piecewise linear regression is a well known problem that can be handled either by knowing the knot location a priori or determining it through a grid search with a well defined objective function. To find knot points relatively efficiently a heuristic scheme that works well in practice can be employed.

In an example implementation of the heuristic scheme an algorithm first fits one linear segment to the full change curve. The leftmost intersection of the fitted curve to the change curve becomes the initial guess for the knot location. A segment is then fit to the portion of the change curve occurring before the knot. The knot point is incremented as long as the mean squared error of the estimate of the first segment does not increase. To keep the knot from drifting too far its motion may be restricted a predetermined number of hours e.g. 24 hours to the right. Because investigations indicate that the knot point typically appears before the final 200 hours of about five weeks of monitoring of each sampled web page the post knot portion of the curve may be represented by fitting a linear regression to the last 200 hours of the change curve. The final knot point is calculated as the intersection of the two regressions.

It should be noted that in certain situations no knot point appears within the sampled time period. In these cases the change curve generally appears to be constantly decaying or flat from the initial starting time until the last sampled point and is therefore capable of being approximated with one segment. The algorithm described above generally either determines the knot point to be at 0 or it fits two nearly equal sloped curves. In such cases the single linear function can be used to describe the curve and its knot point is undefined.

Although many if not most change curves adhere to the hockey stick shape two other shapes also appear with some frequency. Using the analysis above there are at least three types of change curves knotted two piecewise linear the hockey stick shape flat one unchanging 0 slope line and sloped one linear regression with no obvious knot . The combination of knot point and characteristic regression information e.g. slopes and intercepts may provide a representation of the change data in terms of a change curve. These values may also be used to classify change curves into the three identified categories. Change analyses as described above can be applied to entire web pages and or to portion s of web pages. Different web page portions may be identified using any number of page analysis algorithms.

Revisitation data may be analyzed to produce a revisitation curve. Generally a revisitation curve represents the inter visit times e.g. revisit periods to a web page by at least one user to reflect the revisitation pattern. More specifically a revisitation curve may be a normalized histogram of inter visit times for one or multiple users that are visiting and revisiting a specific web page to characterize the page s revisitation pattern.

Inter visit times represent the revisit period between two e.g. consecutive visitation times . An average of the inter visit times for one or a number of users may be employed as an average inter visit time. With X representing one time unit the seven illustrated inter visit times are from left to right 2X 2X 4X X X X and 3X. In revisits graph there are therefore three inter visit times of X duration two inter visit times of 2X duration and one inter visit time of both the 3X and 4X durations. The inter visit times may be for a single user or for a group of users. Consequently the resulting revisitation characterization e.g. including a revisitation curve can be produced in the aggregate e.g. pertaining to multiple users or be produced on an individual basis e.g. pertaining to one user . Aggregated revisitation characterizations may be beneficial because such information can be used to support a particular user s experience even for web pages that the particular user has never before visited. Individual revisitation characterizations on the other hand may be beneficial because when there is sufficient information about the individual s revisitation pattern the individual s experience can be tailored specifically to his or her own revisitation pattern.

The lower graph is a histogram that represents inter visit times along the abscissa axis and counts along the ordinate axis. The inter visit times of revisits graph are plotted on histogram graph as inter visit time plots . Hence from revisits graph there are three counts at the 1X inter visit mark two counts at the 2X inter visit mark one count at the 3X inter visit mark and one count at the 4X inter visit mark. The four inter visit time plots on histogram graph define a curve revisitation curve .

The specific density of visits determines the shape of the revisitation curve . For example the web page corresponding to the first graph pair a has four visits in rapid succession and none at longer intervals. Hence the revisitation curve for graph pair a shows a high number of revisitations in the smallest interval bin. In contrast visits in the second graph pair b are spread out which shifts the peak of the revisitation curve to the right corresponding to a higher inter arrival time bin . The third graph pair c includes two fast repeat visits and one long inter visit time. The fourth graph pair d includes inter visit times of varying lengths.

In short graph pair a has rapid repeat visits graph pair b has slower repeat visits graph pair c has a mix of fast and slow repeat visits and graph pair d has variable times between repeat visits. It should be noted that the number of visits in each graph pair is the same. Thus the same number of visits per user can result in very different revisitation curves .

By way of specific example revisitation curves may be generated first by calculating the inter arrival times between consecutive pairs of visits. Exponential bins may be used to characterize the inter arrival times. Manual tuning of the bin boundaries may be employed to generate more descriptive timescales. Comprehendible boundaries may be for example one minute five minutes ten minutes half an hour one hour two hours eight hours one day two days one week two weeks and a month. It should be noted that even if a histogram graph is not literally constructed binning inter visit times can facilitate further analysis when producing a revisitation characterization.

Because histograms are count based web pages that have many more visitors and or more revisits per visitor will have higher counts. In order to compare revisitation patterns between such web pages their revisitation curves may be normalized. By way of example each individual curve may be normalized by the centroid e.g. the average of each of the curves. To complete the normalization for each web page the un normalized bins in each revisitation curve are divided by the corresponding count in the centroid. Thus for each bin i the normalized revisitation curve may be computed using the following equation normalized revisit curve count centroid 

From a high level perspective the normalized revisitation curve for each web page roughly represents the percentage over or under revisits to that web page as compared to the average revisitation pattern. Although normalization is achieved with the equation above by dividing out the centroid there are a number of other ways to normalize this type of data that may be implemented. Alternative examples include normalizing to a 0 1 range subtracting out the centroid and so forth. As described further below however normalizing by finding a quotient with the centroid enables both comparisons and groupings of the different revisitation behavior patterns. It should be noted that data may be cleaned in other ways instead of or in addition to normalizing. Example data cleansing approaches include but are not limited to normalizing the data removing spurious and or noisy data extrapolating interpolating the data averaging the data combinations thereof and so forth.

In an example embodiment at block one or more user visit times for a web page are acquired. For example visit times corresponding to a user identification and a page identification may be acquired. At block inter visit times are ascertained from the user visit times. For example inter visit times may be ascertained from user visit times .

At block inter visit times are assigned to bins of a histogram. For example inter visit times may be assigned to bins of a histogram graph . At block counts of inter visit times are plotted to the histogram graph based on the assigned bins. For example the counts per inter visit time may be plotted as inter visit time plots on histogram graph .

At block it is determined if there is revisitation data for another user. For example it may be determined if there is additional revisitation data for a different user identification that corresponds to the same page identification . If so the method of flow diagram C continues at block and the count value of relevant inter visit time plots may be increased as appropriate for the revisitation data of additional users. Alternatively the plotting of block may be performed after a negative determination at block . 

If on the other hand it is determined at block that there is no additional revisitation data for analysis then flow diagram C continues at block . At block a revisitation curve for the web page is built responsive to the plotted counts. For example a revisitation curve may be built from the inter visit time plots . Additionally at block the revisitation curve may be normalized for standardized comparisons. For example revisitation curve may be normalized using e.g. a centroid for a number of revisitation curves to enable a standardized comparison between and among different revisitation curves corresponding to different web pages.

Examples of revisitation curves for two specific web pages are for a popular general interest internet retailer that offers an expansive number of product categories. This revisitation curve peaks towards the right which indicates that most revisits occur after a relatively longer time period e.g. over a day . for a well known news site that covers general national news. This revisitation curve displays a peak on the left which is perhaps driven by automatic reloads along with a higher middle region which is perhaps due to users checking for the latest news.

Each revisitation curve may be considered to be a signature of user behavior with respect to accessing a corresponding web page. Given a revisitation curve representation of user behavior the range of such curves may be investigated. To organize these curves a clustering algorithm may be applied to recognize curves that have similar shapes and or magnitudes. Specifically and by way of example a repeated bisection clustering with a cosine similarity metric and the ratio of intra to extra cluster similarity as the objective function may be used. Experimental investigation indicates that clusters are fairly stable regardless of the specific clustering or similarity metric. Thus alternative clustering approaches and or similarity metrics may be employed to investigate commonalities and differences between and among revisitation curves.

By varying the number of clusters and testing within and between cluster similarity it has been discovered that the objective function levels off at around 12 clusters. Although 12 clusters were discovered for approximately a month s worth of revisitation data longer data collection periods may result in raw visitation data that produces a different total number of clusters. These 12 clusters are graphically presented in Table 1 below and are designated by F F M M S S and H. As shown in Table 1 these 12 clusters have been further ordered named and manually grouped based on general trends into four groups fast medium slow and hybrid. These four revisitation curve group categories of are described at a relatively high level herein below with particular reference to .

Many revisitation patterns were located at the extremes. Five clusters F F represented primarily fast revisitation patterns in which people revisited the associated member web pages many times over a short interval but rarely revisited over longer intervals. On the other hand four clusters S S represented slow revisitation patterns with people revisiting the associated member pages mostly at intervals of a week or more. Between these two extremes are two other groups of clusters. One is a hybrid combination cluster H of fast and slow revisitations it displays a bimodal revisitation pattern. The other group includes two medium clusters M M having web pages that are revisited primarily at intervals of between an hour and a day. The clusters in this medium group are less peaked and show more variability in revisitation intervals than the fast or slow groups.

Table 1 below presents and describes four example revisitation curve group categories fast medium slow and hybrid. Each group category may be further subdivided into revisitation clusters. Twelve example revisitation clusters are shown F F F F F M M S S S S and H. A general example description of each grouped category is also presented.

As noted above a portion of the investigation and analysis into web page revisitation included the dissemination of surveys. The self reported survey based revisitation data reinforced the selection of this grouping criteria as revisitation patterns from the surveys were fairly consistent not only with each individual participant s observed page interactions but also with overall patterns in the aggregate log data. Participants tended to report hourly or daily visits to web pages that were clustered as fast or medium term revisitation. They tended to report weekly monthly or longer revisits to those web pages categorized as having slow revisitation patterns. The self reported regularity of access decreased as the visitation interval increased. Participants reported visiting medium web pages at regular intervals and slow web pages at irregular intervals.

Each of the revisitation curves in represents a general example curve for a group category. Individual revisitation curves may vary while still fitting within a given group category. A fast revisitation group category is reflected by fast revisitation curve F . It resembles a downward sloping ramp on the left and is relatively flat in the center and right portions. As indicated in Table 1 above a revisitation curve may differ from revisitation curve F and nevertheless be classifiable within the fast revisitation group category. For instance the left portion may resemble a peaked mountain e.g. clusters F and F having both upward and downward ramp shapes instead of merely a downward ramp shape.

A medium revisitation group category is reflected by medium revisitation curve M . It resembles a hill shape that is higher in the central portion and lower at the right and left portions. A slow revisitation group category is reflected by slow revisitation curve S . It resembles an upward sloping ramp on the right and is relatively flat in the left and center portions. A hybrid revisitation group category is reflected by hybrid revisitation curve H . It resembles a valley shape that is lower in the central portion and higher at the right and left portions.

In an example embodiment revisitation data is input to learning machine categorizer . After analysis in accordance with its learning algorithm learning machine categorizer outputs a label for revisitation curve group category that reflects the input revisitation data. Using the revisitation curve group categories of the label may be for example fast revisitation medium revisitation slow revisitation or hybrid revisitation. For training purposes revisitation cluster grouping information which may be derived from application of a clustering algorithm to revisitation data is applied to learning machine categorizer . By way of example learning machine categorizer may be powered by any learning algorithm such as a support vector machine SVM neural networks genetic algorithms K nearest neighbor algorithms decision trees a combination or kernelized version thereof and so forth.

With reference to the act s of block of analysis may include applying revisitation data from one or more users for a web page to a learning machine categorizer and producing a revisitation curve group category label that may constitute a revisitation characterization . The revisitation curve group category label may be for example fast revisitation medium revisitation slow revisitation or hybrid revisitation. This revisitation curve group category may be associated with the web page and then utilized to support web interaction.

When there is a resonance between the two patterns change pattern may be considered to be strongly related to revisitation pattern . As shown in relationship A is a strong relationship because the frequencies of change and revisitation match. In such a situation it can be inferred that users are interested in the dynamic content of web page . This is likely to be particularly true if the rate of revisitation is somewhat greater than the rate of change because this relationship indicates that users are interested in accessing content before it is removed from web page due to changes.

When there is not a resonance between the rates of change and revisitation change pattern may be considered to be weakly related to revisitation pattern . As shown in relationship B is a weak relationship because the frequencies of change and revisitation do not match e.g. the rate of change of change pattern is substantially greater than the rate of revisitation of revisitation pattern or vice versa . In the illustrated situation the rate of change is significantly greater than the rate of revisitation. It can thus be inferred that users are likely to be interested in the static content of web page because these relative rates indicate that users are not particularly concerned with ensuring that they are able to access changing content before it is altered or removed from web page

It should be understood that a distinction between static content and dynamic content of a web page is not necessarily a discrete one or one with universal boundaries. In other words analysis of the rate and or amount and or type of change of the content of a web page may involve a continuum that includes static content and dynamic content. For example some static content may also be considered slowly changing dynamic content. Thus different embodiments may define static and dynamic content differently. They may be defined by a developer or by a user. Moreover a cross over point or zone between static content and dynamic content may be specified by the developer by the user by a heuristic that adjustably defines static versus dynamic content in response to local or global activities during operation and so forth.

In an example embodiment at block a rate of change for a web page is produced. For example change data that is associated with a web page may be analyzed by change data analyzer to produce a rate of change which is an example of a change characterization . At block a rate of revisitation for the web page is produced. For example revisitation data corresponding to web page may be analyzed by revisitation data analyzer to produce a rate of revisitation which is an example of a revisitation characterization .

At block it is determined which of the rate of change or the rate of revisitation is greater. For example change and revisitation relationship determiner may compare the rate of a change pattern to a rate of a revisitation pattern to determine which is greater for change and revisitation relationship . Thus change and revisitation relationship may incorporate a comparison between the rate of change and the rate of revisitation

If the rate of change is determined to be greater then at block it is inferred that the intension is to consume static content of the web page. For example if the rate of change pattern exceeds the rate of revisitation pattern e.g. as illustrated in consumption intent inference engine may infer as inferred consumption intent that users intend to consume static content of web page .

On the other hand if the rate of revisitation is determined to be greater then at block it is inferred that the intension is to consume dynamic content of the web page. For example if the rate of revisitation pattern exceeds the rate of change pattern consumption intent inference engine may infer as inferred consumption intent that users intend to consume dynamic content of web page . It should be noted that if the rate of revisitation pattern substantially exceeds the rate of change pattern other inferences may be more applicable. For instance users may be quickly activating the back functionality of their web browser with hub and spoke browsing a web page may have activated automatic reloading and so forth.

If it is inferred that the user is interested in consuming dynamic content of the web page the type of dynamic content may also be inferred. Example types of dynamic content include but are not limited to previous i.e. old version s of the content the latest i.e. current version of the content monitored changes to the content some combination thereof and so forth. If a previous version of the content is intended to be consumed it may be further inferred whether the intended content has or has not been previously viewed. Example embodiments for inferring consumption intentions with regard to old content current content monitored changes to content etc. are described herein below with particular reference to .

In general relative terms change pattern has a fast rate of change change pattern has a slow rate of change and change pattern has a medium rate of change. For an example embodiment first web page portion is changed very frequently perhaps as often as each time the web page is loaded. First web page portion may be a banner advertisement a set of advertisements and so forth. Second web page portion is changed very infrequently. It may be a navigational portion of the web page or other baseline text that is usually changed relatively rarely such as during web site reorganizations.

Third web page portion may be digestible content such as news blog posts marketed goods social information and so forth. In this example revisitation pattern has a medium rate of revisitation. When revisitation pattern is related to change patterns and it may be determined that revisitation pattern matches change pattern . For example the rate of change for change pattern is approximately equal to the rate of revisitation for revisitation pattern . From this relationship it can be inferred that users likely revisit the web page to consume the content corresponding to web page portion .

In an example embodiment at block rates of change for multiple portions of a web page are produced. For example a change data analyzer may analyze change data associated with multiple web page portions to produce multiple respective rates of change for the corresponding change patterns . A document object model DOM of the web page for instance may be parsed at different times to identify and track the changes of different web page portions .

At block a rate of revisitation for the web page may be produced. For example a revisitation data analyzer may analyze revisitation data corresponding to the web page to produce a rate of revisitation representing revisitation pattern .

At block it is determined which rate of change associated with a respective web page portion matches the rate of revisitation corresponding to the web page. For example a change and revisitation relationship may be determined by change and revisitation relationship determiner by comparing respective rates of change for respective web page portions to the rate of revisitation. The determined relationship can indicate that the rate of change for change pattern which is associated with web page portion matches the rate of revisitation of revisitation pattern . A match may be declared for example to the rate of change that is closest to the rate of revisitation when the rate of revisitation is deemed sufficiently close to a rate of change some combination thereof and so forth.

At block it is inferred that a user intension is to consume content of the web page portion that is associated with the rate of change that matches the rate of revisitation. For example consumption intent inference engine may infer as inferred consumption intent that the intension of the user is to consume the content of web page portion responsive to the rate of change for change pattern matching the rate of revisitation of revisitation pattern .

In an example embodiment a relationship may be determined between revisitation data and change data based on change curve and fast revisitation curve F or based on change curve and medium revisitation curve M . The overall data included as part of change curve and revisitation curves may be related. However in this example the relationship is determined using knot point of change curve and peaks of revisitation curves .

Fast revisitation curve F corresponds to a first web page and medium revisitation curve M corresponds to a second web page. It is given that both web pages have the same change data as represented by change curve . First a relationship between change curve and fast revisitation curve F is described. The relation operation determines that peak F of fast revisitation curve F occurs before e.g. sooner than knot point of change curve . In other words the maximally frequent rate of revisitation is greater than the average rate of change with the average rate of change being defined by the knot point in this example. It may thus be inferred that users intend to consume the changing content of the first web page.

Second a relationship between change curve and medium revisitation curve M is described. The relation operation determines that peak M of medium revisitation curve M occurs after e.g. later than knot point of change curve . In other words the maximally frequent rate of revisitation is lower than the average rate of change with the average rate of change being defined by the knot point in this example. It may thus be inferred that users are not particularly interested in the changing content and may instead intend to consume the unchanging content of the second web page.

More generally change curves for web pages may be compared to revisitation curves for web pages. There are differences in where and when revisitation curves peak relative to the knot points of the change curves. It can be inferred that these difference relate to whether users are interested more in the dynamic changing content of a web page or in its static stable content. In other words there is a relationship between revisitation behavior e.g. as represented by revisitation curve peaks and the knot point of change curves. This relationship can indicate in which content users are primarily interested.

Investigation has revealed other general trends. For example there tends to be a negative relationship between the popularity of a web site e.g. as represented by the number of different visitors and inter change time. In other words the frequency of change increases with increasing popularity. In contrast there appears to be little if any relationship between elapsed time e.g. the value of the knot point on the x axis and number of visitors. Thus it can be inferred that although the rate of change is positively related to increased visitors the time at which page change stabilizes is not as critical. On the other hand there does appear to be a relationship between the Dice coefficient at the knot point e.g. the value of the knot point on the y axis and the number of visitors. There is a general downward trend of the knot point with increasing visitors indicating that there is less overlap for more frequent pages.

Similarly to the average inter change time as the number of revisits is increased the average knot point moves closer to 0. This likely indicates that users do not wish to miss changing information and therefore respond with increased revisits. How frequently a user revisits a web page also appears to be related to how often a web page is changed. In other words users are more likely to revisit a web page that changes rapidly than a web page that changes slowly or rarely. Furthermore rapid revisitation is more likely to be associated with change than slow revisitation. More specifically when people revisit a page quickly e.g. within the same day such revisitations tend to be particularly related to how frequently the page changes e.g. people revisit more as a web page changes more frequently . On the other hand when a page is revisited slowly e.g. after many weeks such revisitations tend to be less related to how frequently the page changes.

Different relationships between revisitation behavior and knot points of change curves may be further ascertained by employing a binning scheme to the revisits around the knot point. For an example implementation one to two bins both before and after the knot point are generated. Revisits are assigned to the bins. The levels of the bins may be normalized by the expected number of revisits. The normalized revisitation bins around the knot point can be used to infer user consumption intentions.

In an example embodiment change and revisitation relationship learning machine is capable of implementing the actions of blocks of flow diagram A of . Change and revisitation relationship learning machine may be implemented as web software . Hence change and revisitation relationship learning machine may realize change data analyzer revisitation data analyzer change and revisitation relationship determiner and or consumption intent inference engine each of .

Change and revisitation relationship learning machine may be trained in accordance with standard or specialized learning machine techniques. Training features receive as input change and revisitation features that have already been processed. These training features are web page change information C and revisitation pattern information R. By way of example change and revisitation relationship learning machine may be powered by any learning algorithm including by way of example but not limitation support vector machines SVMs non linear classification schemes including methods referred to as neural networks genetic algorithms K nearest neighbor algorithms regression models decision trees a combination or kernelized version thereof and so forth. Also change and revisitation relationship learning machine may be formed from or otherwise include separate learning machines that individually pertain to e.g. change and or revisitation such as a learning machine categorizer of .

The change data and revisitation data that are input may be raw data partially analyzed data fully analyzed data some combination thereof and so forth. Alternatively change and revisitation relationship learning machine may accept as input at least one change characterization and or at least one revisitation characterization . Web page change information C and revisitation pattern information R may separately or jointly include change and revisitation data change and revisitation characteristics change and revisitation relationships inferred consumption intents etc. of previously processed data. The output of the learned model is a prediction regarding consumption intent such as a change curve or revisitation curve category a change or revisitation amount and so forth.

In an example embodiment at block it is ascertained that a web page may be relevant to a user. For example web software may be specifically directed to web page by a user web software may produce a web search result that is directed to a web page web software may detect through monitoring or reporting that multiple users are repeatedly visiting a web page and so forth.

At block it is inferred that the user intends to consume the current content old content or monitored changes content of the web page responsive to a relationship between change data and revisitation data for the web page. For example consumption intent inference engine may infer that the user intends to consume current content of web page . Alternatively it may be inferred that the user intends to consume old content that was previously accessed. Or it may be inferred that the user wishes to consume content by way of monitoring changes to the web page such as changes in stock price or other information. These monitored changes can be presented using for example a mark up technique such as strikethrough highlighting or underline.

At block the web software offers to the user to present the current content the old content or the monitored changes content of the web page utilizing the inferred consumption intent. For example the user can be offered a choice to be presented any one or more of these types of content. Old content may be acquired from a cached version. Monitored changes content may be produced from two or more versions of the content of the web page at different times. Alternatively the web software may select which type of content to present to the user without offering the user a choice or after offering the user a choice and not receiving a user input.

At block in response to user input if available the selected current content old content or monitored changes content of the web page is presented. Generally presentation of content from a web page may entail for example transmitting the content block displaying the content block and so forth.

At block it is inferred that a particular portion of a web page is intended to be consumed by multiple users. For example it may be inferred that web page portion of is intended to be consumed by users. At block the particular portion is differentially utilized in generating a snippet for a search result that is directed to the web page. For example the snippet to be presented for a search result may be extracted from the content of web page portion . The snippet may be primarily but not necessarily entirely extracted from one portion. The snippet may include content from multiple portions with greater emphasis placed on the portion s that appear to be more significant.

At block it is inferred that old content of a web page is intended to be consumed by at least one user. For example it may be inferred that old content that is cached from a web page is intended to be consumed by a user responsive to a relationship between change data and revisitation data. At block an opportunity to receive the old content of the web page is offered to the user. For example a listing of search results may include a link that is capable when selected of presenting cached old content for the corresponding web page. A browser browser plug in proxy server etc. may also offer to present old content.

At block it is inferred that monitored changes content of a web page is intended to be consumed by at least one user. For example it may be inferred that a user intends to monitor how information changes on a web page over time. At block the at least one user is offered an opportunity to receive indications of what content from the web page has changed as part of a search result directed to the web page. For example a link of a search result when selected may be capable of providing marked up web page content that indicates how information on the web page has changed. Alternatively for blocks and the web software may select without user input whether to present old content changed content and so forth. Such selection by the web software may be made without making an offer to the user or after making an offer to the user and not receiving any input.

At block it is inferred that a particular portion of a web page is intended to be consumed by at least one user. For example it may be inferred that web page portion of is intended to be consumed by a user. At block the particular portion of the web page is emphasized for presentation while at least one other portion of the web page is de emphasized from presentation. For example web page portion may be selected to be transmitted displayed etc. while another web page portion e.g. and or is excluded from being transmitted or displayed. However emphasis and de emphasis may be implemented without relying on an inclusion exclusion approach. In a bandwidth constrained scenario transmitting the desired web page portion while excluding others can save bandwidth. In a scenario in which screen space is constrained such as with many mobile devices displaying the desired web page portion while excluding others can facilitate viewing.

At block it is inferred that monitored changes of a web page are intended to be consumed by at least one user. For example it may inferred that a user intends to monitor changing information of a web page. At block an alert is created for the at least one user when a monitored change is detected. For example an alert that indicates that the monitored information has changed may be created. The alert may be presented to the user and it may also include the changed information.

At block it is inferred that at least one user intends to consume at least a portion of a web page after the portion changes. For example responsive to a change and revisitation relationship it may be inferred that a user intends to consume at least a portion of a web page after the portion next changes. At block the web page or changed portion thereof may be pre fetched and cached. Because the web page has been pre fetched the at least one user has access to the changed portion of the web page in a disconnected scenario. For example after a page that a user regularly revisits has changed at least a portion thereof web software may pre fetch the web page. After a device enters a mobile situation or is otherwise disconnected from the internet the user may still be presented the changed web page.

For example embodiments device may represent any processing capable device. Example devices include personal or server computers hand held electronics entertainment appliances network components some combination thereof and so forth. Device and device may communicate over network s . Network s may be by way of example but not limitation an internet an intranet an Ethernet a public network a private network a cable network a digital subscriber line DSL network a telephone network a wireless network some combination thereof and so forth. Human device interface equipment may be a keyboard keypad a touch screen a remote a mouse or other graphical pointing device a screen a speaker and so forth.

I O interfaces may include i a network interface for monitoring and or communicating across network ii a display device interface for displaying information on a display screen iii one or more human device interfaces and so forth. Examples of i network interfaces include a network card a modem one or more ports a network communications stack a radio and so forth. Examples of ii display device interfaces include a graphics driver a graphics card a hardware or software driver for a screen or monitor and so forth. Examples of iii human device interfaces include those that communicate by wire or wirelessly to human device interface equipment .

Processor may be implemented using any applicable processing capable technology and one may be realized as a general purpose or a special purpose processor. Examples include a central processing unit CPU a microprocessor a controller a graphics processing unit GPU a derivative or combination thereof and so forth. Media may be any available media that is included as part of and or is accessible by device . It includes volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media storage and transmission media e.g. wireless or wired communication channels hard coded logic media combinations thereof and so forth. Media is tangible media when it is embodied as a manufacture and or as a composition of matter.

Generally processor is capable of executing performing and or otherwise effectuating processor executable instructions such as processor executable instructions . Media is comprised of one or more processor accessible media. In other words media may include processor executable instructions that are executable by processor to effectuate the performance of functions by device . Processor executable instructions may be embodied as software firmware hardware fixed logic circuitry some combination thereof and so forth.

Thus realizations for relating web page change with revisitation patterns may be described in the general context of processor executable instructions. Processor executable instructions may include routines programs applications coding modules protocols objects components metadata and definitions thereof data structures application programming interfaces APIs etc. that perform and or enable particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. Processor executable instructions may be located in separate storage media executed by different processors and or propagated over or extant on various transmission media.

As specifically illustrated media comprises at least processor executable instructions . Processor executable instructions may comprise for example web software of and or the components of scheme B of . Generally processor executable instructions when executed by processor enable device to perform the various functions described herein. Such functions include by way of example those that are illustrated in the various flow diagrams and those pertaining to features illustrated in the block diagrams as well as combinations thereof and so forth.

The devices acts features functions methods modules data structures techniques components etc. of are illustrated in diagrams that are divided into multiple blocks and other elements. However the order interconnections interrelationships layout etc. in which are described and or shown are not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the blocks and or other elements can be modified combined rearranged augmented omitted etc. in any manner to implement one or more systems methods devices media apparatuses arrangements etc. for relating web page change with revisitation patterns.

Although systems methods devices media apparatuses arrangements and other example embodiments have been described in language specific to structural logical algorithmic and or functional features it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claimed invention.

