---

title: Enhanced domain name generation and registration
abstract: Methods of the present inventions allow for generating and providing an enhanced domain name. An exemplary method may comprise providing an enhanced domain to a second party. The enhanced domain may comprise a domain name, a web space automatically enabled and associated with the domain name, and at least one application automatically enabled and associated with the domain name.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08301743&OS=08301743&RS=08301743
owner: Go Daddy Operating Company, LLC
number: 08301743
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080724
---
This patent application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 179 354 entitled Systems for Generating and Registering Enhanced Domain Names concurrently filed herewith and also assigned to Go Daddy Operating Company LLC.

The present inventions generally relate to establishing a presence on the Internet and more specifically enhanced domain name generation and registration.

A network is a collection of links and nodes e.g. multiple computers and or other devices connected together arranged so that information may be passed from one part of the network to another over multiple links and through various nodes. Examples of networks include the Internet the public switched telephone network the global Telex network computer networks e.g. an intranet an extranet a local area network or a wide area network wired networks and wireless networks.

The Internet is a worldwide network of computers and computer networks arranged to allow the easy and robust exchange of information between computer users. Hundreds of millions of people around the world have access to computers connected to the Internet via Internet Service Providers ISPs . Content providers place multimedia information e.g. text graphics audio video animation and other forms of data at specific locations on the Internet referred to as webpages. Websites comprise a collection of connected or otherwise related webpages. The combination of all the websites and their corresponding webpages on the Internet is generally known as the World Wide Web WWW or simply the Web.

Prevalent on the Web are multimedia websites some of which may offer and sell goods and services to individuals and organizations. Websites may consist of a single webpage but typically consist of multiple interconnected and related webpages. Websites unless extremely large and complex or have unusual traffic demands typically reside on a single server and are prepared and maintained by a single individual or entity. Menus and links may be used to move between different webpages within the website or to move to a different website as is known in the art. The interconnectivity of webpages enabled by the Internet can make it difficult for Internet users to tell where one website ends and another begins.

Websites may be created using HyperText Markup Language HTML to generate a standard set of tags that define how the webpages for the website are to be displayed. Users of the Internet may access content providers websites using software known as an Internet browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX. After the browser has located the desired webpage it requests and receives information from the webpage typically in the form of an HTML document and then displays the webpage content for the user. The user then may view other webpages at the same website or move to an entirely different website using the browser.

Browsers are able to locate specific websites because each website resource and computer on the Internet has a unique Internet Protocol IP address. Presently there are two standards for IP addresses. The older IP address standard often called IP Version 4 IPv4 is a 32 bit binary number which is typically shown in dotted decimal notation where four 8 bit bytes are separated by a dot from each other e.g. 64.202.167.32 . The notation is used to improve human readability. The newer IP address standard often called IP Version 6 IPv6 or Next Generation Internet Protocol IPng is a 128 bit binary number. The standard human readable notation for IPv6 addresses presents the address as eight 16 bit hexadecimal words each separated by a colon e.g. 2EDC BA98 0332 0000 CF8A 000C 2154 7313 .

IP addresses however even in human readable notation are difficult for people to remember and use. A Uniform Resource Locator URL is much easier to remember and may be used to point to any computer directory or file on the Internet. A browser is able to access a website on the Internet through the use of a URL. The URL may include a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP request combined with the website s Internet address also known as the website s domain name. An example of a URL with a HTTP request and domain name is http www.companyname.com. In this example the http identifies the URL as a HTTP request and the companyname.com is the domain name.

Domain names are much easier to remember and use than their corresponding IP addresses. The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ICANN approves some Generic Top Level Domains gTLD and delegates the responsibility to a particular organization a registry for maintaining an authoritative source for the registered domain names within a TLD and their corresponding IP addresses. For certain TLDs e.g. .biz .info .name and .org the registry is also the authoritative source for contact information related to the domain name and is referred to as a thick registry. For other TLDs e.g. .com and .net only the domain name registrar identification and name server information is stored within the registry and a registrar is the authoritative source for the contact information related to the domain name. Such registries are referred to as thin registries. Most gTLDs are organized through a central domain name Shared Registration System SRS based on their TLD.

The process for registering a domain name with .com .net .org and some other TLDs allows an Internet user to use an ICANN accredited registrar to register their domain name. For example if an Internet user John Doe wishes to register the domain name mycompany.com John Doe may initially determine whether the desired domain name is available by contacting a domain name registrar. The Internet user may make this contact using the registrar s webpage and typing the desired domain name into a field on the registrar s webpage created for this purpose. Upon receiving the request from the Internet user the registrar may ascertain whether mycompany.com has already been registered by checking the SRS database associated with the TLD of the domain name. The results of the search then may be displayed on the webpage to thereby notify the Internet user of the availability of the domain name. If the domain name is available the Internet user may proceed with the registration process. Otherwise the Internet user may keep selecting alternative domain names until an available domain name is found. Domain names are typically registered for a period of one to ten years with first rights to continually re register the domain name.

For Internet users and businesses alike the Internet continues to be increasingly valuable. More people use the Web for everyday tasks from social networking shopping banking and paying bills to consuming media and entertainment. E commerce is growing with businesses delivering more services and content across the Internet communicating and collaborating online and inventing new ways to connect with each other.

Some Internet users typically those that are larger and more sophisticated may provide their own hardware software and connections to the Internet. But many Internet users either do not have the resources available or do not want to create and maintain the infrastructure necessary to host their own websites. To assist such individuals or entities hosting companies exist that offer website hosting services. These hosting service providers typically provide the hardware software and electronic communication means necessary to connect multiple websites to the Internet. A single hosting service provider may literally host thousands of websites on one or more hosting servers.

Hosting service providers often sell website hosting services based upon the content provider s anticipated memory and or bandwidth needs. For example a content provider may pay a lower monthly fee for 100 gigabytes GB of memory server disk space and 1000 GB of bandwidth than another content provider whose website may require 500 GB and 5000 GB of server disk space and bandwidth respectively. Content providers must evaluate their website s anticipated storage and bandwidth needs and select their hosting service plan accordingly.

Applicant has noticed that however that presently existing systems and methods require a domain name registrant wishing to establish an online presence to navigate through a complicated series of steps to do so. First he must register a domain name. He must then purchase configure and implement a hosting service plan and perhaps a variety of software applications to add functionality to his website. This process can be complicated time consuming and fraught with opportunity for user error. For the foregoing reasons there is a need for the systems and methods for providing enhanced domain names and related functionality as described herein.

The limitations cited above and others are substantially overcome through the systems and methods disclosed herein which allow for providing enhanced domain names and related functionality.

An exemplary method for providing an enhanced domain name may comprise the step of providing an enhanced domain to a second party. The enhanced domain may comprise a domain name a web space automatically enabled and associated with the domain name and at least one application automatically enabled and associated with the domain name.

An example embodiment of a system for providing an enhanced domain name may comprise a domain name stored in a network storage device a web space associated with the domain name at least one application associated with the domain name and stored on at least one applications server and a network communicatively coupling the network storage device web space and at least one application server wherein the web space and application may be automatically enabled upon association with the domain name.

The above features and advantages of the present inventions will be better understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The present inventions will now be discussed in detail with regard to the attached drawing figures which were briefly described above. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth illustrating the Applicant s best mode for practicing the inventions and enabling one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the inventions. It will be obvious however to one skilled in the art that the present inventions may be practiced without many of these specific details. In other instances well known machines structures and method steps have not been described in particular detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present inventions. Unless otherwise indicated like parts and method steps are referred to with like reference numerals.

As illustrated in the enhanced domain name may comprise a domain name a web space associated with the domain name and at least one application associated with the domain name . Web space as the term is used herein is meant to refer to any data storage and or data transfer means used to develop and or establish an online presence. As illustrated in non limiting examples of such web space may comprise a hosting service a predetermined bandwidth allotment a predetermined storage allotment and or any combination thereof. The hosting service may comprise any hosting method known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to a third party hosting provider s hosting service such as any of GODADDY.COM s hosting plans. As shown in the hosting service may utilize shared virtual dedicated dedicated and or clustered hosting technology.

With a shared hosting embodiment many websites may reside on a single server. Each website may be stored in its own partition i.e. section or place on the server to keep it separate from other websites. Shared hosting may provide an economical hosting option because numerous hosting customers may share in server maintenance cost. With virtual dedicated hosting servers also may comprise a single server but one that is partitioned into multiple virtual servers each of which may have the appearance to the end user of being the users own dedicated server. Such virtual dedicated servers may run their own operating system and be independently rebooted. With dedicated hosting the hosting customer may lease a complete server that is dedicated to that customer i.e. not shared with others . This model may be more flexible than shared or virtual dedicated hosting because customers may be provided complete control over the server including the ability to customize its hardware software and or operating system. With clustered hosting a computer cluster may comprise a plurality of communicatively coupled computers or servers working together that may appear to a user as a single computer or server. Clustered computers or servers may improve performance and or availability over that provided by a single computer or server. The computers or servers in a cluster may be connected to each other perhaps via high speed local area networks. Accordingly a hosted website may share the processing power of many servers perhaps with other websites.

The predetermined bandwidth allotment may comprise a predetermined amount of bandwidth that may be associated with the domain name and allocated for use is association with the enhanced domain name . The term bandwidth refers to the volume of data often measured in gigabytes GB transferred to or from a server during a prescribed period of time. The predetermined storage allotment may comprise a predetermined amount of memory accessible via the Internet or another network that may be associated with the domain name and allocated for use by the enhanced domain name and or its registrant his computer server or website. The storage allotment may comprise any amount of memory that may be stored on any form of data storage including but not limited to a file server data server database and or any network storage device having the ability to store data. Both the bandwidth and storage allotments may comprise components of the hosting service discussed above. Alternatively they may comprise separately existing services.

Web space may be associated with a domain name by any method of linking or correlating the domain name with a hosting service bandwidth allotment and or storage allotment known in the art or developed in the future. As a non limiting example a hosting service which may comprise a bandwidth allotment and or storage allotment may be associated with a domain name by updating the domain name s A record in the domain name system DNS zone file to ensure that the DNS uses the IP address associated with the domain name for the hosting service . A domain name s A record is an entry in the DNS record that maps each domain name to a specific IP address. The A record therefore specifies the IP address to which a user or browser is directed for each domain name. The A record may be updated manually or automatically perhaps via specifically written scripts or other software to accomplish this task. This update may occur during the enhanced domain name providing and or registration processes Steps and . Alternatively a record correlating the domain name with the web space may be generated and stored perhaps in a network storage device.

An enhanced domain name user may wish to utilize the web space associated with his enhanced domain name to develop and publish a website that may have different features that can be implemented by various applications i.e. server or client side software generating the requisite functionality . As non limiting examples such applications may include a website s operating system e mail online file storage e.g. documents videos photos etc. forums blogs shopping cart SSL certificates flash etc.

As illustrated in the at least one application also may comprise an email account e.g. GODADDY.COM EMAIL a blog e.g. GODADDY.COM QUICK BLOGCAST a forum application an instant messaging application a website building application e.g. GODADDY.COM WEBSITE TONIGHT an online file storage service application e.g. GODADDY.COM ONLINE FILE FOLDER AND ONLINE PHOTO FILER a shopping cart application e.g. GODADDY.COM QUICK SHOPPING CART an SSL certificate e.g. GODADDY.COM STANDARD DELUXE OR PREMIUM SSL CERTIFICATES a website traffic improvement tool e.g. GODADDY.COM TRAFFIC BLAZER an email marketing solution e.g. GODADDY.COM EXPRESS EMAIL MARKETING another ecommerce solution or any combination thereof.

Applications may be associated with a domain name by any method of linking or correlating the domain name with an application known in the art or developed in the future. As a non limiting example applications may be associated with a domain name by installing the applications on a website resolving from the domain name . The website may or may not be hosted with the hosting service . Alternatively a record correlating the domain name with the applications may be generated and stored perhaps in a network storage device.

The enhanced domain name and each of its components i.e. a domain name web space and application may comprise a single unit interrelated as described above that may be provided to second parties offered for sale sold purchased and or registered. Alternatively each component i.e. a domain name web space and application may be individually provided offered for sale sold purchased and or registered. Thus the embodiments described herein may be practiced by a single entity or jointly by multiple entities.

As illustrated in applications may be selected by the enhanced domain registrant perhaps while the registrant is registering the enhanced domain name Step . In an example embodiment this may be accomplished via a website enabled purchase and registration system perhaps via a webpage allowing the registrant to select the applications that he may want associated with his domain name . The webpage may comprise a software implemented user interface perhaps comprising data fields dialog boxes drop down menus lists etc. allowing the registrant to select and or identify applications .

As illustrated in applications may be selected for the registrant perhaps while the registrant is registering the enhanced domain name Step . In one example embodiment a predetermined set of default applications may selected for the registrant. Alternatively applications may be selected by an automated application selection tool such as that described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 029 062 entitled Systems and Methods for Recommending Website Hosting Applications which is incorporated herein by reference and assigned to The Go Daddy Group Inc.

As illustrated in the functionality of the hosting service may then be enabled Step by any method of provisioning a website hosting service known in the art or developed in the future. If not already accomplished as described above the DNS A record for the registrant s domain name may be updated to reflect the IP address of the hosting service . A predetermined bandwidth allotment and a predetermined storage allotment that may be associated with the hosting service may then be provisioned Step to accept data files and http requests. Once the DNS A record update mapping the hosting service to the domain name propagates through the DNS the hosting service functionality may be enabled.

As illustrated in the selected applications functionality may then be enabled Step . This step may be accomplished by configuring an application to function via a website resolving from a domain name . As a non limiting example an email application associated with a domain name e.g. example.com may be configured to have an operating email account available via the website perhaps with registrant example.com as the functioning email address. Application functionality may be enabled by setting applications to predetermined default settings Step . For example a website building application may automatically default to a predetermined website color format and number of webpages. Alternatively the registrant may be provided the option to select application settings perhaps during the enhanced domain name registration process.

As illustrated in and a starter website may be provided Step that resolves from the domain name and has a control panel allowing the enhanced domain name registrant to configure and utilize all aspects of his hosting service and or applications . The starter website may be hosted by the hosting service or on any server or client accessible to the Internet or another network. The control panel may comprise a webpage on the starter website a plurality of webpages on the starter website or any combination thereof. As a non limiting example the control panel may comprise a software implemented user interface perhaps comprising data fields dialog boxes drop down menus lists etc. allowing the registrant to select install configure and or customize hosting service and or application features and or settings. In one embodiment the control panel may provide tools allowing the registrant to modify default application settings.

As illustrated in the starter website and or control panel also may comprise a link to each application . In this example embodiment the control panel may provide either direct or indirect access to each application . The link may be presented on the control panel in any form known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to a window dialog box URL widget feed or any combination thereof. Where the link comprises a URL the URL may point to the IP address of the application server where the application is stored.

As illustrated in the link may comprise a unique URL generated for each application by concatenating at least one subdomain to the domain name wherein the unique URL points to an application that may be stored on an application server Step . For example if a registrant registers the domain name example.com a subdomain e.g. email then may be concatenated to example.com to generate a unique URL pointing to his email application e.g. email.example.com . Using a sampling of the applications discussed above e.g. blog forum instant messaging etc. additional unique URLs may be generated that point to these applications such as blog.example.com forum.example.com and instantmessenger.example.com. In this example embodiment the subdomain need not have the same name as the related application . Any subdomain may be used perhaps one that simply refers to the application s trade name e.g. godaddymail.example.com or quickblogcast.example.com . Step may be completed by mapping each unique URL to the IP address for the relevant applications server and updating the DNS record accordingly. A link to each unique URL may then be added to the control panel Step .

In an example widget feed embodiment the link may comprise a widget having the ability to receive a feed from an application server hosting the applications . A widget is a host software system for running and displaying desktop tools on the desktop that may give access to information and frequently used functions such as feeds clocks calendars news aggregators etc. A feed is a data format perhaps XML based used for providing users with frequently updated content. Two common feed formats that may be used with the present invention are RSS and Atom. The widget may use any of the widely available client or server side feed readers aggregators including but not limited to FEEDREADER CONNECT FEEDREADER OEM ATTENSA FEED READERS. Alternatively proprietary widget feed software solutions may be used.

As illustrated in the starter website and or control panel also may comprise a wizard application for the hosting service and or each application . A wizard application may comprise a software application that leads a user through a series of steps needed to install configure and or customize an application by displaying a user interface presenting the registrant with a sequence of dialog boxes. By following the instructions and or answering questions in the dialog boxes the registrant may accomplish the task at hand e.g. customizing application settings . There may be one or more wizard for each application and hosting service . The wizard may be presented on the control panel in any form known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to a window dialog box link URL widget RSS feed or any combination thereof.

Without the registrant s further participation at least one hosting service and at least one application may be associated with the domain name Steps and perhaps via the methods of associating applications hosting services and domain names described in conjunction with Step above. As also described above in detail above and also without any further participation of the registrant the functionality of the hosting service and at least one application may be enabled Steps and and a starter website may be provided Step that resolves from the domain name . The starter website may have a control panel allowing the registrant to configure and utilize the hosting service and at least one application .

Steps and may be accomplished manually perhaps by a domain name registrar or hosting service provider offering a domain name and or an enhanced domain name for sale and or registration. Alternatively these steps may be performed automatically perhaps upon registration of the domain name or enhanced domain name . As a non limiting example software and or a script a program or sequence of instructions that is interpreted or carried out by another program may be written and implemented allowing the operating system of a server providing the hosting service or perhaps an applications server storing the applications to accomplish the association and or enablement steps as described in detail above in conjunction with Step .

The domain name may comprise a traditional domain name as described above the functional equivalent of a domain name and or any evolution of the domain name concept that may be developed in the future including but not limited to an enhanced domain name as claimed herein. The domain name may be stored in a network storage device perhaps a domain name database that may store a plurality of registered domain names and perhaps information regarding the registrant who may comprise an individual or an entity including but not limited to a person a business a governmental institution an educational institution a non profit organization or a social organization.

The network storage device may be maintained by a domain name registrar and as a non limiting example may comprise a local database online database desktop database server side database relational database hierarchical database network database object database object relational database associative database concept oriented database entity attribute value database multi dimensional database semi structured database star schema database XML database file collection of files spreadsheet or other means of data storage located on a computer client server or any other storage device known in the art or developed in the future.

As described in detail above web space as the term is used herein is meant to refer to any data storage and or data transfer means used to develop and or establish an online presence including but not limited to a hosting service a predetermined bandwidth allotment a predetermined storage allotment or any combination thereof. As shown in the hosting service may comprise a shared hosting service a virtual dedicated hosting service a dedicated hosting service a clustered hosting service or any combination thereof.

The at least one application may comprise any server or client side software application generating website functionality. As non limiting examples such applications may include a website s operating system e mail online file storage e.g. documents videos photos etc. forums blogs shopping cart SSL certificates flash etc. Applications may be stored on an applications server that may comprise as may any other server described herein any computer or program that provides services to other computers programs or users either in the same computer or over a computer network. As non limiting examples the applications server could be an application communication mail database proxy fax file media web peer to peer or standalone server and may use any server format known in the art or developed in the future possibly a shared hosting server a virtual dedicated hosting server a dedicated hosting server clustered hosting solution and or any combination thereof .

The example embodiments herein place no limitation on network configuration or connectivity. Thus as non limiting examples the network could comprise the Internet the public switched telephone network the global Telex network computer networks e.g. an intranet an extranet a local area network or a wide area network wired networks wireless networks or any combination thereof.

The network storage device the web space and the at least one application server may be communicatively coupled to the network via any method of network connection known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to wired wireless modem dial up satellite cable modem Digital Subscriber Line DSL Asymmetric Digital Subscribers Line ASDL Virtual Private Network VPN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN X.25 Ethernet token ring Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI IP over Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Infrared Data Association IrDA wireless WAN technologies Ti Frame Relay Point to Point Protocol over Ethernet PPPoE and or any combination thereof.

The API may comprise any API type known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to request style Berkeley Sockets Transport Layer Interface TLI Representational State Transfer REST SOAP Remote Procedure Calls RPC Standard Query Language SQL file transfer message delivery and or any combination thereof. The API may be exposed to the third party by any method known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to pointing the third party to a web server to make an HTTP request in the proper function call format. The API s specification may be provided to the third party which may define the function call format required by the API . The specified function call format may require identifying information from the third party that may allow the hosting service and or applications server to determine whether the third party attempting to access the API has been granted access. Access to the API may be governed by an access protected URL that permits access only to properly identified entities.

The example embodiment illustrated in further comprises a starter website resolving from the domain name that may have a control panel allowing the registrant to configure customize and or utilize the web space hosting service bandwidth and storage allotments and applications . The starter website may be hosted with the hosting service or alternatively on any client or server communicatively coupled to the network and may comprise any collection of data and or files accessible via a browser on a client having access to the network . Examples of clients that may be used include a desktop computer a laptop computer a hand held computer a terminal a television a television set top box a cellular phone a wireless phone a wireless hand held device an Internet access device a rich client thin client or any other client functional with a client server computing architecture. As non limiting examples the starter website may comprise a single webpage or multiple interconnected and related webpages each of which may provide access to multimedia content e.g. text files audio files video files graphics files executable files etc. . Additional embodiments of the starter website are described in detail above and further illustrated in .

The means for registering a domain name to a registrant may comprise any domain name registration system known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to a website enabled domain name purchase and registration system such as that described in detail above and or may be available on GODADDY.COM s website.

The means and for without the registrant s further participation associating at least one hosting service and at least one application with the domain name may comprise software and or scripts containing instructions that when executed by a microprocessor on a server or client cause the microprocessor to associate web space and or applications with the domain name . Any such software and or scripts may be stored on any server or client communicatively coupled to the network perhaps an applications server or hosting service servers. Web space may be associated with a domain name by any method of linking or correlating the domain name with a hosting service bandwidth allotment and or storage allotment known in the art or developed in the future. As a non limiting example a hosting service which may comprise a bandwidth allotment and or storage allotment may be associated with a domain name by updating the domain name s A record in the DNS zone file to ensure that the DNS uses the IP address associated with the domain name for the hosting service . This update may occur during the enhanced domain name registration process Step . Alternatively a record correlating the domain name with the web space may be generated and stored perhaps in a network storage device. Software and or scripts may associate the web space with the domain name automatically or alternatively the association may be performed manually perhaps by a domain name registrar after a domain name is registered.

Applications may be associated with a domain name by any method of linking or correlating the domain name with an application known in the art or developed in the future. As a non limiting example applications may be associated with a domain name by installing the applications on a website resolving from the domain name that is hosted with a hosting service . Alternatively a record correlating the domain name with the applications may be generated and stored perhaps in a network storage device. Software and or scripts may associate applications with the domain name automatically or alternatively the association may be performed manually perhaps by a domain name registrar after a domain name is registered.

The means and for without said registrant s further participation enabling the functionality of the hosting service and or at least one application may comprise software and or scripts containing instructions that when executed by a microprocessor on a server or client cause the microprocessor to enable the web space and or applications . Any such software and or scripts may be stored on any server or client communicatively coupled to the network . The functionality of web space may be enabled Step by any method of provisioning a website hosting service known in the art or developed in the future. If not already accomplished as described above the DNS A record for the registrant s domain name may be updated to reflect the IP address of the hosting service . A predetermined bandwidth allotment and a predetermined storage allotment that may be associated with the hosting service may then be provisioned Step to accept data files and http requests. Once the DNS A record update mapping the hosting service to the domain name propagates through the DNS the hosting service functionality may be enabled. Software and or scripts may enable the web space hosting service bandwidth allotment and or storage allotment automatically or alternatively the enablement may be performed manually perhaps by a domain name registrar after a domain name is registered.

The selected applications functionality may be enabled Step by configuring an application to function via a website resolving from a domain name . As a non limiting example an email application associated with a domain name e.g. example.com may be configured to have an operating email account available via the website perhaps with registrant example.com as the functioning email address. Application functionality may be enabled by setting applications to predetermined default settings Step . For example a website building application may automatically default to a predetermined website color format and number of webpages. Alternatively the registrant may be provided the option to select application settings perhaps during the enhanced domain name registration process. Software and or scripts may enable applications automatically or alternatively the enablement may be performed manually perhaps by a domain name registrar after a domain name is registered.

The means for without said registrant s further participation providing a starter website may comprise software and or scripts containing instructions that when executed by a microprocessor on a server or client cause the microprocessor to generate and host a starter website accessible via the network . Any such software and or scripts may be stored on any server or client communicatively coupled to the network and may generate a starter website that may be hosted on a hosting service and accessible via a browser on a client. As illustrated in and a starter website may resolve from the domain name and has a control panel allowing the enhanced domain name registrant to configure and utilize all aspects of his hosting service and applications . Alternatively the starter website generation means may comprise at least one individual manually generating the starter website perhaps via a website building application such as GODADDY.COM s WEBSITE TONIGHT.

The systems and methods described herein may be used in many ways to among other things provide Internet users with a simple quick and effective way to establish an online presence. The described embodiments may provide Internet users with an enhanced domain name that may come pre packaged with pre configured hosting services and website applications that may require no additional setup by the registrant to work. Accordingly after the registrant registers an enhanced domain name Step the registered domain name when entered in a browser may resolve to a starter website that may display a link to each application which may be fully functional and ready for use. Alternatively the starter website may display perhaps via a widget feed combination a window on a control panel containing a wizard allowing the registrant to customize the functionality of each application .

As a non limiting example of how such systems and methods may be used third parties perhaps open source software developers may develop website applications perhaps a blog application or some other ecommerce solution via an exposed API on an applications server . These may be added to the applications available for use by Internet users who may register an enhanced domain name .

An Internet user who may wish to establish an online presence may subsequently access a domain name registrar such as GODADDY.COM s website and register the domain name example.com Step . During the registration process Step the domain name registrant may select a few software applications Step to provide functionality to a website perhaps an email account the third party developer s blog application discussed above and a website builder .

Software and or scripts running on the domain name registrar s servers may then automatically provision a hosting service perhaps provided by the domain name registrar on its servers by updating the domain name s A record in the DNS zone file to ensure that the DNS uses the IP address associated with the domain name for the hosting service . Any associated bandwidth and storage allotments also may be automatically provisioned. Similar software and or scripts may then communicate with the applications server via the network and automatically install the selected applications on a starter website resolving from the domain name . The starter website may be hosted with the domain name registrar s hosting service and may act as a temporary website until the registrant decides to customize the website perhaps via a control panel on the starter website .

Specifically written software and or scripts running on the domain name registrar s servers may then automatically generate a unique URL for each application by concatenating at least one subdomain to the domain name wherein said unique URL points to said at least one application Step e.g. email.example.com blog.example.com and or websitebuilder.example.com. The same or similar software and or scripts may then map each unique URL to the IP address for the relevant application on the applications server and update the DNS records accordingly. A link to each unique URL may then be added to the control panel Step allowing the registrant to access the selected applications .

The registrant may then customize his hosting service and or applications features via a wizard on the control panel that may walk the registrant through the customization process. For example the wizard may permit the registrant to modify the appearance and theme of the starter website and perhaps add images via a website builder application such as GODADDY.COM s WEBSITE TONIGHT. The registrant also may use the wizard to change the settings on his blog application perhaps modifying the sequence that comments are displayed.

Other embodiments and uses of the above inventions will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon consideration of the specification and practice of the inventions disclosed herein. The specification and examples given should be considered exemplary only and it is contemplated that the appended claims will cover any other such embodiments or modifications as fall within the true scope of the inventions.

The Abstract accompanying this specification is provided to enable the United States Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and gist of the technical disclosure and in no way intended for defining determining or limiting the present inventions or any of its embodiments.

