---

title: Device for delivering medicinal implants
abstract: The invention includes a device for inserting a medicament within a body cavity of a mammal, the device including a cartridge for containing the medicament therein, the cartridge including a housing, a retractable chamber disposed within the housing and having a lumen, a substantially stationary member disposed within the lumen of the retractable chamber and having a uniform cross-section sized to provide a sliding fit within the lumen to provide for retraction of the retractable chamber about the substantially stationary member upon actuation of the device, and means for retracting the retractable chamber about the substantially stationary member while maintaining the substantially stationary member in a substantially stationary position upon actuation of the device; the device further including means for activating the means for retracting the retractable chamber.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07976489&OS=07976489&RS=07976489
owner: OraPharma, Inc.
number: 07976489
owner_city: Warminster
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081202
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application 60 992 193 filed on Dec. 4 2007 the complete disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Periodontal disease is a general term for a variety of dental conditions associated with either gingivitis or periodontitis. Gingivitis is an inflammation of the gingiva or gums. It is commonly associated with poor oral hygiene and or the hormonal state of the patient. If left untreated gingivitis may develop into periodontitis.

Periodontitis is a bacterial disease in which the infection has progressed to involve the oral tissues that retain the teeth in the jawbone. With this disease the gums become red and inflamed. This condition if untreated results in damage to the ligaments and bone holding the teeth in place and formation of pockets around the teeth. As the pockets become deeper teeth loosen to a point where they may fall out. Dental practitioners determine the severity of periodontitis by measuring the depth of these pockets and reviewing x rays of the teeth and surrounding bone.

Periodontal disease involves a different treatment protocol than other oral diseases. While many oral diseases can be treated with proper hygiene fluoride pastes washes and rinses periodontal disease is often resistant to this treatment. This is because of differences between the oral and periodontal cavities. The oral cavity is essentially an aerobic environment constantly perfused by saliva. In contrast the periodontal cavity is more anaerobic and is perfused by plasma filtrate known as crevicular fluid . The growth of microorganisms within the periodontal cavity microenvironment may cause periodontal disease. As the disease progresses the periodontal microenvironment becomes more anaerobic and the flow of crevicular fluid increases.

Efforts to treat periodontal disease have met with limited degrees of success. This is because the site of the bacterial infections in the periodontal cavity are largely inaccessible to agents present in the oral cavity as well as agents provided to the oral cavity such as mouthwashes rinses and the like. Moreover the increased outflow of crevicular fluid that accompanies periodontal disease inhibits therapeutic agents placed into the oral cavity from entering the pockets.

Oral systemic administration of antibiotics has been shown to be a useful method of controlling subgingival flora in some cases. However because of side effects such as those of the digestive system oral systemic administration has had only limited use in treating periodontal disease. Oral systemic therapy also requires frequent dosing so patient compliance is frequently a problem.

Recently efforts have focused on delivering therapeutic agents directly to these pockets in some cases in a controlled release formulation. In general administration of agents directly to the pocket permits higher local drug concentrations that can be safely achieved by systemic administration. Also some agents such as growth factors must be administered directly to the target site i.e. the periodontal pocket. Also as these products are typically administered by dental professionals patient compliance is not an issue.

Administration of microparticles in dry form to the periodontal pocket by use of an apparatus has been disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 236 355 5 366 733 and 5 622 498 all to Brizzolara et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 682 348 to Lawter et al. the contents each of which are incorporated by reference herein. These patents disclose treating dental diseases by administration of dry microparticles to the periodontal pocket. Microparticles suitable for this purpose may have compositions as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 000 886 5 143 661 and 5 500 228 all to Lawter et al. all three of these patents are incorporated by reference herein and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 236 355 5 366 733 and 5 622 498 all to Brizzolara et al. and may be produced by the methods disclosed in the aforementioned six U.S. patents.

The apparatus described in the above listed patents deliver microparticles by use of a plunger to push microparticles out of a hollow cannula. The outlet of the cannula is inserted into a periodontal pocket prior to delivery of the microparticles. During administration of microparticles with such a device there is a tendency to push the cannula outlet against tissue in the bottom of the periodontal pocket while pushing on the plunger. Tissue may block the outlet and increase the force required to push the microparticles out. At high doses of microparticles in a dry powder form the force may be too large to easily push out the medicament since the force required to expel a dry powder will increase rapidly with the length of the powder column. This effect may be overcome to some extent by increasing the interior diameter of the tip. However when it is desired to deliver microparticles to a body cavity of small dimensions such as a periodontal pocket there are limitations on the diameter of the tip. Thus there is a need for improved devices for delivering medicaments to periodontal pockets of a human or animal. There is also a need for a device that provides the ability to administer multiple doses of a medicament.

The present invention is directed to a device for inserting a medicament within a body cavity of a mammal e.g. the periodontal pocket of a human or animal. The device includes a cartridge for containing medicament the cartridge including a retractable chamber with an internal surface an external surface and a lumen defined by the internal surface. Medicament may be disposed within the chamber. The chamber may have a distal tip with a uniform external cross section sized to fit within the body cavity. The device further includes a substantially stationary member disposed within the lumen of the chamber. The substantially stationary member has a uniform cross section sized to provide a sliding fit within the lumen to provide for retraction of the retractable chamber about the substantially stationary member upon actuation of the device. The device also includes a means for retracting the retractable chamber while maintaining the substantially stationary member in a substantially stationary position relative to the device and the body cavity. The device also includes means for activating the means for retracting the retractable chamber. The device thus is configured so that the medicament is expelled from the opening of the chamber by retraction of the chamber about the medicament and the substantially stationary member rather than by forward movement of the substantially stationary member within the chamber to force the medicament from the end of the barrel.

The devices of the present invention are utilized in a method for administering a medicament to body cavity of a mammal e.g. the periodontal pocket of a human or animal including obtaining the medicament containing cartridge and the actuator for dispensing medicaments attaching the cartridge to the actuator and pressing the operating lever or trigger of the actuator to retract the retractable chamber while maintaining the substantially stationary member in a substantially stationary position relative to the device and the body cavity so that the medicament is expelled from the opening of the chamber by retraction of the chamber about the medicament and the substantially stationary member.

The present invention relates to devices used to administer medicaments into a body cavity of a mammal e.g. the periodontal pocket of a human or animal. The devices may contain a single dose or multiple doses of medicament for example in solid powder form as discussed herein. Such devices include a cartridge for housing a retractable chamber the retractable chamber for containing medicament and an actuator for placing the device in operation once the distal portion of the medicament containing chamber is inserted within the body cavity thus providing for delivery of the medicament within the body cavity. In certain embodiments devices may include a sealing means such as a gasket to prevent backflow of the medicament between the internal surface of the chamber and the substantially stationary member upon operation of the device. Devices of the present invention are particularly useful and advantageous for administration of a medicament to the periodontal pocket of a mammal for treatment of periodontitis.

In practice the medicament is placed within the retractable chamber and the chamber then is placed within the cartridge. The cartridge then is connected to the actuator in operational engagement. The distal tip of the retractable chamber extending beyond the distal end of the cartridge is placed within the body cavity at the desired site of delivery of medicament. The actuator then is employed in cooperation with the cartridge to retract the chamber away from the delivery site in a direction towards the actuator. Upon retraction of the chamber the substantially stationary member hereinafter SSM within the chamber that is in contact with the medicament maintains the medicament at the delivery site thus leaving the medicament that was disposed within the tip of the chamber in the body cavity at the desired delivery site. Cartridges used in devices of the present invention are replaceable and may include a single or multiple doses of medicament contained therein. Multiple doses are advantageous as a single cartridge may be employed to deliver medicament to multiple delivery sites prior to replacement. This is particularly advantageous for administration of a medicament to the periodontal pocket of a human for treatment of periodontitis where delivery at multiple sites often is required and discomfort of the patient may be a substantial issue. The chamber used in devices according to the present invention may be in the form of a retractable cannulated barrel where the barrel has an outer surface and an inner surface forming the body of the barrel. The lumen of the barrel then is defined by the configuration of the inner surface. Devices also include an SSM disposed within the lumen of the barrel. The respective cross sections of the lumen of the barrel and the SSM are sized to provide a slidable fit between the inner surface of the barrel and the outer surface of the SSM. By slidable fit it is meant that co axial movement of the barrel relative to the SSM may be accomplished without use of excessive force while maintaining a spatial relationship between the inner surface of the barrel and the outer surface of the SSM so as to avoid unnecessary movement or wobbling of the SSM within the barrel. Upon activation of the device the barrel slides about the SSM in a lateral direction away from the body cavity towards the distal end of the device while the SSM itself remains substantially stationary. By substantially stationary it is meant that upon activation of the device to deliver the medicament to the body cavity the SSM remains in a substantially stationary position in relation to the device itself and to the point within the body cavity at which the medicament is being delivered. While some movement of the SSM relative to the insertion site might occur any such movement should not be sufficient to cause tissue to block the outlet of the barrel or to appreciably increase the force required to deliver the medicament at the site of insertion. This is particularly advantageous where the medicament may be in the form of a dry solid powder such as a dry microparticle powder or microspheres.

Typically but optionally additives such as diluents carriers excipients stabilizers or the like may be included in the formulation.

In one embodiment medicaments may be in the form of a particulate composition such as a dry microparticle powder composition in a sufficient treatment quantity. For example the composition can be ARESTIN minocycline Hydrochloride HCl microspheres available from OraPharma Inc. Warminster Pa. for example in a 1 mg dosage or those compositions as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 000 886 5 143 661 5 236 355 5 366 733 5 500 228 and 5 622 498 all six disclosures of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety herein. These compositions may comprise matrices of biocompatible and biodegradable polymers in accordance with the disclosure of U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 236 355 5 366 733 5 500 228 and 5 622 498.

For example dry microparticle compositions may include therapeutic agents such as antibacterials antibiotics antifungal agents anti inflammatory agents immunosuppressive agents immunostimulatory agents dentinal desensitizers odor masking agents immune reagents anesthetics antiseptics nutritional agents antioxidants lipopolysaccharide complexing agents peroxides growth factors or mixtures thereof. The therapeutic agent could also have antibiotic activity.

Exemplary therapeutic agents may be antibiotics such as tetracycline a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a tetracycline hydrates of a tetracycline and hydrates of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a tetracycline. The tetracyclines may be doxycycline a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of doxycycline hydrates of doxycycline and hydrates of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of doxycycline. Also the tetracycline may be minocycline a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of minocycline hydrates of minocycline and hydrates of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of minocycline.

These exemplary therapeutic agents may be present in the form of particles within the medicament. They can typically range from about 0.00001 to about 50 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of the particles or from about 1 to about 50 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of the particles or more particularly from about 4 to about 40 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of the particles.

Polymers for the aforementioned matrices may include polyglycolide poly 1 lactide poly dl lactide poly glycolide co lactide poly glycolide co lactide poly hydroxybutyric acid poly orthoesters poly p dioxanone and mixtures thereof. The polymers can also be block copolymers of polyglycolide trimethylene carbonate and polyethylene oxide or polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene copolymers. The polymers can also be biopolymers and their derivatives including cellulose cellulose derivatives oxidized regenerated cellulose starch gelatin chitosan and hyaluronan. These polymers may also be such that they become tacky upon contact with water.

The aforementioned particles of particulate compositions including therapeutic agents may for example have particles with diameters ranging from about 0.1 to about 1 000 microns or from about 10 to about 200 microns or from about 20 to about 120 microns.

While the figures are presented as exemplary embodiments of the inventions they are not intended to limit the scope of the invention or the claims appended hereto. Use of the same reference symbols in different figures indicates similar or identical items.

One embodiment of the present invention is shown in . is a cross sectional side view of a distal portion of retractable chamber in the form of retractable barrel for holding a dose of medicament . Medicament is disposed in the lumen defined by the internal surface of barrel . Substantially stationary member SSM is disposed within barrel . Barrel is cannulated to allow passage co axially about SSM and has proximal and distal ends as well as a distal opening . SSM is shown to have distal face . Medicament is located in cannulated barrel and has proximal and distal interfaces. The proximal interface is in contact with distal face of SSM . The cross sectional dimensions e.g. the diameter of the lumen of barrel relative to the cross sectional dimension of SSM is such that barrel may move co axially about SSM in a sliding fit without medicament leaking between SSM and inner surface of barrel and provide for retraction of barrel around SSM . This is particularly applicable to medicaments in powder form. The cross sectional shape of SSM and lumen of barrel may be hexagonal octagonal elliptical or any other shape with a circular cross sectional shape being preferred. In one embodiment SSM has a bell shaped feature not shown on the both ends to create seals with barrel .

Suitable materials from which barrel and SSM may be formed include glasses non corrodible metals synthetic resins such as plastics and the like. These materials may be used alone or in combination. If the device components are made of glasses non corrodible metals or sterilizable synthetic resins they may be used repeatedly by performing sterilization. Preferably barrel and SSM are formed from synthetic resins such as plastics. Plastics may include polyethylene polypropylene and polycarbonate.

An alternative embodiment of the present invention is shown in . is similar to except that multiple doses and are located in the lumen defined by the internal surface of barrel of retractable barrel .

Additional doses of medicament may be disposed within barrel for example four or more doses. Second medicament dose has proximal and distal interfaces. Third medicament dose has proximal and distal interfaces. Second and third medicament doses and may be comprised of the same formulation as first medicament dose or of a different formulation than first medicament dose . The embodiment as shown in allows for the delivery of multiple doses of medicament.

A cross sectional side view of cartridge useful in the present invention is shown in . As shown cartridge includes housing retractable chamber in the form of barrel disposed within housing spring disposed about barrel for retracting barrel upon actuation of the device and SSM disposed within barrel . Barrel is sized to fit slidably within housing . Barrel includes proximal end and distal end and barrel extension . Medicament not shown in is located in the cannulation or lumen of barrel . Distal end of barrel includes distal tip and distal opening . When the cartridge is in loaded engagement with an actuator i.e. ready to dispense medicament spring biases barrel towards proximal end of housing to provide a retracting motion for barrel when actuated.

Housing may be made from the same materials as barrel . Housing includes proximal end and tapered distal end . Though not shown distal end of housing may have a bend of approximately 50 degrees to facilitate entry of distal tip of barrel into the body cavity. In such cases barrel will be made from a plastic and will be flexible so as to traverse the housing. Housing may include means for finger gripping such as fins which enable the barrel to be rotated. Housing may contain means for retaining cap to protect the medicament from contamination such as snap ring located on distal end . Housing may include means for limiting the motion of barrel such as slots that align with barrel extension . Proximal end of housing may include means for attaching cartridge to an actuator not shown such as fingers with flanges which engage an undercut on the tip of the actuator.

Dispensing medicament from cartridge of the present invention is effected by an actuator used in operational engagement with the cartridge. and are cross sectional side views of a proximal portion of cartridge and a distal portion of actuator shown prior to and after connection of the two parts. The figures show a proximal portion of cartridge including housing retractable chamber in the form of barrel retracting spring disposed about barrel and SSM disposed within barrel . Barrel extension and proximal end of barrel are also shown. The figures also show a portion of actuator including tube tip and inner sleeve . Inner sleeve shoulder and inner sleeve distal end are also shown.

As shown in proximal end of barrel is aligned with inner sleeve distal end prior to connection between cartridge and actuator . The opening at proximal end of barrel and inner sleeve distal end are tapered to allow a male to female fit of inner sleeve to barrel .

To complete the connection of actuator to cartridge actuator may be moved distally in the direction of the arrow in while cartridge is kept substantially stationary. The actuator and cartridge may also be brought together by holding the actuator substantially stationary while moving the cartridge or by bringing the two together in relative motion. After connection between cartridge and actuator proximal end of barrel is aligned with inner sleeve shoulder . During the actuator to cartridge connection SSM moves distally in the direction of the arrow in within barrel compacting the medicament not shown located in the lumen at the distal end of barrel . Compacting may be necessary depending on the properties of the medicament in those cases where delivery of multiple substantially equal doses is important. For example powders may benefit from this compacting ensuring a consistent powder density from dose to dose.

In this first embodiment actuator converts a rotational motion to linear motion. Actuator has an operating lever located on the upper surface at distal portion of handle case . Operating lever has a finger manipulating portion and pin and lobe for creating linear motion from rotational motion. Within handle case is a cannulated inner sleeve having a proximal portion a tapered distal portion for interfacing inner sleeve with barrel extension of barrel and a vertical wall with flat surface for engaging lobe of operating lever .

Within the cannulation of inner sleeve is inner sleeve spring and inner ratchet with at least one step three steps shown in . The inner sleeve contains a recess for connecting a ratchet pawl to the inner sleeve. The inner sleeve also contains a slot for maintaining the orientation between the pawl and the ratchet . A pawl spring connects ratchet pawl to a pin in handle case . Pawl spring biases ratchet pawl to remain engaged with first ratchet step . The axial movement of ratchet pawl is limited by pawl pin . The distal end of inner ratchet is engaged with the proximal end of SSM . Inner sleeve spring is located within the cannulation of inner sleeve surrounding distal portion of inner ratchet and biasing the inner ratchet towards the proximal end of handle case .

The proximal portion of ratchet is placed in a clutch . The clutch pivots about a pin located on the handle case to create an immobilized condition which controls the motion of the ratchet only. A clutch rotational lever rotates around a pin mounted in handle case . The clutch rotational lever is connected to the clutch via a spring and controls the immobilized condition of clutch . The proximal portion of inner sleeve has a stop washer for engaging a main return spring . Main return spring is between stop washer and proximal end of handle case and biases inner sleeve towards distal end of handle case .

Upon rearward motion distal to proximal of the inner sleeve ratchet pawl is lifted by pawl pin to release pawl from first ratchet tooth and move it to the second ratchet tooth . The axial movement of ratchet pawl is then limited by pawl pin . Pawl spring is now extended and biases ratchet pawl to remain engaged with second ratchet step . The motion of inner sleeve also rotates clutch rotational lever pulling clutch to the proximal direction to release the immobilized condition. Inner sleeve spring and main return spring are now compressed.

Once medicament dose has been delivered medicament delivery device may be reset to prepare for next medicament delivery. Device is reset by allowing lever to move in the direction of the arrow in . Inner sleeve moves towards distal end of handle case due to the force exerted by the relaxation of main return spring . Since ratchet which is engaged with the proximal end of SSM is no longer in the immobilized condition ratchet and SSM move with inner sleeve towards distal end of handle case . As a result distal end of barrel moves distally from distal end of housing . Ratchet pawl returns to its starting position its axial movement limited by pawl pin . Pawl spring also relaxes to its starting position. Device is now reset for delivery of next dose of medicament.

Actuator is made with a handle case and handle . All components of actuator may be made from stainless steel but could be made of any material that can be sterilized. Handle case and handle may be formed as two pieces that can be screwed together. Handle case has a proximal portion and a distal portion having means for attaching cartridge . One suitable means for attaching the cartridge is a tube tip which is positioned at the distal portion of the actuator device and may be attached to the handle by threading it onto handle case . The tube tip may have an undercut on its inner surface to retain cartridge .

In this second embodiment actuator converts a rotational motion to linear motion. Actuator has a trigger located on the bottom surface near distal portion of handle case . Trigger has a finger manipulating portion connection pin located in trigger slot rotation pin fixing trigger to handle case trigger spring which biases trigger towards distal portion of handle case and trigger stop . Within handle case is a cannulated inner sleeve having a proximal portion a tapered distal portion for interfacing inner sleeve with barrel extension of barrel . Trigger is engaged with inner sleeve via connection pin .

Within the cannulation of inner sleeve is inner sleeve spring and inner ratchet with at least one step three steps shown in . The inner sleeve contains a recess for connecting a ratchet pawl to the inner sleeve. The inner sleeve also contains a slot for maintaining the orientation between the pawl and the ratchet via a pin. A pawl spring connects ratchet pawl to a pin in handle case . Pawl spring biases ratchet pawl to remain engaged with first ratchet step . The axial movement of ratchet pawl is limited by pawl pin . The distal end of inner ratchet is engaged with the proximal end of substantially stationary member SSM . Inner sleeve spring is located within the cannulation of inner sleeve surrounding distal portion of inner ratchet and biasing the inner ratchet towards the proximal end of handle case .

The central portion of the ratchet is placed in a clutch . The clutch pivots about a pin located on the handle case to create an immobilized condition which controls the motion of the ratchet only. A clutch rotational lever rotates around a pin mounted in handle case . The clutch rotational lever is connected to the clutch via a spring and controls the immobilized condition of clutch .

Upon rearward motion distal to proximal of the inner sleeve ratchet pawl is lifted by pawl pin to release the pawl foot from first ratchet tooth and move it to the second ratchet tooth . The axial movement of ratchet pawl is then limited by pawl pin . Pawl spring is now extended and biases ratchet pawl to remain engaged with second ratchet step . The motion of inner sleeve also rotates clutch rotational lever pulling clutch to the proximal direction to release the immobilized condition. Inner sleeve spring is compressed and trigger spring is elongated. Rearward motion distal to proximal of trigger is limited by trigger stop .

Once medicament dose has been delivered medicament delivery device may be reset to prepare for next medicament delivery. Device is reset by releasing trigger which moves in the direction of the arrow in . Inner sleeve moves towards distal end of handle case due to the force exerted by the relaxation of trigger spring . Since ratchet which is engaged with the proximal end of SSM is no longer in the immobilized condition ratchet and SSM move with inner sleeve towards distal end of handle case . As a result distal end of barrel moves distally from distal end of housing . Ratchet pawl returns to its starting position its axial movement limited by pawl pin . Pawl spring also relaxes to its starting position. Device is now reset for delivery of next dose of medicament.

Actuator is made with a handle case and handle . All components of actuator may be made from stainless steel but could be made of any material that can be sterilized. Handle case and handle may be formed as two pieces that can be screwed together. Handle case has a proximal portion and a distal portion having means for attaching cartridge . One suitable means for attaching the cartridge is a tube tip which is positioned at the distal portion of the actuator device and may be attached to the handle by threading it onto handle case . The tube tip may have an undercut on its inner surface to retain cartridge .

In this third embodiment actuator converts a linear trigger motion to a proximal to distal linear motion. Actuator has a linear displacement motor located above handle . Motor has a displacement rod trigger and power source . In this embodiment power source is a pair of batteries. It is to be understood that motor trigger and power source are connected with wires not shown so that pressing trigger actuates motor allowing movement of displacement rod .

Also within handle case is a cannulated inner sleeve having a proximal portion a tapered distal portion for interfacing inner sleeve with barrel extension of barrel . Displacement rod is engaged with inner sleeve via connection pin .

Within the cannulation of inner sleeve is inner sleeve spring and inner ratchet with at least one step three steps shown in . The inner sleeve contains a recess for connecting a ratchet pawl to the inner sleeve. The inner sleeve also contains a slot for maintaining the orientation between the pawl and the ratchet via a pin. A pawl spring connects ratchet pawl to a pin in handle case . Pawl spring biases ratchet pawl to remain engaged with first ratchet step . The axial movement of ratchet pawl is limited by pawl pin . The distal end of inner ratchet is engaged with the proximal end of substantially stationary member SSM . Inner sleeve spring is located within the cannulation of inner sleeve surrounding distal portion of inner ratchet and biasing the inner ratchet towards the proximal end of handle case .

The proximal portion of the ratchet is placed in a clutch . The clutch pivots about a pin located on the handle case to create an immobilized condition which controls the motion of the ratchet only. A clutch rotational lever rotates around a pin mounted in handle case . The clutch rotational lever is connected to the clutch via a spring and controls the immobilized condition of clutch .

Upon rearward motion distal to proximal of the inner sleeve ratchet pawl is lifted by pawl pin to release the pawl foot from first ratchet tooth and move it to the second ratchet tooth. The axial movement of ratchet pawl is then limited by pawl pin . Pawl spring is now extended and biases ratchet pawl to remain engaged with second ratchet step . The motion of inner sleeve also rotates clutch rotational lever pulling clutch to the proximal direction to release the immobilized condition. At this point inner sleeve spring is compressed.

Once medicament dose has been delivered medicament delivery device may be reset to prepare for next medicament delivery. Though not shown device is reset by reversing movement of displacement rod . Inner sleeve moves towards distal end of handle case . Since ratchet which is engaged with the proximal end of SSM is no longer in the immobilized condition ratchet and SSM move with inner sleeve towards distal end of handle case . As a result distal end of barrel moves distally from distal end of housing . Ratchet pawl returns to its starting position its axial movement limited by pawl pin . Pawl spring also relaxes to its starting position. Device is now reset for delivery of next dose of medicament.

Also included in this disclosure is a fourth embodiment of actuator for medicament delivery according to the present invention. This embodiment is shown in and . In this embodiment actuator which provides means for activating the means for retracting retractable barrel of cartridge as described in converts a linear trigger motion to a proximal to distal linear motion. Actuator is made with a handle case and trigger . Handle case has a proximal portion and a distal portion . Trigger has ring components and trigger block spring plate and spring . Ring components and are affixed to trigger block while spring is fixed between spring plate and distal end of handle case .

Also within handle case is a cannulated inner sleeve having a proximal portion a tapered distal portion for interfacing inner sleeve with retractable chamber of cartridge not shown . Within the cannulation of inner sleeve is inner ratchet with at least one step three steps shown in . The inner sleeve contains a recess for connecting a ratchet pawl to the inner sleeve. The inner sleeve also contains a slot for maintaining the orientation between the pawl and the ratchet. A pawl pin to handle case . Pawl pin biases ratchet pawl to remain engaged with first ratchet step . The distal end of inner ratchet is engaged with the proximal end of substantially stationary member SSM of cartridge not shown .

First pulley and second pulley are mounted on inner sleeve and trigger block respectively. Belt is attached to spring plate and ring component and overlaps pulleys and . The proximal portion of inner ratchet is placed in a clutch . The clutch creates an immobilized condition which controlled the motion of the ratchet only.

Prior to delivery of a first dose of the medicament clutch is in the immobilized condition preventing the movement of ratchet . A dose of medicament is delivered by pressing trigger from the proximal portion towards the distal portion of handle case . This proximal to distal motion of trigger is converted to a distal to proximal rearward motion of inner sleeve by the actions of pulleys and . As in all other embodiments the rearward motion of inner sleeve results in a rearward motion of the barrel of the medicament cartridge. Since ratchet which is engaged with the proximal end of SSM is in the immobilized condition ratchet and SSM remain in a relative stationary position with respect to the barrel. The retracting motion of the barrel releases the medicament from the distal opening of the barrel delivering the medicament to the delivery site.

Also included in this disclosure is a fifth embodiment of actuator for medicament delivery according to the present invention. This embodiment is shown in and . The figures show device comprised of cartridge as described in and fifth embodiment actuator which provides means for activating the means for retracting retractable barrel .

Actuator is made with a handle case . The handle case as well as all other components of actuator may be made from stainless steel but could be made of any material that can be sterilized. Handle case may be formed as 2 pieces that can be screwed together and is designed to provide means for gripping the actuator. Handle case has a proximal end and a distal end . Distal end has means for attaching cartridge . One suitable means for attaching the cartridge is a tube tip that is positioned at the distal end of the actuator device and may be attached to the handle by threading it onto handle case . The tube tip may have an undercut on its inner surface to retain cartridge .

In this embodiment actuator converts a linear trigger motion to a proximal to distal linear motion. Actuator has trigger button located on the upper surface at distal end of handle case . Trigger button has a catch a flexure spring and a catch spring . Within handle case is a cannulated inner sleeve having a proximal portion a tapered distal portion for interfacing inner sleeve with barrel extension of barrel and a recess for engaging catch of trigger button .

Within the cannulation of inner sleeve is inner ratchet with at least one step three steps shown in . Catch spring biases catch to remain engaged with first ratchet step . The distal end of inner ratchet is engaged with the proximal end of stationary substantially stationary member SSM .

Inner ratchet is placed in a clutch . Clutch springs create an immobilized condition for clutch which controls the motion of the ratchet only. The proximal end of inner ratchet has a radial spring engaging inner ratchet with thumb button . Thumb button is cannulated and inner ratchet return spring is located in the cannulation of thumb button . Inner ratchet return spring biases inner ratchet towards distal end of handle case .

A dose of medicament is delivered in two steps. In the first step thumb button is pressed towards the distal end of handle case . Since inner ratchet is engaged with thumb button inner ratchet moves towards the distal end of handle case . Likewise inner sleeve which is engaged with inner ratchet moves towards the distal end of handle case . Also barrel which is engaged with inner sleeve moves towards the distal end of housing . Cartridge spring is compressed creating a bias for moving barrel and inner sleeve towards the proximal end of handle case . Clutch springs are elongated creating an immobilized condition for clutch .

In the second step trigger button is depressed into handle case . Catch spring is compressed disengaging catch from first ratchet step . Catch passes form first to second ratchet step . Cartridge spring now elongates moving barrel and inner sleeve towards the proximal end of handle case . Since clutch is in the immobilized condition inner ratchet and SSM remain in a relative stationary position with respect to barrel as barrel moves towards proximal end of handle case . The retracting motion of barrel releases medicament from distal opening of barrel delivering the medicament to the delivery site.

Also included in this disclosure is a sixth embodiment of actuator for medicament delivery according to the present invention. This embodiment is shown in through . The figures show device comprised of cartridge as described in and sixth embodiment actuator which provides means for activating the means for retracting retractable barrel . shows optional retaining cap disposed on distal tip to protect the medicament from contamination.

Actuator is made with an outer handle case . The handle case as well as all other components of actuator may be made from stainless steel but could be made of any material that can be sterilized. Handle case may be formed as two pieces that can be screwed together and is designed to provide means for gripping the actuator. Handle case has a proximal end and a distal end . Distal end has means for attaching cartridge . One suitable means for attaching the cartridge is a tube tip that is positioned at the distal end of the actuator device and may be attached to the handle by threading it onto handle case . The tube tip may have an undercut on its inner surface to retain cartridge .

In this embodiment actuator converts a linear trigger motion to a proximal to distal linear motion. Actuator has trigger button located on the upper surface at distal end of handle case . Trigger button has a flexure spring for biasing trigger button towards the upper surface of handle case . Within handle case is a catch and a catch spring as well as a cannulated inner sleeve having a proximal portion a tapered distal portion for interfacing inner sleeve with barrel extension of barrel and a recess for engaging catch .

Within the cannulation of inner sleeve is inner sleeve spring and inner ratchet with at least one step three steps shown in through . Catch spring biases catch to remain engaged with first ratchet step . Distal end of inner ratchet is engaged with the proximal end of substantially stationary member SSM when device is operational.

Inner sleeve spring is located within the cannulation of inner sleeve surrounding the distal portion of inner ratchet and biasing inner ratchet towards the proximal end of handle case . Inner sleeve stop prevents inner sleeve from progressing towards the proximal end of handle case .

Inner ratchet is placed in a clutch . Clutch springs create an immobilized condition for clutch which controls the motion of the ratchet only. Inner ratchet catch is attached to inner ratchet and is sized to prevent inner ratchet from being removed from handle case . Inner ratchet return spring is located in handle case . Inner ratchet return spring is engaged with inner ratchet catch and biases inner ratchet towards distal end of handle case . Inner ratchet cap may be disposed on proximal end of inner ratchet to provide comfort for the user of device .

To complete the connection of actuator to cartridge inner ratchet is moved distally in the direction of SSM . This may be achieved by the user by holding handle case stationary in the palm of the hand and pressing on inner ratchet cap with the user s thumb. Since inner ratchet is engaged with thumb button inner ratchet moves towards the distal end of handle case . Likewise inner sleeve which is engaged with inner ratchet moves towards the distal end of handle case . Also barrel which is engaged with inner sleeve moves towards the distal end of housing . Cartridge spring and inner sleeve spring are compressed creating a bias for moving barrel and inner sleeve towards the proximal end of handle case . Clutch springs remain elongated creating an immobilized condition for clutch .

To deliver a first dose of medicament trigger button is depressed into handle case . As shown in catch spring is compressed disengaging catch from first ratchet step . Catch passes from first to second ratchet step . As shown in cartridge spring and inner sleeve spring now elongate moving barrel inner sleeve catch and catch spring towards the proximal end of handle case . Since clutch is in the immobilized condition inner ratchet and SSM remain in a relative stationary position with respect to barrel as barrel moves towards proximal end of handle case . The retracting motion of barrel releases medicament from distal opening of barrel delivering the first dose of medicament to the delivery site.

To reset device for delivery of a second dose of medicament user holds handle case stationary in the palm of the hand and presses on inner ratchet cap with the user s thumb. Inner ratchet engaged with thumb button moves towards the distal end of handle case . Likewise inner sleeve engaged with inner ratchet moves towards the distal end of handle case . Finally barrel engaged with inner sleeve moves towards the distal end of housing . Cartridge spring and inner sleeve spring are compressed creating a bias for moving barrel and inner sleeve towards the proximal end of handle case . Clutch springs are elongated creating an immobilized condition for clutch .

To deliver a second dose of medicament trigger button is depressed into handle case . As shown in catch spring is compressed disengaging catch from second ratchet step . Catch passes from second to third ratchet step . As shown in cartridge spring and inner sleeve spring now elongate moving barrel inner sleeve catch and catch spring towards the proximal end of handle case . Since clutch is in the immobilized condition inner ratchet and SSM remain in a relative stationary position with respect to barrel as barrel moves towards proximal end of handle case . The retracting motion of barrel releases medicament from distal opening of barrel delivering the second dose of medicament to the delivery site.

To reset device for delivery of a third dose of medicament user holds handle case stationary in the palm of the hand and presses on inner ratchet cap with the user s thumb. Inner ratchet engaged with thumb button moves towards the distal end of handle case . Likewise inner sleeve engaged with inner ratchet moves towards the distal end of handle case . Finally barrel engaged with inner sleeve moves towards the distal end of housing . Cartridge spring and inner sleeve spring are compressed creating a bias for moving barrel and inner sleeve towards the proximal end of handle case . Clutch springs remain elongated creating an immobilized condition for clutch .

To deliver a third dose of medicament trigger button is depressed into handle case . As shown in catch spring is compressed disengaging catch from third ratchet step . As shown in cartridge spring and inner sleeve spring now elongate moving barrel inner sleeve catch and catch spring towards the proximal end of handle case . Since clutch is in the immobilized condition inner ratchet and SSM remain in a relative stationary position with respect to barrel as barrel moves towards proximal end of handle case . The retracting motion of barrel releases medicament from distal opening of barrel delivering the third dose of medicament to the delivery site.

Also included in this disclosure is a seventh embodiment of actuator for medicament delivery according to the present invention. This embodiment is shown in through . The figures show device comprised of cartridge as described in and seventh embodiment actuator which provides means for activating the means for retracting retractable barrel . shows optional retaining cap disposed on distal tip to protect the medicament from contamination.

Actuator is made with an outer handle case . The handle case as well as all other components of actuator may be made from stainless steel but could be made of any material that can be sterilized. Handle case may be formed as two pieces that can be screwed together and is designed to provide means for gripping the actuator. Handle case has a proximal end and a distal end . Distal end has means for attaching cartridge . One suitable means for attaching the cartridge is a tube tip that is positioned at the distal end of the actuator device and may be attached to the handle by threading it onto handle case . The tube tip may have an undercut on its inner surface to retain cartridge .

In this embodiment actuator converts a linear trigger motion to a proximal to distal linear motion. Actuator has trigger button located on the upper surface at distal end of handle case . Trigger button has a flexure spring for biasing trigger button towards the upper surface of handle case . Within handle case is a catch and a catch spring as well as a cannulated inner sleeve having a proximal portion a tapered distal portion for interfacing inner sleeve with barrel extension of barrel and a recess for engaging catch .

Within the cannulation of inner sleeve is inner ratchet with at least one catch step three steps shown in through . Catch spring biases catch to remain engaged with first catch step . Distal end of inner ratchet is engaged with the proximal end of rod which in turn is engaged with substantially stationary member SSM when device is operational.

Spring is engaged with the tapered distal portion of inner sleeve and biases inner sleeve towards the proximal end of handle case . Inner sleeve stop prevents inner sleeve from progressing towards the proximal end of handle case .

Inner ratchet is disposed in a ratchet guide and a gate . Gate spring biases gate to remain engaged with inner ratchet distal to first gate step preventing distal to proximal movement of inner ratchet . Inner ratchet is disposed in cannulation of plunger . Plunger catch is attached to plunger and is sized to prevent inner ratchet from being removed from handle case . Inner ratchet return spring is located in handle case . Inner ratchet return spring is engaged with plunger catch and biases inner ratchet towards distal end of handle case .

To complete the connection of actuator to cartridge inner ratchet is moved distally. This may be achieved by the user by holding handle case stationary in the palm of the hand and pressing on plunger with the user s thumb. Since inner ratchet is engaged with plunger inner ratchet moves towards the distal end of handle case . Likewise inner sleeve which is engaged with inner ratchet moves towards the distal end of handle case . Also barrel which is engaged with inner sleeve moves towards the distal end of housing . Cartridge spring is compressed creating a bias for moving barrel and inner sleeve towards the proximal end of handle case . As inner ratchet moves towards the distal end of handle case gate passes to first gate step . Gate spring remains elongated biasing gate to remain engaged with first gate step preventing distal to proximal movement of inner ratchet .

To deliver a first dose of medicament trigger button is depressed into handle case . Catch spring is compressed disengaging catch from first ratchet step . Catch passes from first to second ratchet step . Cartridge spring elongates moving barrel inner sleeve catch and catch spring towards the proximal end of handle case . Since inner ratchet is not able to move in a distal to proximal direction inner ratchet and SSM remain in a relative stationary position with respect to barrel as barrel moves towards proximal end of handle case . The retracting motion of barrel releases medicament from distal opening of barrel delivering the first dose of medicament to the delivery site.

As shown in cartridge spring is in an elongated state distal portion of inner ratchet is engaged with the proximal end of rod which in turn is engaged with SSM . Trigger button is no longer aligned with catch and catch spring and inner ratchet return spring is partially compressed. Catch is engaged with second ratchet step and inner sleeve and is held in that position by catch spring . Catch spring and flexural spring also bias trigger button radially outward from handle case . Gate spring remains elongated gate remains engaged with first gate step and inner ratchet is not able to move in a distal to proximal direction.

To reset device for delivery of a second dose of medicament user holds handle case stationary in the palm of the hand and presses on plunger with the user s thumb. Inner ratchet engaged with plunger moves towards the distal end of handle case . Likewise inner sleeve engaged with inner ratchet moves towards the distal end of handle case . Finally barrel engaged with inner sleeve moves towards the distal end of housing . Cartridge spring is compressed creating a bias for moving barrel and inner sleeve towards the proximal end of handle case . As inner ratchet moves towards the distal end of handle case gate passes from first to second gate step . Gate spring remains elongated biasing gate to remain engaged with second gate step preventing distal to proximal movement of inner ratchet .

To deliver a second dose of medicament trigger button is depressed into handle case . Catch spring is compressed disengaging catch from second ratchet step . Catch passes from second to third catch step . Cartridge spring elongates moving barrel inner sleeve catch and catch spring towards the proximal end of handle case . Since inner ratchet is not able to move in a distal to proximal direction inner ratchet and SSM remain in a relative stationary position with respect to barrel as barrel moves towards proximal end of handle case . The retracting motion of barrel releases medicament from distal opening of barrel delivering the second dose of medicament to the delivery site.

As shown in cartridge spring is in an elongated state distal portion of inner ratchet is engaged with the proximal end of rod which in turn is engaged with SSM . Trigger button is no longer aligned with catch and catch spring and inner ratchet return spring is more compressed than after delivery of first dose. Catch is engaged with third ratchet step and inner sleeve and is held in that position by catch spring . Catch spring and flexural spring also bias trigger button radially outward from handle case . Gate spring remains elongated gate remains engaged with second gate step and inner ratchet is not able to move in a distal to proximal direction.

