---

title: System and method for determining mobile device capabilities
abstract: Methodologies and system functionality are provided to determine mobile device capabilities and/or configuration setting and user abilities and/or inclinations as a precursor to or as part of the management, delivery and/or assessment of the efficacy of promotional material. The determination of the mobile device capabilities and/or configuration settings and user abilities and/or inclinations may be performed, for example, when provisioning a new service or after such a service has been utilized by a mobile device user. Further, such a determination may be performed in connection with a mobile device service that provides free or subsidized service to mobile device users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07606562&OS=07606562&RS=07606562
owner: CVON Innovations Limited
number: 07606562
owner_city: London
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20080125
---
This application is a U.S. Patent Application that relies for priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 on Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 943 224 filed on Jun. 11 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates in general to marketing and advertising campaigns directed to mobile device users. In particular the invention relates to methods systems and software for determining mobile device capabilities and user abilities thereby improving management delivery and assessment of the efficacy of marketing and advertising campaign content distribution as specified in the independent claims.

Ensuring that a target audience is being effectively exposed to advertising material is a key issue of any advertising or marketing activity whether it is in the field of direct marketing or brand advertising. This problem is also suffered by mobile marketing which involves and relates to marketing and advertising via mobile devices e.g. phones smart phones and Personal Data Assistants PDAs or any other computer device configured to be able to receive or send data wirelessly receiving promotional material i.e. marketing and or advertising content in the form of e.g. text audio video or some combination thereof associated with a particular product service or combination thereof.

Mobile marketing enables advertisers to directly reach individual consumers in a targeted way. This is because the nature of mobile media is personal in that mobile devices are generally used by a particular individual rather than a group of individuals. Further mobile media is by definition mobile which offers a transportable mechanism for exposing potential consumers to promotional material. Moreover because mobile media is always on advertisers are not constrained by the need to make a connection in order to deliver promotional material to a user s device because a connection is always established with a user s mobile device provided the mobile device is in range of an available communication network . As an additional benefit of mobile media as an advertising mechanism mobile media enables groups of individuals to form wherein the group members communicate actively with each other. As a result these characteristics combined with social networks based marketing approach of the Internet may form a very powerful base to execute marketing strategies.

However there is a cost associated with this targeted distribution of promotional material. Typically the cost is associated with delivery of a direct advertisement message to a targeted individual i.e. someone who has the attributes identified in an advertising campaign by direct marketing or media space in brand advertising. Therefore an advertiser will attempt to ensure that promotional material is distributed effectively to ensure that the targeted individual is exposed to the promotional material.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of various invention embodiments. The summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is neither intended to identify key or critical elements of the invention nor to delineate the scope of the invention. The following summary merely presents some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description below.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention determination of mobile device capabilities and user abilities are performed as a precursor to or as part of the management delivery and or assessment of the efficacy of promotional material as specified in the independent claims. This is achieved by a combination of features recited in each independent claim. Accordingly dependent claims prescribe further detailed implementations of the present invention.

In the following description of various invention embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention.

Moreover it should be understood that various connections are set forth between elements in the following description however these connections in general and unless otherwise specified may be either direct or indirect either permanent or transitory and either dedicated or shared and that this specification is not intended to be limiting in this respect.

In general mobile marketing and advertising activities can be divided into four categories mobile Customer Relation Management CRM mobile marketing mobile advertising and mobile direct advertising. Mobile CRM involves a combination mobile advertising mobile marketing and mobile direct marking each explained herein in a manner that establishes a long term engaging relationship between the customer and the promoting company.

Mobile marketing involves the systematic planning implementation and control of a mix of business activities intended to bring together buyers and sellers for the mutually advantageous exchange or transfer of products or services where the primary point of contact with the potential consumer is via their mobile device. To the contrary mobile advertising may be thought of more narrowly as the paid public non personal announcement of a persuasive message by an identified sponsor i.e. an advertiser the non personal presentation or promotion by a firm of its products to its existing and potential customers where such communication is delivered to a mobile phone or other mobile device. Examples of mobile advertising would include Wireless Application Protocol WAP and Web banner advertisements mobile search advertising mobile video bumpers and interstitial advertisements.

Mobile direct marketing differs from mobile marketing typically in that direct marketing involves promotional material being delivered to a mobile device on an individual basis. Accordingly examples of mobile direct marketing include the sending of Short Messaging Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS or WAP push messages Bluetooth messaging and other interrupt based marketing to mobile devices. Such direct marketing often uses text and picture messaging. MMS also known as picture messaging is a widely used service with mobile phone users. Picture messaging refers to the sending of an image e.g. a photograph produced by a mobile phone to another mobile phone or to a server or electronic mail account. Conventionally the images are sent in some predetermined picture format e.g. Joint Picture Expert Group JPEG . In addition to pictures MMS messages might compose of video audio hypertext etc.

Direct marketing be it mobile Internet based or conventional generally utilizes consumer profile information to ensure that promotional material is designed to be effective with a particular type of consumer and is sent to that type of consumer. Accordingly as a marketing or advertising campaign is formulated an advertiser will identify what particular technological capabilities the target audience will have e.g. mobile phone having MMS capability a mobile phone user with some degree of proficiency with MMS etc.

One challenge faced by mobile marketing and advertising campaigns is implementing conventional marketing and advertising principals in the technologically unique advertising channel of mobile media. Mobile devices capabilities to receive and present various types of content e.g. MMS messages vary from device to device model to model and brand to brand due to different technical capabilities memory and software and firmware configurations. In addition the abilities of consumers to use mobile device functionality and consumers interest in using mobile device functionality vary.

These variations lead to problems of determining what type of promotional material should be sent to a target audience and in what format e.g. MMS messages WAP Push data etc. For example MMS enabled mobile devices enable subscribers to compose and send messages with one or more multimedia parts. Multimedia is media or content that uses multiple forms of information content and information processing e.g. text audio graphics animation video interactivity hypermedia etc. to inform entertain or persuade a user. The term rich media is synonymous with multimedia and therefore refers to data that can be represented through audio graphics image video and animation in addition to what may considered to be more traditional media e.g. text and graphics .

MMS enabled mobile devices enable subscribers to compose and send messages with one or more multimedia parts. Multimedia is media that uses multiple forms of information content and information processing e.g. text audio graphics animation video interactivity to inform entertain or persuade a user audience. The term rich media is synonymous with multimedia.

Multimedia means that computer info can be represented through audio graphics image video and animation in addition to traditional media text and graphics . Hypermedia can be considered one particular multimedia application. Mobile devices with built in or attached cameras or with built in MP3 players are very likely to also have a MMS Messaging Client MMSC which is a software program that interacts with the mobile device user to compose address send receive and view MMS messages.

However it should be understood that one problem faced by advertisers in mobile marketing is that multimedia content created for one type or brand of mobile device may not be entirely compatible with the capabilities of a user s mobile device. In MMS architecture for example generally the recipient MMSC is responsible for providing for content adaptation functionality e.g. image resizing audio codec transcoding etc. if this feature is enabled by a mobile network operator. When content adaptation is supported by the network operator its MMS subscribers enjoy compatibility with a larger network of MMS users than would otherwise be available.

Although conventional MMS specifications do not include distribution lists or methods by which large numbers of recipients can be conveniently addressed in 3GPP large distribution lists may be transferred to the MMSC using File Transfer Protocol FTP . However if a user s mobile device receives content including an MPEG 4 video in Audio Video Interleave AVI format but the user s mobile device does not support that format then the content is of no value to the user.

Further if that content is sent by an advertiser or marketing organization the promotional material included in the content is ineffective because it cannot be output to the user. As a result advertising and marketing to mobile device users is more effective if it can be determined what the user s mobile device capabilities are and or the user s ability to use those capabilities. For example to ensure a high quality experience for a mobile device user and ensure that promotional material is output the user for maximum impact it is useful to ensure that mobile device capabilities are known and configuration settings are set appropriately. Thus a determination may be made regarding the output capabilities of the mobile device e.g. a display type of a mobile phone. For example there is value in determining whether a mobile device display is a color display the size of the display the resolution of the display the number of colors supported in the display the number of pixels included in the display etc. Differences in one or more of the those display features can lead to situations in which a received image is not readable by a user on the mobile device colors may be different than in the original image and or the overall user experience of an advertisement may be poor due to such difficulties. Such deficiencies may occur even when various conventional settings optimization or intelligent adaptation technologies are used on the mobile device e.g. intelligently recognizing that data has a particular format and must be output accordingly or provided with the promotional material.

From an advertiser s point of view these types of deficiencies are particularly problematic because such poor user experiences may result in negative feelings beings associated with an advertised product service. In addition there might be several different formats of the pictures such as GIF animated GIFS JPEG PGP etc to mention few. Some of the terminal might show the different formats in different ways.

Conventionally there are commercial solutions which can be used to classify phone models based on their International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI code see for example ETSI TS 100 508 V7.2.0 2000 07 . In accordance with these solutions a network operator or third party maintains a list of mobile devices that have the capability to support use of a particular service e.g. MMS. As a result the network operator or a third party may maintain intermediate server systems that perform MMS content adaptation processes in order to modify content to be appropriate to a particular subset of mobile devices. For example if mobile devices used by a subset of a target audience lack the capability to receive MMS content an advertiser may be able to send promotional material to that subset of mobile devices via an intermediate server that removes the MMS content or translates the content into SMS or Enhanced Messaging Service EMS .

Such solutions may utilize Wireless Application Protocol specification WAP 248 UAPROF 20011020 sometimes known as The User Agent Profile specification. This specification provides a paradigm for capturing classes of device capabilities and preference information. These classes include but are not restricted to the hardware and software characteristics of the mobile device as well as information about the network to which the mobile device is connected. Thus the User Agent Profile may contain information that may be used for content formatting purposes.

However access to a User Agent Profile may be controlled by a network operator rather than an advertiser or advertising firm. As a result advertisers and advertising firms may be prohibited from using the information included in the User Agent Profile except at the discretion of the network operator.

Accordingly functionality and method operations that provide information regarding mobile device capabilities mobile device user abilities preferences and settings may be of particular to utility to advertisers advertising firms and other interested parties to ensure that delivered promotional material is appropriate.

Additionally even if a mobile device may in theory be capable of providing functionality that supports output of particular promotional material e.g. color etc. the mobile device may not be working correctly e.g. display is partly broken or configured appropriately. Further merely knowing that a mobile device has functionality based on its model number does not provide a solution to situations where the mobile device user may not be capable of fully appreciating output promotional material for example the mobile device user may be color blind e.g. red green and therefore user may have difficulties to see advertisements properly or hearing impaired with difficulties of listening audio advertisements. Similarly the user may simply lack the ability to effectively use certain functionality of their mobile device or properly set configuration settings to effectively view advertisements effectively.

Additionally the mobile device could output advertisements or messages in audio and or video format. Capability of mobile device to output different video frame rates resolutions and capability to output audio as mono stereo or high fidelity HiFi may affect efficiency of advertisement campaign. There might in addition to be several different content formats for video and audio such and Microsoft MediaPlayer format and Real networks real format or iTunes audio format and MP3 format to mention few.

A further problem for content providers and advertisers targeting mobile device users is that few mobile network operators offer content providers or advertisers direct connectivity to the network operators MMSCs. As a result many content providers and advertisers have conventionally used WAP push as the only method available to deliver rich content to mobile devices. WAP push enables rich content to be delivered to a handset by specifying the Universal Resource Location URL via binary SMS of a pre compiled MMS hosted on a content provider s web server. However a downside of WAP push is that from a billing perspective this content is typically billed at data rates rather than as an MMS. These charges can be significant and result in consumers being charged at rates that they were not expecting.

Thus in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention methodologies and components may be provided to enable a determination of whether a mobile device can receive and output MMS messages WAP push messages or both. However it should be appreciated that at least one embodiment of the invention may be used to determine a mobile device capability and or mobile device user s ability to use not only MMS but also or alternatively Enhanced Messaging Service EMS WAP Push or other mechanisms and methodologies for delivering rich content including e.g. content download content downloads using Internet protocol scheduled content download special text formatting such as bold or color animations pictures icons sound effects and special ring tones to user audience mobile devices. As should be understood from the provided description of various invention embodiments at least one embodiment of the invention enables determination of mobile device capabilities and user abilities and inclinations as a precursor to or as part of the management delivery and or assessment of the efficacy of promotional material.

With this understanding of the utility of embodiments of the invention in mind a description of the architecture and operation of various invention embodiments is now provided. illustrates an advertising environment wherein embodiments of the invention may be utilized. Embodiments of the invention may be utilized in environment to provide improved mobile marketing and or advertising campaign efficacy. For example the advertising environment may include one or more networks enabling free or subsidized phone services in exchange for subscribers viewing a number of targeted advertisements that are relevant to the subscriber.

As illustrated in an advertiser which may be an advertiser advertising firm media agency operator consultancy company or other similar entity interested in implementing managing or determining the efficacy of a marketing or advertising campaign may access the advertisement management system illustrated in further detail in in order to manage and control distribution of promotional material in connection with one or more marketing or advertising campaigns.

The advertiser may reserve program and or book an advertisement campaign via a user interface explained further with reference to and implemented as for example a web interface for advertisement management system . As part of that advertising campaign promotional material is distributed to a plurality of mobile devices for output to the mobile device users. The promotional material for the campaign may include information in form of data text pictures audio video HyperText Markup Language HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML eXensible HyperText Markup Language XHTML to advertisement management system . The advertiser may also indicate instructions for the timing of sending promotional material details regarding which users should receive the promotional material e.g. characteristics of mobile device users included in a target group or groups for the advertising campaign in which format e.g. SMS MMS WAP Push Web pages digital object etc. a target price level for the advertising campaign a target feedback level demographics of the target audience duration of the advertisement campaign etc.

The advertisement management system can be operationally coupled to the Value Added Service VAS GateWay GW which can be used to execute the campaign and deliver information about the campaign back to the advertisement management system . As such the VAS GW may be implemented in whole or in part using one or more intermediate servers between the advertisement management system or with the system and the one or more communication networks . Alternatively the VAS GW may be implemented in combination with the advertisement management system .

The mobile device query system may be configured to receive information for use in formulating one or more mobile device queries which when responded to by a mobile device user would provide an indication of the functionality of the user s mobile device. For instance if promotional material content is to be delivered to mobile device users via MMS the mobile device query system may be configured to work in combination with VAS GW to send one or more queries to mobile devices e.g. mobile devices to determine whether those devices have the capability to receive and output messages using MMS. This may be done by sending one or more mobile devices a query via MMS. If the mobile devices have the capability then a user of the device may respond to the query thereby confirming MMS service functionality for the user s mobile device. Further receipt of a response to such a query indicates that the user has 1 the ability to understand the output MMS message query and respond to that query and 2 is inclined to respond to such a query assuming that a response to a query is an indication that the user will respond to future queries .

Thus the mobile device query system is also operationally coupled to the VAS GW and can be used to formulate and direct delivery of one or mobile device queries to mobile device users via the VAS GW . Likewise the VAS GW may be implemented in whole or in part using one or more intermediate servers between the mobile device query system and or the advertisement management system or with the system and the one or more communication networks . Alternatively the mobile device query system may be implemented in combination with the VAS GW and or the advertisement management system .

If the functionality of any of the mobile device query system advertisement management system or the VAS GW are implemented in combination in whole or in part it should be understood that the constituent components of each of these systems illustrated in may be combined to some extent.

The one or more communication networks may include any type of communications network including but not limited to a second Generation 2G network a 2.5 Generation network a third Generation 3G network utilizing Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Wideband Code Division Multiplex Access WCDMA Code Division Multiplex Access CDMA or Time Division Multiplex Access TDMA General Packet Radio Services GPRS Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS . Further the one or more communication networks may also include local area networks such as Wireless Local Area Networks WLAN BlueTooth BT and optionally utilize one or more other technologies such as WiMax WorldwideInteroperability for Microwave Access . Communication via the one or more communication networks may be implemented by broadcasting over cellular broadcasting over DVB H Digital Video Broadcasting Handhelds ISDB T Terrestrial Integrated Services Digital Broadcasting or DMB Digital Multimedia Broadcasting . Further optionally MediaFlo may be used to provide a connection and to deliver a service.

The one or more communication networks can also include any other type of network of interconnected devices or device networks e.g. interconnected computers or computer networks. Accordingly it should be understood that the one or more communication networks can also be a combination of a plurality of different types of networks forming one or more hybrid networks.

The one or more communication networks may include one or more Short Message Service Centers SMSC and or Multimedia Message Service Centers and or include the functionality thereof in either a centralized or distributed manner. Accordingly the one or more communication networks may enable transmission of SMS and MMS messages.

The one or more communication networks may further include one or more base stations wireless communications station installed at fixed locations and used to communicate as part of either a push to talk two way radio system or a wireless telephone system for example cellular CDMA or GSM.

A feedback analysis system may be configured to perform analysis of responses to one or more mobile device capability queries as well as or alternatively promotional material response rates of users. Further the feedback analysis system may be configured to generate one or more types of correlations between mobile device capability query responses and users mobile device capabilities and or settings and or user abilities and or preferences. Optionally the feedback analysis system may be configured to provide data resulting from those correlations or utilized by those correlations in mobile device User Agent Profiles.

Further the feedback analysis system may be coupled to the VAS GW to communicate feedback analysis data such as user device capability and user ability query responses and correlation data with the advertisement management system for use by the advertiser a network operator or other third party. However it should be understood that although not shown the feedback analysis system may be directly connected to the advertisement management system or the advertiser via one or more communication networks which optionally may include communication network s .

The one or more communication networks may also provide operational coupling between a billing system and the VAS GW or directly with the advertisement management system . It should be understood that the billing system may also be configured to receive information from the feedback analysis system and to determine cost of distribution of promotional material based on that received information. Once an advertiser has provided data indicating how promotional material is to be distributed e.g. the content and format of the promotional material in connection with a marketing and or advertising campaign the information may be used to deliver the promotional material via the one or more communication networks to one or more mobile devices as explained in greater detail in connection with .

Each of the mobile devices can be implemented as a mobile phone lap top PDA multimedia computer smart phone etc. Accordingly although not illustrated it should be understood that a mobile device may include a processor connected to a user interface computer readable memory and or other data storage and a display and or other output device. The mobile device may also include a battery speaker and at least one antenna. The user interface may further include a keypad touch screen voice interface one or more arrow keys joy stick data glove mouse roller ball touch screen or the like.

Accordingly computer executable instructions and data used by a processor included in a mobile device and other components within the mobile device may be stored in the computer readable memory included the mobile device. Further the memory may be implemented with any combination of read only memory modules or random access memory modules optionally including both volatile and nonvolatile memory. Further software may be stored within the memory and or storage to provide instructions to the mobile device s processor for enabling the mobile device to perform various functions. Alternatively some or all of the mobile device computer executable instructions may be embodied in hardware or firmware not illustrated .

As illustrated in the advertisement management system may include one or more processors operationally coupled to a user interface computer readable memory and or other data storage . Accordingly computer executable instructions and data used by the processor s and other components within the advertisement management system may be stored in the computer readable memory included the advertisement management system . Further software may be stored within the memory and or storage coupled to the processor s and user interface to provide instructions to the advertising management system components for enabling the system to perform various functions.

For example the advertising management system may be configured to receive promotional material and or information indicating the content of the promotional material e.g. audio video text graphics font type font color etc. and format of the promotional material e.g. MMS EMS SMS WAP push etc. associated with marketing and or advertising campaigns as well as other details regarding distribution of such promotional material via the user interface . Subsequently that information may be stored in one or more databases included in the computer readable memory and or other data storage . Accordingly the user interface may be configured to enable an advertiser or other entity to interact with components of the advertisement management system as well as other systems coupled to the system such as VAS GW feedback analysis system and billing system to manage and control distribution of promotional material and analysis of responses thereto as part of one or more marketing or advertising campaigns.

Accordingly the user interface may be implemented as a web based user interface provided by software stored in the memory or running on one or more servers associated with or supporting the advertisement management system . The memory may include one or more databases configured to store individual specific profile information e.g. in association with including or included in User Agent Profiles indicating one or more attributes of individuals to optionally receive promotional material. As an example of such profile information can indicate what formats e.g. SMS MMS WAP Push Web pages digital object etc. of promotional material a user s mobile device is capable of receiving and outputting historical data indicating the format content and or timing of queries to which the user has responded user profile demographics e.g. an individual s age gender zip code food preferences music preferences movie preferences etc. Additionally memory may include additional databases for storing promotional material archive information which may indicate what promotional material has been sent to specific individuals in the past the type of promotional material e.g. SMS couponing text to win campaign material and the individuals responses to the promotional material. Additionally the memory may also include one or more databases for storing actual promotional material and related distribution parameters for use in distributing the promotional material in connection with campaigns.

It should be understood that memory may include many databases that separately include for example profile attribute information promotional material archive data etc. or some combination or all of this information and data may be included in a single database.

As illustrated in the mobile device query system may include one or more processors operationally coupled to a user interface computer readable memory and or other data storage . Accordingly computer executable instructions and data used by the processor s and other components within the mobile device query system may be stored in the computer readable memory included the mobile device query system . Further software may be stored within the memory and or storage coupled to the processor s and user interface to provide instructions to the mobile device query system components for enabling the system to perform various functions.

For example the mobile device query system may be configured to receive information including data and specifications for formulating one or more mobile device queries and indicating the content and or nature of mobile device queries including whether queries are directed to determining mobile device capabilities and user abilities regarding e.g. audio video text graphics font type font color available memory resolution video play back capabilities number of colours screen size audio capabilities etc. and format capabilities e.g. MMS EMS SMS WAP push etc. via the user interface .

Subsequently that information may be stored in one or more databases included in the computer readable memory and or other data storage . Accordingly the user interface may be configured to enable an advertiser or other entity to interact with components of the mobile device query system as well as other systems coupled to the system such as the advertising management system VAS GW feedback analysis system and billing system .

Accordingly the user interface may be implemented as a web based user interface provided by software stored in the memory or running on one or more servers associated with or supporting the mobile device query system . Thus the mobile device query system may be configured to receive information for use in formulating one or more mobile device queries which when responded to by a mobile device user would provide an indication of the functionality of the user s mobile device. For instance if promotional material content is to be delivered to mobile device users via MMS the mobile device query system may be configured to work in combination with VAS GW or other equipment or components to send one or more queries to mobile devices e.g. mobile devices to determine whether those devices have the capability to receive and output messages using e.g. MMS this may be done by sending one or more mobile devices a query via MMS. If the mobile devices have the capability then a user of the device may respond to the query thereby confirming MMS service functionality for the user s mobile device.

Further receipt of a response to such a query may be presumed to indicate that the user has 1 the ability to understand the output MMS message query and respond to that query and 2 is inclined to respond to such a query assuming that a response to a query is an indication that the user will respond to future queries .

The memory may include one or more databases configured to store individual specific profile information e.g. User Agent Profiles indicating one or more attributes of individuals to optionally receive promotional material. As an example of such profile information can indicate what formats e.g. SMS MMS WAP Push Web pages digital object etc. of promotional material a user s mobile device is capable of receiving and outputting historical data indicating the format content and or timing of queries to which the user has responded user profile demographics e.g. an individual s age gender zip code food preferences music preferences movie preferences etc. 

Additionally memory may include additional databases for storing promotional material archive information which may indicate what promotional material has been sent to specific individuals in the past the type of promotional material e.g. SMS couponing text to win campaign material and the individuals responses to the promotional material. Additionally the memory may also include one or more databases for storing actual promotional material and related distribution parameters for use in distributing the promotional material in connection with campaigns.

It should be understood that memory may include many databases that separately include for example profile attribute information promotional material archive data etc. or some combination or all of this information and data may be included in a single database.

As illustrated in the feedback analysis system may include one or more processors and computer readable memory and or other data storage . Accordingly computer executable instructions and data used by the processor and other components within the feedback analysis system may be stored in the computer readable memory included the feedback analysis system . Further software may be stored within the memory and or storage to provide instructions to the feedback analysis system components for enabling the system to perform various functions.

For example the feedback analysis system may receive data indicating specific information regarding mobile device capability query responses and promotional material responses for mobile device users. Further the feedback analysis system may be configured to analyze those response data and determine correlations with profile attributes of the mobile device user. As a result the feedback analysis system may be configured to access data stored in the memory of the advertisement management system .

Subsequent to the analysis of the feedback analysis system the generated results may be transmitted back to the advertisement managements system for review by the advertiser in whole or in part. Additionally the billing system may have access to the feedback analysis system s generated data to prepare one or more billing statements indicating a cost of the distribution of the promotional material and optionally alternative costs associated with targeting other profile attributes e.g. those identified as effective at achieving high response rates .

As a result the feedback analysis system may also be configured to generate data from the comparison of response rates for the mobile device capability queries for one or more promotional material formats so as to provide advertisers with information indicating which formats are most effective at eliciting responses. For example by sending one or more mobile device queries to determine whether users are able to respond to promotional material in a particular format the advertising management system in combination with the feedback analysis system and VAS GW enables advertisers to better understand which format is most effective for communicating their promotional material. By providing this understanding without requiring the advertiser to pay for distributing their own promotional material the advertiser is provided with a value added service wherein the advertiser can effectively identify which format is most effective and or appropriate for the promotional material for their advertising campaign s .

Although not explained in detail above it should be understood that the mobile device query system advertisement management system the VAS GW feedback analysis system and billing system may each or all be implemented using one or more servers including software to coordinate implement analyze and report on the delivery of mobile device capability queries and of promotional material to targeted individuals based on parameters such as promotional material content type delivery time method target consumers target profiles etc. Thus in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention the advertiser may receive information regarding the delivery and response rate associated with promotional material distributed in particular formats e.g. an MMS message such information may include a delivery report and read reply report for each recipient of the distributed promotional material.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention a methodology and components are provided that facilitate or aid in the facilitation of setting mobile device parameters for receipt of content in one or more formats. Incorrect mobile device parameters can result in the inability to receive and output particular formats of content e.g. MMS. Moreover mobile device parameters may be set such that the mobile device is configured to receive and output MMS content but with poor quality.

Nevertheless service settings are sometimes preconfigured on mobile devices. Thus in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention the invention may be used to analyze present mobile device settings and provide customized setting adjustments for improving MMS content receipt and output. This may be performed by sending one or more mobile device capability queries to a mobile device user wherein each of the queries elicits a response that indicates information about the settings of the mobile device. Subsequently responses to the queries may be analyzed to determine whether the settings are optimized for receipt and output of particular formats of promotional material content e.g. MMS. This analysis may then be used to provide instruction to the mobile device user for reconfiguring the settings of the mobile device to improve receipt and or output performance.

Alternatively reconfiguration of the settings may be performed automatically or at the mobile device user s discretion via Over The Air programming OTA . OTA also known as Over The Air Service Provisioning OTASP Over The Air Provisioning OTAP or Over The Air Parameter Administration OTAPA is a method of distributing new software updates to mobile devices or provisioning mobile devices with the necessary settings with which to access services such as WAP or MMS. The OTA mechanism requires the existing software and hardware of the target device to support the feature namely the receipt and installation of new software received via the wireless network from the provider.

To provision parameters in a mobile device OTA the device needs to have a provisioning client capable of receiving processing and setting the parameters. For example a device management client in a device may be capable of receiving and provisioning applications or connectivity parameters.

In general the term OTA implies the use of wireless mechanisms to send provisioning data or update packages for firmware or software updates to a mobile device this is so that the user does not have to go to a store or a service centre to have applications provisioned parameters changed or firmware or software updated.

Further in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention it may be determined whether a user s device supports immediate and or deferred MMS delivery. Immediate or deferred delivery are mobile device dependent modes which means that the mobile device manufacturer can provide the mobile device in one mode or the other or let the user decide his her preference.

Turning to the operation of invention embodiments it should be understood that queries may be sent for the purposes of determining mobile device capability user ability and or user inclination in responding to such queries. Moreover it should be understood that the operations performed in connection with formulating and sending mobile queries and receiving and analyzing mobile query responses may be performed separately from each other or together and also may be performed prior to as part of or separate and apart from the distribution of promotional material associated with one or more advertising campaigns. illustrates operation of a methodology provided in connection with at least one invention embodiment wherein mobile device queries are sent to a plurality of mobile device users via their mobile devices to elicit responses from the mobile device users that indicate mobile device capability user ability and or inclination.

In operations begin at and control proceeds to wherein one or more mobile device queries is formulated to determine mobile device capability user ability and or user inclination in responding to such queries. This formulation may be performed by for example an advertising channel provider as part of research to determine how mobile device users respond to particular formats of promotional material. Alternatively this formulation may be performed with a particular advertiser advertising campaign or promotional material format in mind. As a result the material used to formulate the mobile device query ies will depend on the ultimate goal of the particular query ies being formulated e.g. determining whether mobile device users respond to MMS messages determining whether mobile device users device settings are optimized for a particular type of content to be sent by SMS etc.

It should also be understood that mobile device queries may be sent as part of a new service subscription provisioning wherein a mobile device is queries to determine the capabilities of his her mobile device e.g. mobile phone. Based on the query results the user s service may be confirmed associated benefits may be conferred to the user.

It should also be understood that one or mobile device queries may be sent in response to a particular event occurring after a mobile user s subscription to a service has been granted. For example such queries may be sent to a mobile device user in response to a recognition that the user has a new phone or that the user has not responded to promotional material sent the user s mobile device for some specified period of time. In either of those examples either the mobile device capability or the mobile device user ability may have changed since previous query responses were received. As a result in any of these example scenarios mobile device queries may provide user profile information either initial information about a mobile device and or user and update information about the mobile device and or user.

Following formulation of the query ies at control proceeds to at which a mobile device query is sent to one or more users. It should be understood that the scope of the invention is not limited to broadcast dissemination of identical queries to a plurality of users. Rather one or more mobile device queries may be sent to a single user for the purposes of optimizing that user s mobile device settings to ensure that the mobile device effectively receives and outputs promotional material of a particular format.

Alternatively the operations performed at could include sending a broadcast query to a plurality of users to poll the mobile device users and determine device capability user ability and or user inclination.

Control then proceeds to at which mobile device query responses are received from the mobile device users. This feedback may have many forms and includes a recordation of whether any response was received from the mobile device query. As indicated above the absence of a response may be an indication that the mobile device lacks receipt or output capability that the user lacks the ability to output or respond to the query or the user is disinclined to respond to the query. Thus noting a non response is valuable for the purposes of determining how and whether to query a non responding mobile device further regarding which set of circumstances is correct. For example if a user does not respond to a query sent via an MMS message a follow up query may be sent via EMS SMS or WAP Push. If no response is received a text electronic mail message or pre recorded audio message may be sent. In other words by decreasing the technological capability of the queries each time a query is sent the mobile device s capabilities or the user s presumed level of technical capability may be determined. Alternatively if no response to the query is received e.g. the user elects not to respond to the query the user is incapable of responding the query the query cannot be delivered successfully to the mobile device a presumption may be made whether the user future queries are likely to be responded to. In such a circumstance if there is a free or subsidized service agreement in place with the user such non responses may be grounds for terminating the service agreement or declining to grant a new service agreement.

Returning to the method of following receipt of the feedback from the mobile device query control proceeds to at which the feedback responses are analyzed and at associated results are stored in a user s profile information. This user s profile information may or may not include or be implemented at a User Agent Profile. Regardless the user profile information may be used to determine how to effectively transmit promotional material to the users of the mobile devices via their mobile devices.

Following analysis and storage of the query responses a determination is made at whether additional queries should be sent to one or more users.

This determination may be based on the operations performed at and or the query responses to the first mobile device query. For example if the method operations are performed to determine the capabilities of mobile devices in general a number of queries may be included to determine whether users 

mobile devices have various types of capabilities. Alternatively if the method operations are performed to perform optimization of mobile device settings trouble shoot a problem with the receipt or output of promotional material on a mobile device or the like the query response may be used to determine whether and which future mobile device queries should be sent. Thus it should be understood that the complexity of the operation illustrated in may be increased significantly depending on the performance context without departing from the scope of at least one invention embodiment.

For example a query may be fairly simple e.g. in order to find out what are the terminal capabilities and consumer capabilities a simple text message may be sent including a simple interaction query such as Can you read this Press reply to send message back. If the mobile device user is able to respond to this query the result may be stored in a database with a setting Capability level 1 OK. If the mobile device user is not able to answer this query the Capability level 1 will be marked with NOT OK. If the level 1 OK setting is stored in the user profile information a next message with a more complicated or technically demanding query may be sent e.g. a message with a picture and question in the picture Can you see this Press reply to send message back. 

Assuming a positive response to the query the user profile information may include Capability level 2 OK. Further the process could be continued by sending a next query with a video message with video requesting for certain feedback. Again assuming positive result the user profile information could be set to Capability level 3 OK. This example has three mobile device queries composed in a hierarchical manner wherein the simplest query is sent first and then more demanding queries follow based on affirmative responses from the mobile device user.

However it should be understood that the embodiments of the invention are not limited to this order. Queries need not be ordered based on any subject and may be unrelated. Further there may be any number of queries and some queries may be formulated to take into account presentation capability levels of the mobile devices e.g. more than point of inquiry may be included in a single query Can your read this What color are the words . There are also multiple ways to respond to a query including replying to the query directly writing a received code into a field at a web site sending back a picture which is taken with the mobile device calling a phone service etc.

It should also be appreciated that a query may be included in or be implemented by an MMS message sent as a precursor to included in or subsequent to a mobile device user subscribing to a new service. Therefore it should be appreciated that feedback from the query also referred to as a mobile device query response may be simply be confirmation from a communications network that the query was delivered successfully thus a query response may require no actions on the part of the mobile device user.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention one or more mobile device queries may sent to mobile device users to determine the size of memory available in a mobile device. This is a particular challenge with regard to mobile devices that are mobile phones because the internal memory of such phones varies widely thus some mobile phones even those that are MMS capable may not be able to display MMS messages with sizes larger than e.g. 30 kB . Thus there is utility in being able to determine whether mobile devices fall into categories of maximum memory sizes e.g. 30 kB 100 kB and 300 kB.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention one or more mobile device queries may sent to mobile device users to determine whether the mobile device is able to support click of embedded URL directly from a SMS MMS message.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention one or more mobile device queries may sent to mobile device users to ensure that GPRS settings are correctly installed.

Returning to if additional queries are necessary control returns to where at least one more additional mobile device query is sent and the method proceeds through operations again. This repetitive performance of may be performed until it is deemed that no additional queries are immediately necessary. Once it is determined that no additional queries are necessary control proceeds to at which promotional material distribution is performed based at least in part on the user profile information stored at . This distribution may also be performed based on instructions provided in connection with an advertising campaign associated with the promotional material.

Control may then proceed to where a determination is made whether additional mobile device queries are necessary. Such a determination may be performed when the response rate to distributed promotional material indicates that the previously stored user profile information requires updating. For example it is known that some mobile devices are initially configured by someone who is technically adept but are then used by users that are less so.

As a result if initial queries were responded to by a user of a higher technical ability but subsequently the device is used by a user who is unable to operate the mobile device in the same manner then initial queries must be resent to the user to determine how to effectively distribute promotional material to the actual user of the mobile device. Because this circumstance may not occur it should be understood that the resending and analysis of a second set of queries and responses is optional. Control then proceeds to at which the operations terminate.

Although not shown it should be understood that the method of may include an additional operation performed prior to wherein service subscription request information is received and analyzed to determine initial user profile information for a mobile device user. Additionally such user profile information may be formulated or augmented using other mechanisms including for example text to win campaigns that require providing certain information in exchange for some actual or perceived item of value.

As explained in connection with following analysis of one or more mobile device query responses and storage of results of that analysis for subsequent use and the receipt of both profile attribute data and promotional material for a campaign the advertisement management system in connection with the VAS GW may distribute promotional materials to individuals using the at least one communication network based on the mobile device query response analysis results. As explained in connection with the functionality and structure provided in accordance various invention embodiments see and the associated textual description such distribution may be performed using one or more of various formats of promotional material sent to mobile devices with a demonstrated capability to receive such promotional material and respond to the material.

As should be understood mobile device users may then respond to such promotional materials directly via the at least one communication network and or feedback can be indirect via one or more alternative systems not shown for example through use of coupons debits or tokens by purchasing advertised products or services etc.

Once mobile device users respond to the mobile device capability query information indicating the type of response the identity of the responder and other details regarding the response timing manner associated mobile device user actions such as forwarding promotional material etc. that information may be collected by the feedback analysis system via for example the one or more communication networks and or alternative systems not shown and stored along with the stored query response analysis data for the specific mobile device users. It should be understood also that the feedback analysis s system will also record an indication whether no response was received this is because receipt of no response may be considered to be indicative of the fact that 1 the queried mobile device does not have the capability to receive and or output the query that mobile device s user lacks the ability to receive and or output or respond to the query or 3 that mobile device s user is not inclined to respond to queries similar to those sent because of for example the format of the query e.g. MMS the timing of the query during work hours or a more generalized lack of interest in responding to such queries .

In this regard it should understood that implementation of the methodologies and functionality provided by at least one of the embodiments of this invention may be used to monitor subscribers compliance with terms and conditions for free or subsidized mobile device related services e.g. provided in connection with advertisement supported mobile services . Alternatively it should be understood that a set of queries may be sent as part of a mobile device user subscribing to a free or subsidized mobile service. Accordingly the service subscription may be partially or fully granted based on the mobile device user s responses to the one or more queries.

As should be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art from the description provided herein analysis of the mobile device capability query responses can be used by advertisers and advertising firms to improve the efficacy of marketing or advertising campaigns.

Moreover this marketing or advertising campaign efficacy information provided by embodiments of the invention can also or alternatively be used by advertising channel providers to improve mobile marketing or advertising campaign response rates by more efficiently and effectively using the advertising channel. Such an implementation may be of particular utility to advertising channel providers to increase profit because the invention would provide a mechanism for determining mobile marketing and advertising campaign efficacy. More specifically an advertising channel provider s profits increase when a response rate increases. This is due to the fact that typically advertising is priced on a two tiered approach there is a basic price for sending promotional material to a mobile device and if the targeted individual responds to the promotional material e.g. by replying to the promotional material the advertiser pays an additional fee to the advertising channel provider.

Accordingly when an advertising channel provider uses the invention to provide a marketing or advertising campaign that includes promotional material in a format that is consistent with the capabilities of a mobile device and abilities of the mobile device user the resulting advertising campaign is likely to be more successful at in eliciting responses from mobile device users.

While this invention has been described in conjunction with the specific embodiments outlined above it is evident that many alternatives modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the various embodiments of the invention as set forth above are intended to be illustrative not limiting. Various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example it should be understood that the term promotional material is meant to include any one of or combination of text pictures audio video links to web sites or other locations of information telephone numbers electronic mail addresses downloadable files including but not limited to audio files including ring tones songs etc computer implemented games video files etc.

It should be understood that data used by the feedback analysis system may include information provided by a mobile device user in response to one or more mobile device capability requests. Alternatively or in addition that data may be information that is already available regarding one or more mobile device users as a result of them signing up for a service e.g. an instant messaging service or mobile phone service for example in return for free services or reduced cost services. In turn that information may be referenced by the feedback analysis system when analyzing response rates to promotional information and determining correlations with both specified and non specified attributes.

It should be understood also that analysis of mobile device capability query responses may provide information indicating not only mobile device capability and user ability but also a most effective time or day to send particular formats of promotional material. For example MMS promotional material content may not be responded to immediately if for example mobile device users are in school classes or at work. However such query response feedback data may indicate such MMS promotional material is responded to at higher rates and more quickly at certain days of the week e.g. weekends and holidays or times of the day e.g. during peak commuting times after school classes have ended etc. Thus such information may be used by advertisers to tailor the delivery time of particular formats of promotional material for improved effect.

Further it should be understood that the term query may include any form of transmitted data sent to a mobile device user at any time for the purpose of eliciting information from the mobile device user. For example a query may be implemented as or be included in a message e.g. a Welcome Message sent to a mobile device user in preparation for as part of or subsequent to the mobile device user subscribing to a new service e.g. a subsidized or free mobile device related service.

Also it should be understood that the term promotional material includes any type of content provided in connection with mobile marketing mobile advertising or other material provided for the purpose of persuading mobile device users.

Further it should be understood that in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention one or more of mobile device queries may be sent via different source than VAS GW.

Additionally the mobile query response analysis may be used to determine which subset of mobile devices associated with a target audience lack the capability to receive content in a particular format. As a result at least one embodiment of the invention provides the ability to send promotional material to a target audience in at least two types of formats e.g. MMS and SMS or EMS. In such an implementation the promotional material for may be sent via alternative paths or mechanism e.g. including alternative equipment and networks so that mobile devices receive the promotional material in a format that may be effectively output to the mobile device users.

Moreover although various embodiment of the invention have been described herein that indicate that the transmission of mobile device queries are initiated only by advertisers or parties other than a mobile device user it should be understood that in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention at least one mobile device query may be transmitted to a mobile device user at the request of the mobile device user. Such an on demand implementation may have particular utility for a mobile device user when for example the user is considering purchasing a new mobile device and inserts the user s Subscriber Identity Module SIM card into a new device for the purpose of testing the device s capabilities in connection with a paid for free or subsidized service to which the user has subscribed.

Further it should be understood that the functionality described in connection with various described components of various invention embodiments may be combined or separated from one another in such a way that the architecture of the invention is somewhat different than what is expressly disclosed herein. Moreover it should be understood that unless otherwise specified there is no essential requirement that methodology operations be performed in the illustrated order therefore one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that some operations may be performed in one or more alternative order and or simultaneously.

Various components of the invention may be provided in alternative combinations operated by under the control of or on the behalf of advertisers advertising channel provider s network providers marketing organizations etc.

Further it should be understood that in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention system components may be implemented together or separately and there may be one or more of any or all of the disclosed system components. For example feedback analysis functionality and or components may be provided by equipment and or software operated by an advertisement operator and or equipment and or software operated and or controlled by an advertiser. Further one or more advertisers may use control or communicate with feedback components to perform their own analyses.

System components may be either dedicated systems receiving feedback information and campaign related profiles and non related profiles form advertisement management system or such functionality may be implemented as virtual systems implemented on general purpose equipment via software implementations. Moreover distribution of feedback information and profiles may be performed via an Application Program Interface API or any other methodology that is technologically and or commercially advantageous.

Further the analysis of what was received and presented could be done using special application running in mobile device that could for example take a screen shot of the mobile phone screen and send it back to for analysis and comparison of sent picture and received picture.

As a result it will be apparent for those skilled in the art that the illustrative embodiments described are only examples and that various modifications can be made within the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

