---

title: Pre-positioning deployment system
abstract: A system is disclosed for pre-positioning a canister assembly at an undersea location. A transporter deploys to and releases the assembly proximate to the desired location. Once the assembly has fallen a safe distance after release, spring bands of the assembly are released by the action of lanyards of the transporter. The release allows anchor plates on each end of the assembly to separate from the assembly thereby dragging the assembly to a seafloor with the assembly buoyant at the undersea location. A vehicle deployment from the assembly is actuated by an acoustic receiver that causes a release device to release a normally compressed spring thereby allowing the spring to expand. During expansion, water is drawn into the assembly through flow ports to force a plunger plate with the water to act on a vehicle to deploy the vehicle out of a deployment tube of the assembly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07418914&OS=07418914&RS=07418914
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07418914
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080104
---
This is a divisional application claiming the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 240 778 filed on 28 Sep. 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 337 741 which claims the benefits of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 656 550 filed on 18 Feb. 2005. Application Ser. No. 11 240 778 entitled Pre Positioning Deployment System for Small Unmanned Underwater Vehicle is by the inventors Michael T. Ansay and Angelo DiBiasio and was allowed for issuance on Oct. 17 2007.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

This invention relates to deployment systems with the ability to pre position weapons small vehicles or sensors within undersea littoral environments.

Launching from underwater sites is particularly important for torpedoes sensors and other types of undersea vehicles. Such vehicles have a short range and if they are to be successful it is important that they be launched to begin their run on a target immediately following detection of a target in the area. Therefore a need exists to provide a device to populate ports with various sensors vehicles or weapons such that any submarine traffic leaving the port could be covertly monitored or disrupted over extended periods of time. A further need exists to provide a device from which track and trail vehicles could be released to follow submarines or other vessels leaving a port.

A number of prior art systems are known which relate to the launching or release of vehicles from undersea positions. In Vass et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 003 291 an underwater multiple missile launcher is disclosed which comprises a main case having a pair of launcher platforms. Each platform has a transducer column and a plurality of missiles pivotally mounted on the platform in a circular array around the transducer columns.

In Dragonuk U.S. Pat. No. 4 263 835 the reference discloses a pneumatic restraint and ejection system for a multiple sonobuoy launcher having a single plenum communicating through separate check valves to the inboard ends of a plurality of launcher tubes and through separate girdle valves to inflatable girdles about the launch tubes. A sonobuoy is ejected by actuating the girdle valve to shut off the plenum air to the girdle and to exhaust the air in the girdle.

In Mabry et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 170 005 the reference discloses an underwater launch system for launching a rocket which includes a capsule for containing the rocket the capsule being buoyant. Upon command the capsule rises to the ocean surface where the rocket is automatically launched.

In Hagelberg et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 542 333 the reference discloses an upright or horizontal capsule in which the vehicle is placed.

In Dubois U.S. Pat. No. 6 484 618 the reference discloses a marine countermeasure launch assembly in which multiple countermeasures are released into the water by separation of the launch assembly.

In Borgwarth et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 487 952 the reference discloses a remote fire support system that remains beneath the water s surface until it is to be launched. At the desired activation time weights attached to the container of the system are released and the container rises to the surface for launching.

While the above references disclose types of launch systems none of the existing references utilize a coil spring for launch energy as a linear launch force. Further none of the existing references utilize a plunger assembly and pressurized seawater for vehicle deployment. Still further none of the existing references disclose the use of an arrangement of anchor plates anchor lines and canister buoyancy to safely launch deploy and control an entire canister. Still further none of the existing patents allow for vehicle deployment at both ends of the deployment canister.

Also none of the cited references make use of a check valve to reduce frictional losses as the vehicle is being deployed. Further none of the cited references uses a watertight bag to contain the vehicle in which the watertight bag is filled with an inert fluid to prevent the vehicle from corroding.

Still further none of the cited references allow for pressure equalization around the vehicle. Instead many of them utilize a pressure proof container thereby requiring a more robust container.

As a result of but not exhaustive of the shortcomings of the references cited above it is therefore an objective and general purpose of the present invention to provide an improved deployment system including a device to populate ports with various sensors vehicles or weapons such that any submarine traffic leaving the port could be covertly monitored or disrupted over extended periods of time.

It is therefore a further object of the present invention to provide an improved device from which track and trail vehicles could be released to follow submarines or other vessels leaving a port.

In order to obtain the objects described above there is provided a deployment system for an undersea environment in which the deployment system comprises a transporter such as a UUV having a quick release device and lanyards.

The transporter releases a canister assembly secured to the quick release device. The canister assembly includes spring bands encompassing a circumference of the canister assembly and secured to the transporter by the lanyards with the canister assembly further including anchor plates secured to a first and second end of the canister assembly by at least one anchor line and the spring bands. The quick release device and the lanyards are capable of releasing the canister assembly upon the deployment at an extent of the lanyards such that the spring bands separate to release the anchor plates from the ends of the canister assembly to position the anchor plates on a surface of the undersea environment thereby positioning the canister assembly by the securing the at least one anchor line.

The canister assembly is capable of stowing at least one vehicle and comprises a signal receiver the signal receiver operationally controllable of the at least one vehicle such that upon detection of an acoustic signal the signal receiver initiates the release of a vehicle from either the first end or the second end of the canister assembly. The canister assembly further comprises at least one deployment tube wherein the one least one deployment tube includes a release device controllable by the signal receiver a cord releasably secured at one end to the release device a plunger plate positioned transverse to a longitudinal axis of the deployment tube and secured at another end of the cord the plunger plate movable along the longitudinal axis and a spring positioned between the plunger plate and the release device. The signal receiver initiates the release of the vehicle from the deployment tube and the canister assembly by actuating the release device to release the cord thereby allowing the spring to uncoil with a resultant energy on the plunger plate to move against the vehicle to exit from the deployment tube and the canister assembly.

The deployment tube further includes a plurality of flow ports through a periphery of the deployment tube the flow ports capable of drawing water from the undersea environment into the deployment tube thereby pressuring the vehicle in combination with the plunger plate to exit the canister assembly.

As such the present invention provides a device from which track and trail vehicles can be released to follow submarines or other vessels leaving an enemy port.

As shown in the deployment system of the present invention allows the pre positioning of a canister assembly at a tactical location in a littoral environment. In general when the canister assembly is deployed by a transporter such as a large UUV shown it is covertly delivered to a desired pre positioning location. Once at the pre positioning location the UUV signals a linear actuator to trigger quick release devices of the UUV. The canister assembly then falls away from the UUV . Once the canister assembly has fallen a safe distance that is equal to the length of retractable lanyards of the UUV two spring bands of the canister assembly are released. The release of the spring bands allows anchor plates on each end of the canister assembly to separate and fall away from the canister assembly. The anchor plates then drag the buoyant canister assembly to a seafloor for final positioning. The canister assembly then remains camouflaged and dormant until a vehicle deployment from the canister assembly is called for.

A sequence of how the deployment system would be utilized once deployed is as follows in regard to thru . Once it is known that the submarine not shown is sufficiently close to the deployment system a remote acoustic signal triggers the release of a vehicle for tagging the submarine. The acoustic signal causes a release device to activate and release a cord that normally secures a compressed spring . After release the spring is then free to expand. As the spring expands it draws water in through flow ports and expands the spring along with the vehicle out of a muzzle end of a deployment tube . A muzzle cap is pushed off in the process and a vehicle start up switch is initiated. At this point the vehicle is free to seek out and tag the nearby submarine.

Referring again to thru the quick release devices are used to support the weight of the canister assembly underneath the large UUV during transit to the pre positioning location. Once the large UUV reaches the designated pre positioning location a linear actuator shall pull a cord attached to the quick release devices to activate the quick release devices at the same time. In this way the canister assembly is released such that the canister assembly falls away from the large UUV in a generally straight and level fashion.

The retractable lanyards are used to separate the anchor plates from each end of the canister assembly once the canister assembly has fallen a safe distance from the large UUV . Once the lanyards have reached the end of their length the lanyards pull a safety clip not shown off the spring bands . The spring bands release the anchor plates and allow the anchor plates to separate from the canister assembly . Once the safety clip is removed the lanyards shall retract back into their respective housings to avoid entanglement with the propulsion system of the large UUV .

More specifically the spring bands are used to connect the anchor plates to the canister assembly until the entire assembly is deployed. The spring bands are secured using a safety clip and lock. The spring bands are locked in place when the canister assembly is assembled. The locks remain in place while the canister assembly is being handled and loaded underneath the large UUV . The locks are removed after the canister assembly is prepared for final deployment.

At that point only the safety clips prevent the spring bands from releasing. The lanyards remove the safety clips once the canister assembly has fallen a safe distance from the large UUV . The spring bands then release and allow the anchor plates to separate from the canister assembly . The spring bands remain attached to the anchor plates .

The anchor plates are used as shock mitigation devices and as protective covers for each end of the canister assembly . As a protective cover the anchor plates protect the vehicles inside the canister assembly from accidentally sliding out during handling and loading. The anchor plates contain the vehicles during all other times leading up to the actual deployment.

Once the anchor plates are released the canister assembly is in full descent. The anchor plates remain attached to the canister assembly by anchor lines . The anchor plates shall be negatively buoyant while the remaining canister assembly is positively buoyant. Furthermore the anchor plates shall be more negatively buoyant than the canister assembly is positively buoyant. As a result the buoyant canister assembly is actually pulled to the seafloor by the greater in water weight of the anchor plates . The anchor plates absorb the shock of impacting the seafloor while sparing the canister assembly . As soon as the anchor plates hit the canister assembly begins to reverse its direction. However the momentum of the canister assembly will continue to carry the canister assembly downward for a short time until the canister assembly actually completes the reversing process.

The shape of the canister assembly may vary but is envisioned to be cylindrical for delivery from a submarine torpedo tube and because a cylindrical shape has a hydrodynamic shape for low drag. The canister assembly has several of the flow ports which are large in size located near the center of the canister assembly. The flow ports allow water to be drawn in during a launch of the vehicle and allow for a direct water transmission path to an acoustic receiver inside of the canister assembly .

In further description of the structure of the canister assembly the ends of the canister assembly are closed off with the anchor plates . At key positions internal support frames reinforce the structural shape of the canister assembly . The length and interior configuration of the canister assembly accommodates vehicle launchings from both ends of the canister assembly.

As shown in thru an individual deployment tube shall contain the vehicle that are to be deployed. Each of the deployment tubes structurally include a plunger plate a seal and constraint ring and check valve the spring and the release device . The total number of deployment tubes is dependent on the size of the canister assembly and on the size of the items to be deployed.

Each of the deployment tubes also contains two sets of water flow ports . The first set of flow ports is positioned to be near the nose of the vehicle . The first set of flow ports allows water to flood the volume of space inside the deployment tube forward of the seal and constraint ring .

A second set of flow ports is located just forward of the check valve when the spring is in the compressed state. The second set of flow ports allow water to flood the volume between the plunger plate and the constraint ring and are blocked off behind the plunger plate as soon as the plunger plate begins to traverse down the deployment tube . This movement ensures that the water is forced forward behind the deploying vehicle instead of being forced back out through the flood ports . This movement of the water causes the vehicle to be flushed out of the deployment tube .

The third set of flow ports is positioned behind the spring and forward of the release device . The third set of flow ports allow water to flow in behind the plunger plate as it traverses down the deployment tube . The third set of flow ports also allow for an uninterrupted signal transmission path to the acoustic receiver .

An individual deployment tube also contains a shoulder stop . The shoulder stop positions the spring and supports a fixed end of the spring during compression of the spring.

One spring is preferred per individual deployment tube . The spring stores potential energy that is used to eject the vehicle from the deployment tube . The spring is compressed by the release device via the cord until a launch is initiated.

The spring contains sufficient stored energy to overcome several opposing forces such as the force required to push off the nose cap the frictional forces associated with guide rails of the deployment tube the plunger plate and the ring and the fluid losses associated with pumping water through the deployment tube . The stiffness of the spring is sized to overcome these forces. The length of the spring is sufficiently long to either completely eject the vehicle from the deployment tube or impart enough energy on the vehicle so its own momentum is enough to carry it out of the deployment tube.

The release device initiates the deployment of the vehicle . In a pre deployment state the release device holds the spring in a compressed state. For deployment the release device activates a remote acoustic signal. Once activated the release device mechanically releases the cord connected to the check valve . Once the cord is released the plunger plate traverses forward while ejecting the vehicle in the process.

The acoustic receiver attached and wired into the release device is used to detect a remote acoustic signal from any acoustic source. Once the acoustic signal is received the acoustic receiver transmits the signal to the internal electronics of the release device . A motor controller of the release device then opens a latch that secures the cord . The acoustic receiver shall have various coded release messages to prevent the deployment system from being accidentally triggered and allows for the release of specific vehicles. The release device and acoustic receiver are optimally one component in which the component is of a type known by those skilled in the art.

The end cap release restraint assembly as seen in is a fixture that secures the release device and acoustic receiver to the aft end of the individual deployment tube .

The individual deployment tubes are aligned and fastened inside the canister assembly by several support frames that are spaced accordingly as seen in . The support frames allow for flow to pass through them such that each deployment tube is free flooded. If necessary the support frames could also be used to contain ballasting material that may be needed to properly weight the canister assembly .

The guides rails are positioned along the inside diameter of the deployment tubes . The guide rails provide for low friction support of the vehicle as it travels down the deployment tube . The guide rails also provide for an annular flow passage around the vehicle to allow the vehicle to keep moving even after the spring reaches its free length.

The muzzle cap prevents marine life and sediment from entering the deployment tube and also prevents the vehicle from accidentally sliding out of the deployment tube before a launch is called for. The force retaining the muzzle cap is large enough to contain the vehicle during its deployment from the UUV and during its descent and impact with the seafloor . At the same time the force to remove the muzzle cap is small enough such that the force of the spring can overcome it.

The seal and constraint ring is located near the forward end of the vehicle . The seal and constraint ring provides a watertight seal during deployment. The seal and constraint ring is positioned to provide a seal until the spring reaches its free length. At that point the seal and constraint ring will decouple from the vehicle and pass over the tapered end of the vehicle. The seal and constraint ring primarily prevents water from being pumped past the annular gap between the vehicle and the deployment tube thereby ensuring that all the water pumped by the plunger plate is used to force the vehicle out of the deployment tube. The seal and constraint ring also helps to stabilize the vehicle inside the deployment tube . The seal is made from a flexible material that provides limited cushioning and sealing properties.

In preferred use the head of the vehicle would have a collar with a block fastened upon it as seen in . The collar is positioned on the forward end of the vehicle so that when loading the vehicle into the individual deployment tube the block portion would secure into a notch just forward of the constraint ring .

The check valve and plunger plate work in combination as a positive displacement pump as the spring expands. As an integral piece the plunger plate and the check valve are attached to an end of the spring .

As the spring expands it forces the plunger plate towards the vehicle . The plunger plate has a circumferential seal around it to prevent water from leaking past it as the plunger plate travels along the deployment tube . The pressure created by the plunger plate is transmitted directly to the vehicle through the incompressible fluid so as the plunger plate moves the vehicle moves. This movement continues until the spring has reached the end of its free length at that point the check valve opens.

The check valve allows water to fill in from behind the vehicle . This minimizes the amount of water that must flow back through the annular gap around the vehicle thereby minimizing the fluid losses. The check valve is held in place by the differential pressure across it thereby ensuring the check valve opens as soon as the spring reaches its free length. At that point the differential pressure with the deployment tube changes direction and forces the check valve open.

Four sets of flow ports are preferably used. One set of flow ports is located near the center of the canister assembly . The flow ports at the center of the canister assembly allow for seawater to free flood the interior of the canister assembly provide for a signal transmission path to the acoustic receiver and act as inlet ports so seawater can be drawn in behind the plunger plate as the vehicle is flushed out.

A second set of the flow ports are located in the individual deployment tubes just forward of their respective release devices . These flow ports allow seawater to be drawn in as the vehicles are being flushed from the deployment tubes as well as allowing the volume of space behind the plunger plate to free flood.

A third set of flow ports is located just forward of the plunger plate and the check valve . These flow ports allow the volume of space behind the vehicle aft of the ring to be properly flooded.

A fourth set of flood ports is located at the nose of the vehicle . These flow ports allow the volume of space forward of the aft ring to free flood.

A protective bag partially shown in can be added to protect the vehicle from exposure to seawater. The protective bag would be filled with a non corrosive inert fluid which would allow the body of the vehicle to retain its integrity for extended durations of undersea deployment. In operation the plunger plate pushing toward the vehicle would flush the volume of seawater forward and likewise impose this pressure on the protective bag to tear it away thereby allowing the vehicle to exit the canister assembly .

All external components preferably have a reflective coating. The reflective coating of a type known to those skilled in the art provides camouflage for the system by mirroring its surroundings. In addition the anchor plates shall contain simulated seaweed that is indigenous to the area. The seaweed shall be exposed only after the anchor plates are separated from the canister assembly . Once exposed the seaweed will freely flow with the currents while being attached at their base to the anchor plates . The seaweed will help further obscure the canister assembly .

The deployment system can be deployed covertly by a transporter such as a submarine or the large underwater UUV for the covert pre positioning of the vehicles in shallow water littoral environments. Given that numerous vehicles are contained within the canister assembly the canister assembly could remain as a threat against several submarines or it could release multiple vehicles against the same submarine.

The deployment system also provides for long periods of on station endurance of one year or more. This on station deployment allows sufficient time to prepare the battle space without having to quickly replenish the pre positioning area.

The deployment system can have a reflective coating on its exterior to mirror its surroundings. This coating ensures that the canister assembly will have ample camouflage in any environment. This camouflage makes it extremely difficult to visually detect the canister assembly and to neutralize the canister assembly.

The anchor lines in combination with the anchor plates and the buoyant canister assembly keeps the canister assembly positioned safely off the seafloor . This positioning of the seafloor ensures that shifting sediment over time does not block the deployment tubes .

The design of the deployment system is suitable for deployment from various platforms. The deployment system can be deployed from submarines surface ships small boats helicopters planes or large UUV s.

The anchor lines in combination with the anchor plates and the buoyant canister assembly act as a shock mitigation system. Shock mitigation prevents damage to the canister assembly during descent and bottom impact of the canister assembly.

It is envisioned that small UUVs would be deployed as the vehicles by the deployment system described. However the deployment system is not limited to deploying small UUVs. The deployment system could also deploy an assortment of weapons or sensors or any other assortment of items. The items must only be able to interface with the deployment system . The deployment system could deploy buoyant signal jamming devices buoyant propeller fouling nets a chemical marking plume chemical detectors unmanned grounds sensors etc. Numerous uses exist for the deployment system .

The deployment system is described throughout as being deployed from a large underwater UUV . However the deployment system could also be deployed from a submarine torpedo tube an aircraft or a surface ship. When the deployment system is deployed from the large UUV the quick releases are actuated by a linear actuator and the spring bands are released by the lanyards . A slight modification to these features may be necessary for some of the deployment options.

If the deployment system were to be deployed from a surface ship the quick release devices would not be necessary as the entire canister assembly could be tossed over the side of the surface ship. The lanyards could be made longer so that the canister assembly is allowed to impact the water and become fully submerged before the anchor plates are released.

If the deployment system were to be deployed from an aircraft the quick release devices would not be necessary. Again the entire canister assembly could be simply thrown from the aircraft. The length of the lanyards could be set so that the canister assembly is again allowed to impact the water and become fully submerged before the anchor plates are released. If lanyards are not desirable for aircraft deployment exploding squibs could be used to release the anchor plates . A splash plate similar to those used when deploying torpedoes from aircraft could also be used.

The canister assembly is already designed for containment inside a 21 inch diameter cylinder which is compatible with all submarine torpedo tubes. In the submarine deployment application no quick release devices would be necessary. The canister assembly could be deployed using the same weapon ejection system used for torpedoes. However the spring bands would have to be redesigned. The spring bands would have to be made conformal to the outside diameter of the 21 inch diameter canister. In addition the lanyards would have to be rerouted internal through the canister assembly such that they exit the aft end of the canister assembly. If not another method such as exploding squibs would have to be used.

The canister assembly can be designed with a release mechanism attached to the anchor lines . In this way the canister assembly can be easily recovered by merely releasing it from the anchor plates . Since the canister assembly is buoyant the canister assembly will ascent to the surface for easy recovery.

The deployment system is described as having bi directional launching ability. However the deployment system could easily be modified for uni directional launches. This may be desirable if a shorter overall length for the canister assembly is preferred.

In light of the above it is therefore understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

