---

title: High performance aqueous coating compositions
abstract: Coating compositions for cementitious substrates may be made from a silane-functional multistage latex polymer. The compositions adhere well to cementitious substrates and resist crush damage such as may be caused by stacking coated substrate boards.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07812090&OS=07812090&RS=07812090
owner: Valspar Sourcing, Inc.
number: 07812090
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080815
---
This application is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 11 757 916 filed Jun. 4 2007 which in turn claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 810 739 filed Jun. 2 2006 the disclosures of both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Hard abrasion resistant coatings are used over a variety of substrates including cement wood and porous substrates. Particularly demanding substrates include horizontal substrates such as sidewalks floor tiles cement garage floors and decks. Unfortunately many of the commercially available coatings in use today for these substrates suffer from problems such as poor adhesion or poor water resistance e.g. blushing .

Cement and fiber cement substrates have an additional issue in that they typically require hard abrasion resistant coatings with excellent adhesion. In the past this has been addressed by using higher Tg polymer systems. Unfortunately volatile organic content VOC solvents generally must be used to achieve proper coalescence of higher Tg polymers. Consequently there is an unmet need to develop acceptable low VOC aqueous based coatings that are hard blush resistant abrasion resistant and offer excellent adhesion to cement and fiber cement substrates.

In addition there is an unmet need for improved fiber cement articles that resist damage from repeated freezing and thawing of water absorbed into the substrate. This need is particularly acute in colder climates where freeze thaw mechanisms can occur. Prefinished fiber cement siding products can also be visually marred or damaged during storage. One damage mechanism is caused by the heavy boards being stacked against or atop one another. In some cases the weight against the bottom boards may exceed 6 kg cmor even 10 kg cm and may damage the finish. In particular the peaks of the embossed surface can be crushed and the flattened peaks can appear as glossy spots.

The above mentioned application Ser. No. 11 757 916 describes coating compositions including water a multistage latex polymer and a silane coupling agent. Silane functionality may be provided in the multistage latex polymer by using a functionalized silane capable of copolymerizing with the latex polymer during or after latex formation. For example in one embodiment the silane coupling agent contains a functional group e.g. a vinyl allyl acrylate or mercapto group that is capable of copolymerizing with a monomer from which the multistage latex polymer is formed for example by participating in chain growth polymerization during formation of the multistage latex polymer and which is present during at least one stage of the multistage latex polymer formation. In another embodiment the silane coupling agent has a functional group e.g. an epoxy amino or isocyanato group and is reacted with functionality e.g. acetoacetoxy carboxy or amino functionality on the latex polymer after the multistage latex polymer has been formed. The disclosed silane functional latex polymers provide high performance coating compositions which adhere well to cementitious substrates and have improved stability.

The present invention thus provides in one aspect an aqueous coating composition comprising a silane functional multistage latex polymer. The multistage latex polymer includes two or more polymer stages having different Tg values. In a preferred embodiment the silane functional multistage latex polymer includes at least one soft stage having a Tg between about 65 and about 30 C. and at least one hard stage having a Tg between about 30 and about 230 C.

In another aspect the invention provides a method for preparing a coated article which method comprises providing a cementitious substrate coating at least a portion of the substrate with an aqueous coating composition comprising a silane functional multistage latex polymer and allowing the coating composition to harden.

In yet another aspect the present invention provides coated articles comprising a cementitious substrate having at least one major surface on which is coated a layer comprising an aqueous coating composition comprising a silane functional multistage latex polymer.

The above summary of the present invention is not intended to describe each disclosed embodiment or every implementation of the present invention. The description that follows exemplifies certain illustrative embodiments. In several places throughout the application guidance is provided through lists of examples which examples can be used in various combinations. In each instance the recited list serves only as a representative group and should not be interpreted as an exclusive list.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and this specification. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Like reference symbols in the various figures of the drawing indicate like elements. The elements in the drawing are not to scale.

The recitation of a numerical range using endpoints includes all numbers subsumed within that range e.g. 1 to 5 includes 1 1.5 2 2.75 3 3.80 4 5 etc. .

The terms a an the at least one and one or more are used interchangeably. Thus for example a coating composition that contains an additive means that the coating composition includes one or more additives.

The terms board or fiberboard refer to a generally planar component suitable for attachment to a building exterior surface including lap siding vertical siding soffit panels trim boards shingle replicas stone replicas and stucco replicas.

The term cementitious refers to a substrate or material that comprises cement and has the properties or characteristics of cement or that comprises a chemical precipitate preferably of carbonates having the characteristics of cement. Examples of cementitious substrates and materials include cement burnished cement concrete polished concrete and cement fiberboard and examples of places or applications where cementitious substrates may be employed include floors e.g. garage floors tiles e.g. floor tiles decks boards and panels e.g. fiber cement boards and the like.

The term comprises and variations thereof does not have a limiting meaning where such term appears in the description or claims. Thus a composition comprising an ethylenically unsaturated compound means that the composition includes one or more ethylenically unsaturated compounds.

The terms group and moiety are used to differentiate between chemical species that allow for substitution or that may be substituted and those that do not allow substitution or that may not be so substituted. Thus when the term group is used to describe a chemical substituent the described chemical material includes substituted and unsubstituted groups where the substituent groups may include O N Si or S atoms for example in the chain e.g. an alkoxy group as well as carbonyl groups and other substituent groups. The term organic group thus refers to a hydrocarbon e.g. hydrocarbyl group with optional elements other than carbon and hydrogen in the chain such as oxygen nitrogen silicon or sulfur. Representative organic groups include aliphatic groups cyclic groups and combinations of aliphatic and cyclic groups e.g. alkaryl or aralkyl groups . The term aliphatic group refers to a saturated or unsaturated linear or branched organic group. For example this term is used to encompass alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl groups. The term alkyl group refers not only to pure open chain saturated hydrocarbon alkyl substituents such as methyl ethyl isopropyl t butyl heptyl dodecyl octadecyl amyl 2 ethylhexyl and the like but also to substituted alkyl groups having substituents known in the art such as hydroxy alkoxy alkylsulfonyl halo cyano nitro amino carboxyl and the like. The term alkenyl group refers to an unsaturated linear or branched hydrocarbon group with one or more carbon carbon double bonds and likewise may have substituents known in the art. Non limiting examples of alkenyl groups include groups such as vinyl 1 propenyl 2 propenyl 1 3 butadienyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl 1 pentenyl 2 pentenyl 1 hexenyl 2 hexenyl heptenyl octenyl and the like. The term alkynyl group refers to an unsaturated linear or branched hydrocarbon group with one or more carbon carbon triple bonds and likewise may have substituents known in the art. Non limiting examples of alkynyl groups include ethynyl 1 propynyl 2 propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 3 butynyl 1 pentynyl 2 pentynyl 1 hexynyl 2 hexynyl heptynyl octynyl and the like. The term cyclic group refers to a closed ring hydrocarbon group that can be classified as an alicyclic group aromatic group aryl group or heterocyclic group. The term alicyclic group refers to a cyclic hydrocarbon group having properties resembling those of aliphatic groups. Non limiting examples of alicyclic groups include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl and the like. The terms aromatic group or aryl group refer to a mono or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon group including phenyl or naphthyl groups. The term heterocyclic group refers to a closed ring hydrocarbon group in which one or more of the atoms in the ring is an element other than carbon e.g. nitrogen oxygen sulfur etc. . When the term moiety is used to describe a chemical compound or substituent only the unsubstituted chemical material is intended to be included. Thus the phrase hydrocarbyl moiety refers to unsubstituted organic moieties containing only hydrogen and carbon and the phrase alkyl moiety refers to pure open chain saturated hydrocarbon alkyl substituents such as methyl ethyl propyl t butyl and the like.

A latex polymer means a dispersion or emulsion of polymer particles formed in the presence of water and one or more secondary dispersing or emulsifying agents e.g. a surfactant alkali soluble polymer or mixtures thereof whose presence is required to form the dispersion or emulsion. The secondary dispersing or emulsifying agent is typically separate from the polymer after polymer formation. In some embodiments a reactive dispersing or emulsifying agent may become part of the polymer particles as they are formed.

The phrase low VOC when used with respect to a liquid coating composition means that the coating composition contains less than about 10 weight volatile organic compounds more preferably less than about 7 volatile organic compounds and most preferably less than about 4 volatile organic compounds based upon the total liquid coating composition weight.

The term meth acrylic acid includes either or both of acrylic acid and methacrylic acid and the term meth acrylate includes either or both of an acrylate and a methacrylate.

The term multistage when used with respect to a latex polymer means the polymer was made using discrete charges of one or more monomers or was made using a continuously varied charge of two or more monomers. Usually a multistage latex will not exhibit a single Tg inflection point as measured using DSC. For example a DSC curve for a multistage latex made using discrete charges of one or more monomers may exhibit two or more Tg inflection points. Also a DSC curve for a multistage latex made using a continuously varied charge of two or more monomers may exhibit no Tg inflection points. By way of further explanation a DSC curve for a single stage latex made using a single monomer charge or a non varying charge of two monomers may exhibit only a single Tg inflection point. Occasionally when only one Tg inflection point is observed it may be difficult to determine whether the latex represents a multistage latex. In such cases a lower Tg inflection point may sometimes be detected on closer inspection or the synthetic scheme used to make the latex may be examined to determine whether or not a multistage latex would be expected to be produced.

The terms preferred and preferably refer to embodiments which may afford certain benefits under certain circumstances. However other embodiments may also be preferred under the same or other circumstances. Furthermore the recitation of one or more preferred embodiments does not imply that other embodiments are not useful and is not intended to exclude other embodiments from the scope of the invention.

The terms topcoat or final topcoat refer to a coating composition which when dried or otherwise hardened provides a decorative or protective outermost finish layer on a substrate e.g. a fiber cement board attached to a building exterior. By way of further explanation such final topcoats include paints stains or sealers capable of withstanding extended outdoor exposure e.g. exposure equivalent to one year of vertical south facing Florida sunlight without visually objectionable deterioration but do not include primers that would not withstand extended outdoor exposure if left uncoated viz. without a topcoat.

Referring to a coated article of the present invention is shown in schematic cross sectional view. Article includes a cement fiberboard substrate . Substrate typically is quite heavy and may for example have a density of about 1 to about 1.6 g cmor more. The first major surface of substrate may be embossed with small peaks or ridges and valleys e.g. so as to resemble roughsawn wood. Major surface may have a variety of other surface configurations and may resemble a variety of building materials other than roughsawn wood. An optional further layer or layers which may for example be a sealer primer or layers of both sealer and primer may lie atop surface . Layer can provide a firmly adhered base layer upon which one or more firmly adhered layers of final topcoat may be formed and may hide mottling or other irregularities arising in some instances when article is dried in a factory which may otherwise be visible on surface . If a primer layer may include a high Pigment Volume Concentration PVC e.g. about 45 or more. Layer is however not weather resistant or decorative and is not designed or intended to serve as a final topcoat. Topcoat desirably is both decorative and weather resistant and may be applied to article at the location where article is manufactured or after article has been attached to a building or other surface. Topcoat desirably provides a crush resistant surface which withstands the forces that may be imparted to article during warehousing and shipping operations such as long term storage and transporting of prefinished stacked cementboard to a jobsite. Topcoat thus may provide reduced visual coating damage and consequently less need for touch up repairs or recoating after article has been attached to a building.

The differences in height between peaks and valleys in major surface typically are much greater than those shown in the thicknesses of layer and topcoat have been magnified in for emphasis. The typical actual differences in height between peaks and valleys in major surface may for example be about 1 to about 5 mm.

The disclosed compositions may be applied to a variety of substrates including cement cement tiles and fiber cement substrates. The composition may also be applied to wood and wood substitutes. The compositions are particularly useful for coating cementitious substrates including cement floors and fiber cement articles. A variety of fiber cement substrates may be employed. Fiber cement substrates typically are composites made from cement and filler. Exemplary fillers include wood fiberglass polymers or mixtures thereof. The substrates can be made using methods such as extrusion the Hatschek method or other methods known in the art. See e.g. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2005 0208285 A1 Australian Patent Application No. 2005100347 International Patent Application No. WO 01 68547 A1 International Patent Application No. WO 98 45222 A1 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2006 0288909 A1 and Australian Patent Application No. 198060655 A1. Fiber cement composites can include unprimed fiber cement substrates and commercially available pre primed or pre painted fiber cement substrates which may be topcoated as described below. Non limiting examples of such substrates include siding products boards and the like for uses including fencing roofing flooring decking wall boards shower boards lap siding vertical siding soffit panels trim boards shaped edge shingle replicas and stone or stucco replicas. One or both major surfaces of the substrate may be profiled or embossed to look like a grained or roughsawn wood or other building product or scalloped or cut to resemble shingles. The uncoated substrate surface typically contains a plurality of pores with micron or submicron scale cross sectional dimensions.

A variety of suitable fiber cement substrates are commercially available. For example several preferred fiber cement siding products are available from James Hardie Building Products Inc. of Mission Viejo Calif. including those sold as HARDIEHOME siding HARDIPANEL vertical siding HARDIPLANK lap siding HARDIESOFFIT panels HARDITRIM planks and HARDISHINGLE siding. These products are available with an extended warranty and are said to resist moisture damage to require only low maintenance to not crack rot or delaminate to resist damage from extended exposure to humidity rain snow salt air and termites to be non combustible and to offer the warmth of wood and the durability of fiber cement. Other suitable fiber cement siding substrates include AQUAPANEL cement board products from Knauf USG Systems GmbH Co. KG of Iserlohn Germany CEMPLANK CEMPANEL and CEMTRIM cement board products from Cemplank of Mission Viejo Calif. WEATHERBOARDS cement board products from CertainTeed Corporation of Valley Forge Pa. MAXITILE MAXISHAKE AND MAXISLATE cement board products from MaxiTile Inc. of Carson Calif. BRESTONE CINDERSTONE LEDGESTONE NEWPORT BRICK SIERRA PREMIUM and VINTAGE BRICK cement board products from Nichiha U.S.A. Inc. of Norcross Ga. EVERNICE cement board products from Zhangjiagang Evernice Building Materials Co. Ltd. of China and E BOARD cement board products from Everest Industries Ltd. of India.

The disclosed articles may be coated on one or more surfaces with one or more layers of the coating composition. For example in one preferred embodiment the coating composition may include an optional primer layer and one or more topcoat layers. An optional sealer layer underneath the primer layer may also be utilized if desired. Preferably the various layers are selected to provide a coating system that has good adhesion to the substrate and between adjacent layers of the system.

Exemplary optional sealer layers include acrylic latex materials. The typical function of a sealer layer is to provide one or more features such as improved adhesion efflorescence blocking water resistance or blocking resistance. Non limiting sealers include unpigmented or low pigment level latex coatings having for example between about 5 and 20 weight solids. An example of a commercially available sealer is OLYMPIC FC sealer from PPG Industries.

Exemplary optional primer layers include acrylic latex or vinyl primers. The primer may include color pigments if desired. Preferred primers have a 60 degree gloss value of less than about 15 more preferably less than about 10 and optimally less than about 5 percent. Preferred primers have a pigment volume concentration PVC greater than about 40 .

Other exemplary coating compositions for use under the coatings of this invention include those compositions and systems described in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. US 2007 0259166 A1 and US 2007 0259188 A1 and International Patent Application Nos. WO 2007 090132 A1 and WO 2007 089807 A1.

The disclosed compositions are formulated using multistage latex polymers. Further details concerning multistage latex polymers are contained in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. US 2006 0135684 A1 US 2006 0135686 A1 and US 2007 0110981. The multistage latex polymer is preferably prepared through chain growth polymerization using two or more ethylenically unsaturated monomers. Non limiting examples of ethylenically unsaturated monomers include monomers such as acrylic acid methacrylic acid methyl acrylate ethyl acrylate propyl acrylate butyl acrylate 2 ethylhexyl acrylate methyl methacrylate ethyl methacrylate propyl methacrylate butyl methacrylate 2 ethylhexyl methacrylate hydroxyethyl acrylate hydroxyethyl methacrylate hydroxybutyl acrylate hydroxybutyl methacrylate hydroxypropyl acrylate hydroxypropyl methacrylate glycidyl acrylate glycidyl methacrylate 4 hydroxybutyl acrylate glycidylether 4 hydroxybutyl methacrylate glycidylether acrylamide methylacrylamide diacetone acrylamide methylol meth acrylamide acrylonitrile styrene a methyl styrene vinyl toluene vinyl acetate vinyl propionate allyl methacrylate or mixtures thereof. If desired the latex polymer may be formed using one or more acidic monomers. For example the latex polymers may include up to about 5 weight methacrylic acid or acrylic acid based on the total latex polymer weight viz. the total polymer solids weight .

The multistage latex polymer includes silane functionality which may for example be provided by carrying out chain growth polymerization in the presence of a silane coupling agent that contains a functional group capable of copolymerizing with and which copolymerizes with a monomer from which the multistage latex polymer is formed. Exemplary such silanes include monomeric dipodal and oligomeric silanes containing a vinyl allyl meth acrylate or other ethylenically unsaturated group or a mercapto group. Representative silanes include olefinic silanes such as vinyltrialkoxysilane vinyltriacetoxy silane alkylvinyldialkoxysilane hexenyltrialkoxysilane and the like allyl silanes such as allyltrialkoxysilane silane acrylates such as 3 acryloxypropyl trimethoxysilane methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane and the like and mercapto silanes such as 3 mercaptopropyltrimethoxysilane 3 mercaptopropyltriethoxysilane s octanoyl mercaptopropyltriethoxysilane 3 thiocyanatopropyltriethoxysilane 3 mercaptopropylmethyldimethoxysilane bis 3 triethoxysilyl propyl tetrasulfide and bis 3 triethoxysilyl propyl disulfide. Commercially available silanes which may be reacted into the latex polymer during polymer formation include SELQUEST A 151 vinyl triethoxysilane A 171 vinyl trimethoxysilane A 172 vinyl tris 2 methoxyethoxy silane A 174 methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane and A 2171 vinyl methyldimethoxysilane available from Momentive Performance Materials Inc. Silanes with multiple functionality may also be used such as DYNASYLAN HYDROSIL 2929 an amino methacrylate functional silane from Degussa.

The multistage latex polymer may also be made silane functional by combining the polymer with a silane coupling agent having a functional group e.g. an epoxy amino or isocyanato group and reacting the functional group with functionality e.g. acetoacetoxy carboxy or amino functionality on the already formed latex polymer. Suitable epoxy functional silanes include silanes having the formula RSi R OR where n is 1 2 or 3 the Rgroup contains at least one epoxy group and is alkyl cycloalkyl phenyl cycloalkylalkyl alkenylcycloalkyl alkenylphenyl e.g. benzyl or phenylalkyl e.g. tolyl . Each Rgroup is independently hydrogen alkyl cycloalkyl phenyl cycloalkylalkyl alkenylcycloalkyl alkenylphenyl e.g. benzyl phenylalkyl e.g. tolyl or a silane oligomer wherein each Rgroup can optionally include ORgroups or epoxy functionality. Each Rgroup is independently hydrogen alkyl cycloalkyl phenyl cycloalkylalkyl alkenylcycloalkyl alkenylphenyl e.g. benzyl or phenylalkyl e.g. tolyl . Preferred epoxy functional silanes have an average molecular weight of from about 140 to about 500 g mole more preferably from about 150 to about 300. In one preferred embodiment the molecular weight does not exceed a maximum of about 190 to about 250 n is 1 or 2 Ris an alkyl group of 3 to 8 carbon atoms containing no more than one epoxy group and Ris a methoxy or ethoxy group.

Exemplary epoxy functional silanes include 3 4 epoxycyclohexyl ethyltrimethoxysilane available from Mitsubishi International Corporation as KBM303 r glycidoxypropyl trimethoxysilane available from Mitsubishi International Corporation as KBM403 r glycidoxypropyl methyldiethoxysilane available from Mitsubishi International Corporation as KBE402 glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane available from Dow Corning as Z 6040 glycidoxypropyltriethoxysilane available from Dow Corning as Z 6041 glycidoxypropyltriethoxysilane available from GE Silicones as SILQUEST A 187 glycidoxypropylmethyldimethoxysilane available from Dow Corning as Z 6044 glycidoxy propylmethyldiethoxysilane available from Dow Corning as Z 6042 and epoxycyclohexyl ethyltrimethoxysilane available from Dow Corning as Z 6043 5 6 epoxyhexyltriethoxysilane available from Gelest Inc. as SIE4675.0 hydrolyzates of the above and the like.

Suitable amino functional silanes include silanes having the formula R Si R OR where n is 1 2 or 3 the Rgroup contains at lest one amino group and is alkyl cycloalkyl phenyl cycloalkylalkyl alkenylcycloalkyl alkenylphenyl e.g. benzyl or phenylalkyl e.g. tolyl . Each Rgroup is independently hydrogen alkyl cycloalkyl phenyl cycloalkylalkyl alkenylcycloalkyl alkenylphenyl e.g. benzyl or phenylalkyl e.g. tolyl or a silane oligomer wherein each Rgroup can optionally include ORgroups or amino functionality. Each Rgroup is independently hydrogen alkyl cycloalkyl phenyl cycloalkylalkyl alkenylcycloalkyl alkenylphenyl e.g. benzyl or phenylalkyl e.g. tolyl . Preferred amino functional silanes have an average molecular weight of from about 140 to about 500 more preferably from about 150 to about 300. In one embodiment it is preferred that the number average molecular weight not exceed a maximum of about 190 to about 250 that n is 1 or 2 Ris an alkyl group having from 3 to 8 carbon atoms and containing no more than one amino group and Ris a methoxy or ethoxy group.

Exemplary amino functional silanes include trimethoxysilylpropyldiethylene triamine N methylaminopropyltrimethoxysilane aminoethylaminopropylmethyl dimethoxysilane aminoethylaminopropyltrimethoxysilane available from Dow Corning as Z 6020 aminopropylmethyldimethoxysilane aminopropyltrimethoxysilane polymeric amino alkylsilicone aminoethylaminoethylaminopropyl trimethoxysilane N methylaminopropyltri methoxysilane methylamino propyltrimethoxysilane aminopropylmethyldiethoxysilane aminopropyltriethoxysilane 4 aminobutyltriethoxysilane oligomeric aminoalkylsilane m aminophenyltrimethoxysilane phenylaminopropyltrimethoxysilane 1 1 2 4 tetramethyl 1 sila 2 azacyclopentane aminoethylaminopropyltriethoxysilane aminoethylaminoisobutyl methyldimethoxysilane benzylethylenediaminepropyltrimethoxysilane hydrolyzates of the above and the like.

Practical considerations such as solubility hydrolysis rate compatibility with the coating composition polymer stability and the like may be considered when selecting the structure and molecular weight of the silane and choosing whether to react the silane with a monomer from which the multistage latex polymer is formed or to react the silane with functionality on the already formed latex polymer. Both approaches may be used if desired. The coating composition may if desired also contain a separate silane coupling agent e.g. a silane monomer oligomer or polymer or unreacted functional silane in order to augment or complement the performance of the silane functional multistage polymer. Exemplary silane coupling agents include alkoxysilanes such as bis triethoxysilylethane 1 2bis trimethoxysilyl decane trimethoxysilyl ethane and bis 3 methyldimethoxysilyl propyl polypropylene oxide carboxylate silanes such as carboxyethylsilanetriol sodium salt hydroxy silanes such as bis 2 hydroxyethyl 3 aminopropyl triethoxysilane triethoxysilylmethanol N triethoxysilylpropyl o polyethylene oxide urethane and N 3 triethoxysilylpropyl gluconamide phosphine and phosphate silanes such as diethylphosphatoethyltriethoxysilane and 3 trihydroxysilylpropylmethylphosphonate sodium salt and sulfonate silanes such as 3 trihydroxysilyl 1 lpropane sulfonic acid. The silane may also be a polymeric silane such as triethoxysilyl modified poly 1 2 butadiene From Gelest Inc. and aminoalkyl silsesquioxane oligomers from Gelest Inc.

Whether the multistage latex polymer is made silane functional by reacting the silane into the polymer during polymer formation or onto the polymer after polymer formation the disclosed coating compositions may for example contain at least about 0.2 weight at least about 0.5 weight or at least about 0.7 weight silane based on a comparison of the weight of silane starting material to the latex polymer weight. The multistage latex polymer may for example contain less than about 10 weight less than about 6 weight or less than about 4 weight silane based on the latex polymer weight.

Acetoacetyl functionality may be incorporated into the polymer through the use of an acetoacetyl functional olefinic monomer such as acetoacetoxyethyl acrylate aceto acetoxypropyl methacrylate allyl acetoacetate acetoacetoxybutyl methacrylate 2 3 di acetoacetoxy propyl methacrylate 2 acetoacetoxy ethyl methacrylate t butyl acetoacetate and the like or combinations thereof. The acetoacetyl functional latex polymer may for example be prepared through chain growth polymerization using for example AAEM. A polymerizable hydroxy functional or other active hydrogen containing monomer may also be converted to the corresponding acetoacetyl functional monomer by reaction with diketene or other acetoacetylating agent see e.g. Comparison of Methods for the Preparation of Acetoacetylated Coating Resins Witzeman J. S. Dell Nottingham W. Del Rector F. J. Coatings Technology Vol. 62 1990 101 and citations contained therein . The latex polymer may for example include at least about 0.5 weight acetoacetyl functionality about 0.5 to about 5 weight acetoacetyl functionality or about 2 to about 7.5 weight acetoacetyl functionality based on the total latex polymer weight. Functionalized latex polymers are further described in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. US 2006 0135684 A1 and US 2006 0135686 A1. When present the acetoacetyl functional group preferably is incorporated into the latex polymer using 2 acetoacetoxy ethyl methacrylate t butyl acetoacetate diketene or combinations thereof.

Exemplary multistage latex polymer compositions contain at least two polymers of different glass transition temperatures viz. different Tg values and may be prepared via emulsion polymerization using many of the aforementioned monomers. In one preferred embodiment the latex will include a first polymer stage the soft stage having a Tg less than 30 C. e.g. between about 65 and 30 C. more preferably between about 15 and 25 C. and most preferably between about 5 and 15 C. and a second polymer stage the hard stage having a Tg greater than 30 C. e.g. between about 30 and 230 C. more preferably between about 30 and 125 C. and most preferably between 60 and 100 C. The ratios of monomers in the disclosed multistage latex polymers may be adjusted to provide the desired level of hard stage or soft stage segments. The Fox equation may be employed to calculate the theoretical Tg of a polymer made from two monomer feeds 1

where Tand Tare the respective glass transition temperatures of polymers made from monomers a and b and

Wand Ware the respective weight fractions of polymers a and b . Multistage latexes are conveniently produced by sequential monomer feeding techniques. For example a first monomer composition is fed during the early stages of the polymerization and then a second different monomer composition is fed during the later stages of the polymerization. In certain embodiments it may be favorable to start the polymerization with a high Tg monomer composition and then switch to a low Tg monomer composition while in other embodiments it may be favorable to start the polymerization with a low Tg monomer composition and then switch to a high Tg monomer composition.

A plurality of hard and soft stages may also be utilized. For example in certain compositions it may be beneficial to polymerize two different low Tg soft stage monomer compositions after the hard stage polymer is formed. The first soft stage may be for example prepared with a monomer whose homopolymer has a Tg close to room temperature e.g. 20 C. and the second soft stage may be prepared with monomer whose homopolymer has a Tg well below room temperature e.g. less than 5 C. . While not intending to be bound by theory it is believed that this second soft stage polymer assists with improving coalescence of the latex polymer particles.

It may be advantageous to use a gradient Tg latex polymer made using continuously varying monomer feeds. The resulting polymer will typically have a DSC curve that exhibits no Tg inflection points and could be said to have an essentially infinite number of Tg stages. For example one may start with a high Tg monomer composition and then at a certain point in the polymerization start to feed a low Tg soft stage monomer composition into the reactor with the high Tg hard stage monomer feed or into the high Tg hard stage monomer feed. The resulting multistage latex polymer will have a gradient Tg from high to low. A gradient Tg polymer may also be used in conjunction with multiple multistage Tg polymers. As an example a high Tg monomer feed F and a low Tg monomer feed F can be prepared. The process would begin by adding feed F into the latex reactor vessel and initiating polymerization. After a certain period during the F feed the feed F is added into F wherein the F feed rate is faster than the overall feed rate of F F into the reactor vessel. Consequently once the F feed into F is complete the overall Tg of the F F monomer feed blend will be a lower Tg soft stage monomer composition.

The disclosed multistage latex polymer compositions preferably include about 5 to about 95 weight percent soft stage polymer morphology more preferably about 50 to about 90 weight percent soft stage polymer morphology and most preferably about 60 to about 80 weight percent soft stage polymer morphology based on total latex polymer weight. The disclosed multistage latex polymer compositions preferably include about 5 to 95 weight percent hard stage polymer morphology more preferably about 10 to about 50 weight percent hard stage polymer morphology and most preferably about 20 to about 40 weight percent hard stage polymer morphology based on total latex polymer weight.

For example a soft segment may be introduced by providing a monomer composition containing 5 to 65 parts butyl acrylate 20 to 90 parts butyl methacrylate 0 to 55 parts methyl methacrylate 0.5 to 5 parts meth acrylic acid 0 to 20 parts AAEM and 0.1 to 2 parts olefinic silane. A hard segment may be introduced by providing a monomer composition including 0 to 20 parts butyl acrylate 0 to 40 parts butyl methacrylate 45 to 95 parts methyl methacrylate 0.5 to 5 parts meth acrylic acid 0 to 20 parts AAEM and 0.1 to 2 parts olefinic silane. The olefinic silane may be reacted into either or both of the soft and hard segments. Silane functionality may instead or in addition be reacted onto the already formed multistage latex polymer via reaction with functionality on either or both of the soft and hard segments.

The aforementioned multistage latex polymers are illustrative and other multistage latex polymers may be used in the practice of this invention. For example the multistage latex polymer may be prepared with a high Tg alkali soluble polymer hard stage. Alkali soluble polymers may be prepared by making a polymer with acrylic or methacrylic acid or other polymerizable acid monomer usually at greater than 7 weight and solubilizing the polymer by addition of ammonia or other base. Examples of suitable alkali soluble high Tg support polymers include JONCRYL 675 and JONCRYL 678 oligomer resins available from BASF. A low Tg soft stage monomer composition or gradient Tg composition could then be polymerized in the presence of the hard stage alkali soluble polymer to prepare a multistage latex polymer. Another exemplary process for preparing alkali soluble supported polymers is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 962 571. For coating compositions containing acetoacetyl functional polymers particularly clear coatings a nitrogen free base e.g. an inorganic metal base such as KOH CaOH NaOH LiOH etc. may be beneficial. If desired the disclosed coating compositions may also contain non silane functional latex polymers including non silane functional multistage latex polymers.

The disclosed multistage latex polymers may be stabilized by one or more nonionic or anionic emulsifiers e.g. surfactants used either alone or together. Examples of suitable nonionic emulsifiers include tert octylphenoxyethylpoly 39 ethoxyethanol dodecyloxypoly 10 ethoxyethanol nonylphenoxyethyl poly 40 ethoxyethanol polyethylene glycol 2000 monooleate ethoxylated castor oil fluorinated alkyl esters and alkoxylates polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan monolaurate sucrose monococoate di 2 butyl phenoxypoly 20 ethoxyethanol hydroxyethylcellulosepolybutyl acrylate graft copolymer dimethyl silicone polyalkylene oxide graft copolymer poly ethylene oxide poly butyl acrylate block copolymer block copolymers of propylene oxide and ethylene oxide 2 4 7 9 tetramethyl 5 decyne 4 7 diol ethoxylated with ethylene oxide N polyoxyethylene 20 lauramide N lauryl N polyoxyethylene 3 amine and poly 10 ethylene glycol dodecyl thioether thioether. Examples of suitable anionic emulsifiers include sodium lauryl sulfate sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate potassium stearate sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate sodium dodecyldiphenyloxide disulfonate nonylphenoxyethylpoly 1 ethoxyethyl sulfate ammonium salt sodium styrene sulfonate sodium dodecyl allyl sulfosuccinate linseed oil fatty acid sodium potassium or ammonium salts of phosphate esters of ethoxylated nonylphenol or tridecyl alcohol sodium octoxynol 3 sulfonate sodium cocoyl sarcocinate sodium 1 alkoxy 2 hydroxypropyl sulfonate sodium alpha olefin C C sulfonate sulfates of hydroxyalkanols tetrasodium N 1 2 dicarboxy ethyl N octadecylsulfosuccinamate disodium N octadecylsulfosuccinamate disodium alkylamido polyethoxy sulfosuccinate disodium ethoxylated nonylphenol half ester of sulfosuccinic acid and the sodium salt of tert octylphenoxyethoxypoly 39 ethoxyethyl sulfate.

One or more water soluble free radical initiators typically are used in the chain growth polymerization of the multistage latex polymer. Initiators suitable for use in the coating compositions will be known to persons having ordinary skill in the art or can be determined using standard methods. Representative water soluble free radical initiators include hydrogen peroxide tert butyl peroxide alkali metal persulfates such as sodium potassium and lithium persulfate ammonium persulfate and mixtures of such initiators with a reducing agent. Representative reducing agents include sulfites such as alkali metal metabisulfite hydrosulfite and hyposulfite sodium formaldehyde sulfoxylate and reducing sugars such as ascorbic acid and isoascorbic acid. The amount of initiator is preferably from about 0.01 to about 3 weight based on the total amount of monomer. In a redox system the amount of reducing agent is preferably from 0.01 to 3 weight based on the total amount of monomer. The polymerization reaction can be performed at a temperature in the range of from about 10 to about 100 C.

The disclosed coating compositions may for example include a multistage latex polymer in an amount of at least 10 weight at least 25 weight or at least 35 weight based on total composition solids. The multistage polymer amount is less than 100 weight and may for example be less than 85 weight or less than 80 weight based on total composition solids.

The disclosed coating compositions may contain a variety of adjuvants which will be familiar to persons having ordinary skill in the art or which can be determined using standard methods. For example the coating compositions may contain one or more optional coalescents to facilitate film formation. Exemplary coalescents include glycol ethers such as EASTMAN EP EASTMAN DM EASTMAN DE EASTMAN DP EASTMAN DB and EASTMAN PM from Eastman Chemical Co. and ester alcohols such as TEXANOL ester alcohol from Eastman Chemical Co. Preferably the optional coalescent is a low VOC coalescent such as is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 762 230 B2. The coating compositions preferably include a low VOC coalescent in an amount of at least about 0.5 weight more preferably at least about 1 weight and yet more preferably at least about 2 weight . The coating compositions also preferably include a low VOC coalescent in an amount of less than about 10 weight more preferably less than about 6 weight and yet more preferably less than about 4 weight based on the latex polymer weight.

The disclosed coating compositions may include a surface active agent surfactant that modifies the interaction of the coating composition with the substrate or with a prior applied coating. The surface active agent affects qualities of the composition including how the composition is handled how it spreads across the surface of the substrate and how it bonds to the substrate. In particular the agent can modify the ability of the composition to wet a substrate. Surface active agents may also provide leveling defoaming or flow control properties and the like. If used the surface active agent is preferably present in an amount of less than 5 weight based on the total coating composition weight. Exemplary surface active agents include those available under the trade designations STRODEX KK 95H STRODEX PLF100 STRODEX PKOVOC STRODEX LFK70 STRODEX SEK50D and DEXTROL OC50 from Dexter Chemical L.L.C. of Bronx N.Y. HYDROPALAT 100 HYDROPALAT 140 HYDROPALAT 44 HYDROPALAT 5040 and HYDROPALAT 3204 from Cognis Corp. of Cincinnati Ohio LIPOLIN A DISPERS 660C DISPERS 715W and DISPERS 750W from Degussa Corp. of Parsippany N.J. BYK 156 BYK 2001 and ANTI TERRA 207 from Byk Chemie of Wallingford Conn. DISPEX A40 DISPEX N40 DISPEX R50 DISPEX G40 DISPEX GA40 EFKA 1500 EFKA 1501 EFKA 1502 EFKA 1503 EFKA 3034 EFKA 3522 EFKA 3580 EFKA 3772 EFKA 4500 EFKA 4510 EFKA 4520 EFKA 4530 EFKA 4540 EFKA 4550 EFKA 4560 EFKA 4570 EFKA 6220 EFKA 6225 EFKA 6230 and EFKA 6525 from Ciba Specialty Chemicals of Tarrytown N.Y. SURFYNOL CT 111 SURFYNOL CT 121 SURFYNOL CT 131 SURFYNOL CT 211 SURFYNOL CT 231 SURFYNOL CT 136 SURFYNOL CT 151 SURFYNOL CT 171 SURFYNOL CT 234 CARBOWET DC 01 SURFYNOL 104 SURFYNOL PSA 336 SURFYNOL 420 SURFYNOL 440 ENVIROGEM AD 01 and ENVIROGEM AE01 from Air Products Chemicals Inc. of Allentown Pa. TAMOLM 1124 TAMOL 850 TAMOL 681 TAMOL 731 and TAMOL SG 1 from Rohm and Haas Co. of Philadelphia Pa. IGEPAL CO 210 IGEPAL CO 430 IGEPAL CO 630 IGEPAL CO 730 and IGEPAL CO 890 from Rhodia Inc. of Cranbury N.J. T DET and T MULZ products from Harcros Chemicals Inc. of Kansas City Kans. polydimethylsiloxane surface active agents such as those available under the trade designations SILWET L 760 and SILWET L 7622 from OSI Specialties South Charleston W. Va. or BYK 306 from Byk Chemie and fluorinated surface active agents such as that commercially available as FLUORAD FC 430 from 3M Co. St. Paul Minn. . The surface active agent may be a defoamer. Exemplary defoamers include BYK 018 BYK 019 BYK 020 BYK 022 BYK 025 BYK 032 BYK 033 BYK 034 BYK 038 BYK 040 BYK 051 BYK 060 BYK 070 BYK 077 and BYK 500 from Byk Chemie SURFYNOL DF 695 SURFYNOL DF 75 SURFYNOL DF 62 SURFYNOL DF 40 and SURFYNOL DF 11 OD from Air Products Chemicals Inc. DEEFO 3010A DEEFO 2020E 50 DEEFO 215 DEEFO 806 102 and AGITAN 31BP from Munzing Chemie GmbH of Heilbronn Germany EFKA 2526 EFKA 2527 and EFKA 2550 from Ciba Specialty Chemicals FOAMAX 8050 FOAMAX 1488 FOAMAX 7447 FOAMAX 800 FOAMAX 1495 and FOAMAX 810 from Degussa Corp. FOAMASTER 714 FOAMASTER A410 FOAMASTER 111 FOAMASTER 333 FOAMASTER 306 FOAMASTER SA 3 FOAMASTER AP DEHYDRAN 1620 DEHYDRAN 1923 and DEHYDRAN 671 from Cognis Corp.

Exemplary coating compositions may contain one or more optional pigments. Pigments suitable for use in the coating compositions will be known to persons having ordinary skill in the art or can be determined using standard methods. Exemplary pigments include titanium dioxide white carbon black lampblack black iron oxide red iron oxide yellow iron oxide brown iron oxide a blend of red and yellow oxide with black phthalocyanine green phthalocyanine blue organic reds such as naphthol red quinacridone red and toulidine red quinacridone magenta quinacridone violet DNA orange or organic yellows such as Hansa yellow . The composition can also include a gloss control additive or an optical brightener such as that commercially available under the trade designation UVITEX OB from Ciba Geigy.

In certain embodiments it is advantageous to include fillers or inert ingredients in the coating composition. Fillers or inert ingredients extend lower the cost of alter the appearance of or provide desirable characteristics to the composition before and after curing. Exemplary fillers or inert ingredients include for example clay glass beads calcium carbonate talc silicas feldspar mica barytes ceramic microspheres calcium metasilicates organic fillers and the like. For example the composition may include abrasion resistance promoting adjuvants such as silica or aluminum oxide e.g. sol gel processed aluminum oxide . Suitable fillers or inert ingredients are preferably present in an amount of less than 15 weight based on the total coating composition weight.

The disclosed coating compositions may include wax emulsions to improve coating physical performance or rheology control agents to improve application properties. Exemplary wax emulsions include MICHEM Emulsions 32535 21030 61335 80939M and 7173MOD from Michelman Inc. of Cincinnati Ohio and CHEMCOR 20N35 43A40 950C25 and 10N30 from ChemCor of Chester N.Y. Exemplary rheology control agents include RHEOVIS 112 RHEOVIS 132 RHEOVIS152 VISCALEX HV30 VISCALEX AT88 EFKA 6220 and EFKA 6225 from Ciba Specialty Chemicals BYK 420 and BYK 425 from Byk Chemie RHEOLATE 205 RHEOLATE 420 and RHEOLATE 1 from Elementis Specialties of Hightstown N.J. ACRYSOL L TT 615 ACRYSOL RM 5 ACRYSOL RM 6 ACRYSOL RM 8W ACRYSOL RM 2020 and ACRYSOL RM 825 from Rohm and Haas Co. NATROSOL 250LR from Hercules Inc. of Wilmington Del. and CELLOSIZE QP09L from Dow Chemical Co. of Midland Mich.

The disclosed coating compositions may include a biocide fungicide mildewcide or other preservative. Exemplary such materials include KATHON LX microbicide ROZONE 2000 fungicide and ROCIMA 80 algicide from Rohm Haas of Philadelphia Pa. the BUSAN series of bactericides fungicides and preservatives including BUSAN 1292 and 1440 from Buckman Laboratories of Memphis Tenn. the POLYPHASE series of bactericides fungicides and algaecides including POLYPHASE 663 and 678 from Troy Chemical Corp. of Florham Park N.J. the IRGAROL and NUOSEPT series of biocides including NUOSEPT 91 101 145 166 495 497 498 515 635W and 695 from International Specialties Products the FUNGITROL series of fungicides including FUNGITROL C 334 404D 720 920 960 2002 and 2010 from International Specialties Products and the DOWICIL series of antimicrobials and preservatives including DOWICIL 75 96 150 200 and QC 20 from Dow Chemical Co.

The coating composition may also include other adjuvants which modify properties of the coating composition as it is stored handled or applied and at other or subsequent stages. Desirable performance characteristics include chemical resistance abrasion resistance hardness gloss reflectivity appearance or combinations of these characteristics and other similar characteristics. Many suitable adjuvants are described in Koleske et al. Paint and Coatings Industry April 2003 pages 12 86 or will be familiar to those skilled in the art. Representative adjuvants include amines anti cratering agents colorants curing indicators dispersants dyes flatting agents e.g. BYK CERAFLOUR 920 from Byk Chemie glycols heat stabilizers leveling agents mar and abrasion additives optical brighteners plasticizers sedimentation inhibitors thickeners ultraviolet light absorbers and the like to modify properties.

The disclosed coating compositions preferably have a minimum film forming temperature MFFT about 0 to about 55 C. more preferably about 0 to about 20 C. when tested with a Rhopoint 1212 42 MFFT Bar 60 available from Rhopoint Instruments Ltd. of East Sussex United Kingdom. The coating compositions when dried or otherwise hardened may for example have a total thickness between about 5 and about 200 micrometers between about 10 and 150 micrometers or between about 15 and 100 micrometers. The compositions preferably have a PVC pigment volume concentration of less than about 50 percent more preferably less than about 35 percent and most preferably less than about 25 percent. The compositions preferably include less than 10 weight more preferably less than 7 weight and most preferably less than 4 weight total VOCs based upon the total composition weight.

The coating composition may be applied directly to the substrate or to an optionally sealed or primed substrate using any suitable application method. For example the coating composition may be roll coated sprayed curtain coated vacuum coated brushed or flood coated using an air knife system. For field applied coating systems e.g. cement garage floors floor tiles decks and the like the coating desirably is applied by rolling spraying or brushing. For factory applied applications preferred application methods provide a uniform coating thickness and are cost efficient. Especially preferred application methods employ factory equipment which moves a substrate with a first major surface past a coating head and thence past suitable drying or curing equipment. The coating composition desirably covers at least a portion of the first major surface of the substrate and preferably covers the entire first major surface in a substantially uniformly thick layer. Accordingly the disclosed coated articles preferably are coated on at least one major surface with the coating composition. More preferably the coated articles are coated on a major surface and up to four minor surfaces including any edges. Most preferably the coated articles are coated on all e.g. both major surfaces and up to four minor surfaces including any edges.

Preferred coatings resist crush damage. Coated products e.g. fiber cement siding products may be evaluated using a Visual Assessment of Crush Resistance test as described in U.S. Patent Application No. 2007 0110981 published May 17 2007 and the following 1 to 5 rating scale with 5 being essentially no damage and 1 being severe coating damage 

Preferred coatings also resist damage from hot tires. Coating substrates e.g. coated cementitious substrates may be evaluated by a visual assessment of hot tire pick up resistance as follows. Over a 6 6 15.24 15.24 cm pre cast concrete block the coating composition is applied at an application rate of 300 sq. ft. gal. 6.13 square meters per liter with a minimum coated area of 3 6 7.62 15.24 cm to accommodate an automobile tire section. After curing 4 hours a second coat is applied. The coating is allowed to cure for 7 days at 20 25 C. and 35 50 R.H. An automobile tire section measuring approximately 6 3 15.24 7.62 cm with wear approximating 6 000 to 10 000 miles 9660 to 16 090 km is used in the test. A forced convection laboratory oven is pre heated to 140 F. 2 F. 60 C. prior to placing the sample and tire sections into the oven for heated storage. After the coating has cured for 7 days the test sample is submerged in water at 20 25 C. for 16 hours prior to initiating the test. After removing the test sample from the water bath a wet cloth or towel is wrapped around the test sample making sure it contacts the coating and is placed in the pre heated oven. The tire section to be used is placed in the oven also though not on top of the sample at this point. Periodically the cloth towel is misted with water to maintain the moisture level. The test sample and tire section are allowed to remain in the oven for 1 hour. After 1 hour the test sample and tire section are removed from the oven and the cloth towel is removed from the test sample. The test sample is placed on the lower plate of a laboratory press with the coating facing up and then the tire section is placed on top of the sample centering the tire tread on the coated area of the sample. Using a contact area of 3 6 7.62 15.24 cm a force of 2700 lbs. 1 224 kg should be applied generating 150 psi 1 034 kPa . This is intended to simulate the effect of a 5000 lb. 2 267 kg vehicle driven onto the coated surface. The test sample and tire section is allowed to remain in the press for 1 hour. The press should be checked periodically to insure that the force applied remains constant. After 1 hour the tire section and test sample are removed and evaluated. Observations are made as to whether any of the coating has delaminated from the surface. The coating is further examined and any marring adhesion loss or any latent prints images left behind by the tire section are noted. In some cases an image or print of the tire section may be left behind but may not be readily visible unless the sample is tilted or observed at an angle. One portion of the coating should be cleaned with a commercial household cleaning product such as Formula 409 cleaner from The Clorox Company and it should be noted whether the cleaner has removed any prints or images that existed on the coating and whether the cleaner stained the coating. The coating should exhibit no declamation marring imprinting or other scuffing that cannot be removed by light cleaning with the household cleaner.

Wet Adhesion and Early Water Resistance may be evaluated using a modified version of ASTM D3359 02 carried out as follows. Two coats of the coating composition are applied 4 hours apart at a dry film thickness of 0.02 mm to a Black Carrara Glass panel and allowed to dry for a further four hours at ambient temperature. The coated panels are partially immersed in a water bath for a period of 16 18 hours. Immediately following the immersion period the paint films are evaluated for wet and dry adhesion using ASTM D3359 Test Method B. Wet Adhesion performance is rated based on the percent of coating removed. A visual inspection and subjective ratings of blister resistance and blush resistance are used to evaluate Early Water Resistance.

The following examples are offered to aid in understanding of the present invention and are not to be construed as limiting the scope thereof. Unless otherwise indicated all parts and percentages are by weight. The Tg inflection points were determined using a Q SERIES DSC thermal analysis instrument from TA Instruments of New Castle Del.

An exemplary multistage silane functional acetoacetyl functional latex polymer may be prepared as follows. A reactor is charged with 500 800 parts of deionized water and 2 6 parts emulsifier. The reaction mixture is heated to 75 80 C. under a nitrogen blanket. During heating pre emulsion 1 is formed having 75 250 parts of deionized water 2 9 parts of emulsifier 0.2 0.6 parts persulfate initiator 50 150 parts of butyl acrylate 0 200 parts of methylmethacrylate 250 450 parts of butyl methacrylate 0 40 parts of AAEM 0 15 parts vinyl silane and 5 30 parts of meth acrylic acid. In a separate vessel pre emulsion 2 is formed having 75 250 parts of deionized water 2 9 parts of emulsifier 0.2 0.6 parts persulfate initiator e.g. sodium persulfate 150 500 parts of methylmethacrylate 5 100 parts of butyl acrylate 0 40 parts of AAEM 0 15 parts vinyl silane and 5 30 parts of meth acrylic acid. After the reaction mixture reaches 75 C. 1 6 parts of persulfate initiator is added to the reactor and the pre emulsion 1 is added over a 1 3 hour feed rate. After pre emulsion 1 is added the container is rinsed with 20 parts deionized water and pre emulsion 2 is added over a 1 3 hour feed rate. The reaction temperature is held between 80 C. and 85 C. during polymerization. After the pre emulsion 2 feed is complete the container is rinsed with 20 parts of deionized water and the reaction is held 30 minutes. Post reaction addition of 0.5 1.5 parts t butyl hydroperoxide mixed with 20 parts of deionized water and 0.3 1.5 parts of isoascorbic acid mixed with 20 parts of deionized water are then added over 30 minutes. The resulting latex polymer is then cooled to 40 C. and 28 ammonia is added to adjust the pH to 7.5 8.5.

Using the method of Example 1 a multistage latex polymer was prepared from a first monomer mixture containing butyl acrylate methyl methacrylate butyl methacrylate AAEM acrylic acid and methacrylic acid and a second monomer mixture containing butyl acrylate methyl methacrylate AAEM and acrylic acid. Five parts AAEM were employed per 100 parts total monomer. 100 Parts of the multistage latex polymer were then combined with 0.8 parts glycidoxypropyltriethoxysilane. shows the DSC curve and demonstrates that the polymer exhibited two distinct Tg values namely a soft stage Tg at about 8.6 C. and a hard stage Tg at about 89.3 C. Solids were 40 and the MMFT was less than 10 C.

Using the method of Example 1 a silane functional multistage latex polymer was prepared from a first monomer mixture containing butyl acrylate methyl methacrylate butyl methacrylate AAEM A 171 vinyl silane acrylic acid and methacrylic acid and a second monomer mixture containing methyl methacrylate butyl acrylate AAEM A 171 vinyl silane and acrylic acid. Five parts AAEM and 0.8 parts vinyl silane were employed per 100 parts total monomer. shows the DSC curve and demonstrates that the polymer exhibited two distinct Tg values namely a soft stage Tg at about 7.2 C. and a hard stage Tg at about 92.5 C. Solids were 40 and the MMFT was less than 10 C.

In a method like that of Example 2 the Example 1 multistage latex polymer could be combined with 0.8 parts aminopropyltriethoxysilane rather than 0.8 parts glycidoxy propyltriethoxysilane. The aminopropyltriethoxysilane would react at room temperature with the acetoacetyl functionality in the multistage latex polymer.

An exemplary coating composition may be prepared as follows. In a mixing vessel equipped with a high speed mixer and mixing blade mixer are charged 10 to 50 parts water and 40 to 85 parts of a multistage latex polymer solution. If desired 0 to 20 parts other non pigment additives may be introduced. If desired for example to make a pigmented coating rather than a clearcoat up to about 50 parts of pigments or flatting agents may be introduced.

Two representative coating compositions were prepared by combining the ingredients shown below in Table 1 in the following order 

A method for preparing a coated article which method comprises providing a cementitious substrate coating at least a portion of the substrate with an aqueous coating composition comprising a silane functional multistage latex polymer and allowing the coating composition to harden.

A method according to paragraph 0076 wherein the multistage latex polymer is formed by chain growth polymerization in the presence of a silane coupling agent containing a functional group capable of copolymerizing with a monomer from which the multistage latex polymer is formed.

A method according to paragraph 0077 wherein the silane coupling agent contains an ethylenically unsaturated group.

A method according to paragraph 0077 wherein the silane functional multistage polymer contains about 0.2 to about 10 weight silane based on a comparison of silane coupling agent weight to latex polymer weight.

A method according to paragraph 0077 wherein the silane functional multistage polymer contains about 0.5 to about 6 weight silane based on a comparison of silane coupling agent weight to latex polymer weight.

A method according to paragraph 0076 wherein the multistage latex polymer is made silane functional by reacting an already formed multistage latex polymer with a silane coupling agent having a functional group which reacts with the already formed polymer.

A method according to paragraph 0082 wherein the silane coupling agent comprises an epoxy silane or amino silane.

A method according to paragraph 0076 wherein the multistage latex polymer comprises at least one soft stage having a Tg between about 65 and about 30 C. and at least one hard stage having a Tg between about 30 and about 230 C.

A method according to paragraph 0076 wherein the multistage latex polymer comprises 50 to 90 weight soft stage polymer morphology having a Tg between about 5 and 25 C. and 10 to 50 weight hard stage polymer morphology having a Tg between about 30 and 105 C. based on total polymer weight.

A method according to paragraph 0076 wherein the multistage latex polymer has acetoacetoxy functionality.

A coated article comprising a cementitious substrate having at least one major surface on which is coated a layer comprising an aqueous coating composition comprising a silane functional multistage latex polymer.

An article according to paragraph 0088 wherein the substrate comprises fencing roofing flooring decking wall boards shower boards lap siding vertical siding soffit panels trim boards shaped edge shingle replicas stone replicas or stucco replicas.

An article according to paragraph 0088 wherein the coating composition has a pigment volume concentration less than 45 .

An article according to paragraph 0088 wherein the coating composition has a minimum film forming temperature less than about 20 C.

An article according to paragraph 0088 wherein the coating composition when dried or otherwise hardened has a total thickness between about 10 and about 150 micrometers.

An article according to paragraph 0088 wherein the coating composition when dried or otherwise hardened has a Crush Resistance value of at least 3 when two face to face coated embossed fiber cement board substrates are subjected to a pressure of about 8 kg cm.

An article according to paragraph 0088 wherein the multistage latex polymer is formed by chain growth polymerization in the presence of a silane coupling agent containing a functional group capable of copolymerizing with a monomer from which the multistage latex polymer is formed.

An article according to paragraph 0095 wherein the silane coupling agent contains an ethylenically unsaturated group.

An article according to paragraph 0095 wherein the silane functional multistage polymer contains about 0.2 to about 10 weight silane based on a comparison of silane coupling agent weight to latex polymer weight.

An article according to paragraph 0088 wherein the multistage latex polymer comprises at least one soft stage having a Tg between about 65 and about 30 C. and at least one hard stage having a Tg between about 30 and about 230 C.

An article according to paragraph 0088 wherein the multistage latex polymer comprises 50 to 90 weight soft stage polymer morphology having a Tg between about 5 and 25 C. and 10 to 50 weight hard stage polymer morphology having a Tg between about 30 and 105 C. based on total polymer weight.

An article according to paragraph 0088 wherein the multistage latex polymer has acetoacetoxy functionality.

All patents patent applications and literature cited in the specification are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. In the case of any inconsistencies the present disclosure including any definitions therein will prevail. The invention has been described with reference to various specific and preferred embodiments and techniques. However it should be understood that many variations and modifications may be made while remaining within the invention.

Having thus described the preferred embodiments of the present invention those of skill in the art will readily appreciate that the teachings found herein may be applied to yet other embodiments within the scope of the attached claims.

