---

title: Apparatus, system and method for exchanging lead information
abstract: An apparatus, system and method is described for exchanging lead information in a bid process that provides end users, consumers, lead buyers, aggregators and sellers that aggregate the leads through marketing a platform to bid on the leads based on pre-determined criteria such as zip code, buy price field, etc without having duplicate lead information pass to any one entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08010416&OS=08010416&RS=08010416
owner: Lead Bid, Inc.
number: 08010416
owner_city: Islip
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081111
---
This application incorporates by reference in its entirety and takes priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 987 346 entitled AN APPARATUS SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR EXCHANGING LEAD INFORMATION filed Nov. 12 2007.

The present invention relates generally to an apparatus system and method for internet based commerce for exchanging sales lead information in a bid process while preventing duplicate leads from being passed from one party to another.

In prior art systems buyers and sellers are linked together to allow buyers to purchase lead information for individuals in the sub prime credit application category. Information is exchanged for example in the auto industry by buyers purchasing lead information from multiple third part sellers.

However current systems have a deficiency in that duplicate lead information is prevalent which increases cost and administrative time. Current systems do not provide the ability to cross reference lead information to prevent duplicate leads from passing to buyers hence costing the buyer unnecessary fees for stale or repeat information.

What is needed is a wholesale auction platform that prevents duplicate lead information. Since many lead buyers have contractual agreements with multiple lead providers a problem that many face is that they will be receiving the same lead information more than once each time from a different provider. There is a need to solve this problem for the buyer by mandating that the seller uses a specific platform to sell leads to the buyer. For each lead that any seller wants to sell the lead buyer there is a need for an invention that uses a duplication check process to ensure the information contained in the lead has not already been bought by the buyer.

An apparatus system and method for exchanging lead information in a bid process that provides end users consumers lead buyers and aggregators and sellers that aggregate the leads through marketing so the buyers can bid on the leads based on pre determined criteria such as zip code buy price field etc all without receiving duplicate lead information.

In a first aspect the present invention includes a system for exchanging lead information in a bid process including three major modules 

1. Lite Dealer Account Module A major problem in the lead industry is lead buyers receiving duplicate leads from multiple providers. There exists a need to alleviate this problem at the source. The so called Lite Dealer Account ensures that end user lead buyers do not receive duplicate leads by mandating that the seller of the lead sells the lead directly to the end user via a specific platform. The present invention uses various methods to ensure that each lead sold to each buyer is not a lead that they have previously purchased.

2. Full Dealer Account Module End users may sign up for the Wholesale Auction Platform. Since they are end users and not technology companies they do not have the technology to bid on and receive leads in real time. An Auto Bid process is created where the end users choose which types of leads they would like to receive and the price they would like to pay for them. The present invention includes processes that then place a bid on their behalf when a lead which they have indicated they have interest in becomes available for sale on the Wholesale Auction Platform.

3. Wholesale Auction Platform Module The wholesale auction platform is a real time auction platform that connects lead sellers with lead buyers. When a lead is presented to a lead purchase web site for sale on the platform the platform notifies all potential buyers and automatically places bids for Full Dealer Accounts.

In a second aspect the present invention includes a method for exchanging sales lead including collecting lead information for at least one buyer including gathering and storing product information and buyer information identifying at least one seller based upon a first set of predetermined criteria transferring seller lead information to buyer and providing the least one with seller information.

In a third aspect the present invention includes a method for exchanging sales leads the method including selecting at least one buyer from a group of potential buyers collecting lead information for the selected buyer including gathering and storing product information and buyer information verifying the lead information for the selected buyer determining whether the lead information is duplicative identifying at least one seller based upon a first set of predetermined criteria transferring seller lead information to the at least one buyer and providing the selected buyer with seller information.

In some embodiments the present invention includes determining whether the selected buyer has a relationship with the seller and whether the seller has elected to not conduct business with the selected buyer.

In some embodiments the present invention includes selecting at least one buyer from a group of potential buyers includes determining whether each of the potential buyers has an active profile whether each profile for each of the potential buyers contains bid criteria matching the seller and for the group of potential buyers determining which buyer bid criteria contains a highest bid.

In some embodiments the present invention includes weighting each of the potential buyers contains bid criteria.

In some embodiments the present invention verifying the lead information includes determining whether lead constraint rules have been applied to the lead information.

In some embodiments the present invention determining whether the lead information is duplicative includes determining whether the lead information is either PING data or POST data.

In some embodiments the present invention includes determining whether a social security for the buyer matches another lead and when POST data is determined determining whether an email address or a home telephone number for the buyer matches another lead.

In some embodiments the present invention includes rating the seller buyers and the lead information and returning process information to the seller.

In some embodiments the present invention includes parsing the lead information into a POST rule file for each selected buyer and determining for each POST rule whether the POST rule has an alias.

In some embodiments the present invention includes determining for each POST rule whether the POST rule has a constant rule or whether the POST rule is a regular expression.

In a fourth aspect the present invention includes an apparatus for exchanging sales leads the apparatus consisting of a computer system having a hard drive a microprocessor and a graphical user interface the apparatus including an internet based software application stored on the hard drive the internet based software application for facilitating interactions between users and the apparatus a login module communicatively coupled to the internet based software application where the login module contains a security element for allowing authorized users to access the apparatus an administration module communicatively coupled to the internet based software application where the administration module contains a software programmed to service internet web pages relating to the administration of the apparatus a bid module communicatively coupled to the internet based software application the bid module structured and arrange to accept incoming bids from users a profiles module communicatively coupled to the internet based software application the profiles module for storing and modifying user profiles on the hard drive a buyer module communicatively coupled to the internet based software application the buyer module for providing web content for users 

a seller module communicatively coupled to the internet based software application the seller module for providing web content for sellers a search module communicatively coupled to the internet based software application the search module accessible by buyers and sellers and allowing such buyers and sellers to search the hard drive for information about each other 

a transaction module communicatively coupled to the internet based software application the transaction module for storing transaction related information on the hard drive and

a lead module communicatively coupled to the internet based software application the lead module containing lead content displayable to the buyers and sellers.

In some embodiments the present invention includes markets module communicatively coupled to the internet based software application the markets module for providing market research data to users.

The present disclosure will now be described more fully with reference to the Figures in which an embodiment of the present disclosure is shown. The subject matter of this disclosure may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as being limited to the embodiments set forth herein. The present invention shall be considered in light of the following defined terms of art 

Lead. The most basic description of a Lead is data about a consumer who has expressed interest in buying a product. In this connection the present invention is designed to service consumers searching for various products which products may include but is not limited to the following 

Lead Applicant Consumer. The consumer that is interested in purchasing a product. Their information is contained in the lead which is being processed within the present invention. The Lead Generator defined below usually obtains the consumer s information by having them fill out an application.

Application. A form usually maintained by the Lead Generator which a consumer fills out thus indicating their interest in purchasing a particular product 

Lead Data. The data about the consumer contained in the lead data. The data includes a full name contact methods employment information information about their income and in some cases their Social Security number. The lead data once it has been stored in the system has a unique Lead ID Number associated with it.

Lead ID Number. When a lead is submitted into the system it is assigned a unique ID code consisting of ten random letters and numbers. This is done in order to obfuscate the actual ID number which to tech savvy Information Technology personnel will represent itself as an auto incrementing integer which would provide clues about sale statistics consistent with the present invention such as the number of sales processed in a given period .

Target Audience. The present invention is designed to service the lead industry. The industry is comprised of three types of parties including Lead Generators Lead Wholesalers and Lead Buyers.

XML Data. XML Extensible Markup Language is a general purpose markup language used in the context of the platform for the present invention to convey a set of information about a lead applicant.

UWL Encoded Data. The encoding of data fields which convey a set of information about a lead applicant such that it can be used in the POST mechanism of an HTTP communication according to RFC 3986.

Lead Bid Web Site. The front end Internet interface for the platform of the present invention that includes both buyers and sellers.

Partnership. The present invention enables buyers and sellers to choose which parties they would like to do business with. The present invention will never present an opportunity to purchase a lead to a buyer who has elected not to do business with that seller.

Lite Dealer Account services Lead Buyers. Lead Buyers typically have a contractual agreement with any number of Lead Wholesalers or Lead Generators. This agreement normally specifies any or all of the following criteria 

Although not required the invention can be implemented via an application programming interface API for use by a developer or tester and or included within the network browsing software which will be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers e.g. client workstations servers or other devices . Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations. Other well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers PCs automated teller machines server computers hand held or laptop devices multi processor systems microprocessor based systems programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. An embodiment of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an example system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data . RAM may contain other data and or program modules.

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the example operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that a computer or other client devices can be deployed as part of a computer network. In this regard the present invention pertains to any computer system having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units or volumes. An embodiment of the present invention may apply to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment having remote or local storage. The present invention may also apply to a standalone computing device having programming language functionality interpretation and execution capabilities.

Now referring to the Lite Dealer Account module process is shown according to one embodiment of the present invention. A Lead Generator will use various methods including email pay per click advertising or search engine results to entice a Lead Applicant to fill in an application requesting their information and thus indicating their interest in purchasing a product.

Regarding e mail marketing the consumer has indicated at some point in the past that they are interested in receiving special offers for products that they may be interested in. The Lead Generator utilizes a list containing the e mail address of such consumers as well as generally their name and sometimes additional information about them. The generator sends an e mail to each of the consumers on this list hoping to garner their interest in whatever product they are interested in selling them. When the consumer responds to this e mail they are often presented with an application of some sort. The consumer provides their detailed information to the lead generator and this information becomes a Lead .

Regarding pay per click advertising the Lead Generator has agreements with various search engines and websites to display advertisements on their websites. These advertisements which are usually contextual e.g. an advertisement for an auto loan application may appear on a web page containing information about the automotive industry attempt to entice a lead applicant to click on the advertisement. When the consumer clicks the advertisement they are often presented with an application of some sort. The consumer provides their detailed information to the lead generator and this information becomes a Lead .

Regarding search engine results the Lead Generator lists their web site which usually contains an application of some sort with the major search engines such as Google Yahoo Ask or MSN . When a consumer utilizes one of these services to find a place to purchase a particular product if the Lead Gienerator s website is among the results the consumer will visit the website. The consumer provides their detailed information to the lead generator and this information becomes a Lead .

Once the Lead Generator has generated the lead it determines who it would like to sell the lead to. If the generator has a contractual agreement with a buyer who has signed up to use the Lead Bid Lite Dealer Account platform then they begin the process of selling to the lead buyer .

The process of selling the lead to a buyer subscribed to the Lite Dealer Account involves various steps. The seller performs the PING process described in further detail in connection with below. If the PING process indicates a negative result the seller is unable to sell the lead to the buyer using the Lead Bid Platform . If the PING process indicates a positive result the seller continues to the next step in the process. The seller is notified of the positive response to the PING message and thus the buyer s intent to purchase the lead . The seller submits the lead in its entirety using the POST Process Seller Lead Bid described in further detail in connection with . The full lead information is then submitted to the Lead Verification Process . If the Lead Verification Process indicates a positive result the process moves on to the Duplication Check Process . If the Lead Verification Process indicates a negative result the lead seller is notified that its lead data contains invalid data. The full lead information moves towards the Duplication Check Process described in further detail in connection with . If the Duplication Check Process indicates a positive result the process moves on to the sale finalization process . If the Duplication Check Process indicates a negative result the lead seller is notified that the lead cannot be sold to this seller using the Lead Bid Platform . A specific reason is not given to the seller other than that the lead has been determined to be a duplicate. A record of the rejected lead is made containing information useful to Lead Bid internally The would be lead buyer is notified via the Lead Bid Web Site discussed in connection with below.

In the sale finalization process the lead has been sold by the lead seller to the lead buyer. A record of the transaction is made the record is in part used for the Market Data . The Lead Buyer can access the Lead Bid Web site to retrieve their lead. The Lead Seller is then notified in the response to the HTTP request a confirmation number Lead ID . The seller is notified that the transaction is completed however the details pertaining to the agreement that the seller has with the buyer pricing information etc may not be disclosed for privacy reasons.

The first step in the sale process is called the PING Process . The process is used by the lead seller to determine the buyer s and thus the Lead Bid Platform acting on behalf of the buyer s interests interest in buying the lead. A minimal subset of information about the lead is submitted to the Lead Bid Platform . This small amount of information helps the Lead Bid Platform determine in part whether or not the lead is acceptable to the system not a lead which the seller has received before . This process includes various steps including the seller compiling the minimal subset of information as demanded by the Integration Specifications. The seller may prepare the subset to be presented to the Lead Bid Platform again in accordance with the integration specifications. The format of the data can be either XML or URL Encoded.

The seller may establish a connection to the Lead Bid web server in accordance with a user s HTTP specification. The connection is made securely via SSL TLS Secure Sockets Layer. The seller may inform the Lead Bid web server that it would like to use the HTTP POST mechanism to post data to the document specified by the Integration Specifications. The seller may use the HTTP POST mechanism to submit the PING data to the Lead Bid web server. The Lead Bid Platform may receive the request from the seller and utilizes either an XML parser or URL encoded data parser to turn the information into computer readable data. Lead Bid determines whether the data is URL encoded or XML data by analyzing the Content Type incoming HTTP header.

The Lead Bid Platform may determine if the data contained in the PING request is valid according to the Lead Verification Process described in further detail in connection with .

If and only if the information in the PING request is valid the Lead Bid Platform determines via the Duplication Check Process and using the minimal subset of information contained in the PING request whether or not the lead may be a duplicate. Using the verification and duplicate checking process a positive or negative response is generated. Both the seller and the buyer are notified of this failure. A detailed record of the failure is inserted into the database for internal use by the Lead Bid Platform .

The seller is notified of the failure in the response to the HTTP request and typically the response is in XML format. In the case that the PING data was invalid as determined by the Lead Verification process the seller is notified of the exact problem that occurred with the data. In the case that the PING data represented a lead which would be considered a duplicate the seller is notified only that the lead is a duplicate. The seller is not notified of the exact reason or methodology that Lead Bid used to determine that the data represents a lead already bought by the buyer.

The buyer is notified of the failure only in the case that the PING data represented a lead which would be considered a duplicate. The data is available on the Lead Bid Web Site in the form of a count of the total leads rejected by the platform for duplication. This helps the buyer see the usefulness of the platform. If the PING process produces a positive result the seller is notified in the HTTP response of the buyer s intent to purchase the lead .

Referring now to the Wholesale Auction Platform is described. As with the Lite Dealer Account Module of a Lead Generator will similarly use methods including email pay per click advertising or search engine results to entice a Lead Applicant to fill in an application requesting their information and thus indicating their interest in purchasing a product. Once the Lead Generator has generated the lead it begins the process of selling the lead through the platform. The process of selling the lead via the Lead Bid Platform involves various steps. The Lead Generator utilizes the POST Process Seller Lead Bid described in further detail in connection with to transmit lead data to Lead Bid Platform . The lead data includes a minimum price which the seller considers acceptable for the lead. The Lead Verification Process is implemented so the Lead Bid Platform may ensure that all data in the lead is valid. If the Lead Verification Process returns a negative result the lead will not be sold by the Lead Bid Platform step . The seller is notified of the failure in the POST response with a detailed error message. If the Lead Verification Process returns a positive result the Lead Bid Platform moves on to the next step which is the Duplication Check Process . One the Duplication Check Process is initiated a it may return a negative result and if so the lead will not be sold by the Lead Bid Platform . The seller is notified of the failure in the POST response but not given the specific methodology used by the Lead Bid Platform to determine duplicity.

If the Duplication Check Process returns a positive result the Lead Bid Platform process moves forward. Lead Bid notifies the seller of its intent to offer the lead to buyers in auction via the POST Response mechanism . The Lead Bid Platform then sends a POST Response to the seller where typically the response is in XML format and includes a unique Lead ID Number.

The Lead Bid web server creates a record of a sale which is pending and sends an electronic notice regarding the sale. The remainder of the process is handled asynchronously by a leadbidd sale processing daemon as described in further detail in connection with .

Referring now to the leadbidd sales processing daemon is discussed. The leadbidd sales processing daemon is a separate application which runs in the background at all times and processes sales and live auctions. Due to the volume handled by the Lead Bid Platform and the non persistent nature of HTTP connections it is necessary to have a background application to do the processing of sales. Upon startup the leadbidd sales processing daemon creates multiple polling threads . The number of threads of execution created depends on a compile time configuration option. A greater amount of polling threads enables the leadbidd application to process a larger amount of sales simultaneously. Each thread polls the database at specified regular intervals to determine if there are any pending sales to be processed. If there are not the thread switches into an idle state for the specified interval and resumes by again polling the database. If there are pending sales waiting to be processed the thread moves independently to the Sale Completion Process described in further detail in connection with .

The Sale Completion Process begins when the leadbidd sales processing daemon initiates the process. Information about the sale is gathered including who the seller is the geographical location of the consumer the minimum price for the lead the status of the sale either pending or active and the time of the last status update. Upon obtaining all of the pertinent information about the sale the sale is examined to determine its status . If the sale s status is pending then it is a new sale which has not been processed yet .

If the sale s status is active and the sale s status was changed from pending more than X seconds ago where X is the sale length time specified by the configuration of the program usually 120 seconds the Lead Bid Platform flows to the process Active Sale Processing . A sale that is pending is a sale which has Y moments ago been created as the result of a seller submitting a valid lead for sale in the Seller Lead Bid POST Process. The Buyer Selection Process is then initiated which is described in further detail in connection with .

If potential buyers are not found the Lead Bid platform is unable to sell the lead because of a lack of eligible buyers or a lack of buyers who have expressed interest in purchasing the lead. Sellers are notified of this via the Lead Bid web site. If potential buyers are found through the buyer selection process the Lead Bid platform moves to the wholesale PING process .

In the wholesale PING process a PING message IS asynchronously sent to all potential buyers returned by the buyer selection process. This process is described in more detail in connection with . Each buyer is sent a minimal subset of information in the lead data.

A sale that is an active sale which has been active for greater than the amount of time specified by the configuration is processed using this method . The sale remains active long enough for all potential buyers to be notified of the opportunity to purchase the lead offered in the sale and given enough time to respond to the opportunity by placing a bid if they so desire.

All bids that were placed by potential buyers of this lead are gathered and reviewed. If there were no bids from potential buyers of this lead the lead cannot be sold . In this case a record of the inability to sell the lead is made and the seller is notified by way of the Lead Bid web site.

A determination is made regarding which buyer placed the highest bid for the lead. In the event that two or more buyers have entered the same high bid a selection of one of the buyers as the winner is made. A buyer may be attributed a weight and a determination may be made that a certain buyer meets arbitrary criteria for receiving a more favorable result in a tie breaker . If a buyer has a weight then their weighted bid is the product of their actual bid and their weight factor. For example if the buyer s weight factor is 2.0 and the buyer has placed a bid for 4 they may be declared them the winner of the auction if no other bidders have placed a bid or weighted bid that is greater than 8.

If after bid weighting two or more buyers still have the same high bid one of the high bidders is selected randomly . At this point the winner of the auction is selected and this user will go on to receive the lead. Since many buyers use entirely different systems for processing incoming lead data the POST Adaptation process is implemented as described further detail in connection with . The lead data is adapted to the format required by the buyer s integration specifications before being sent to the buyer.

The Lead Bid Buyer POST process is initiated as described in further detail in connection with and the lead buyer is sent the lead data which originated from the lead seller. The buyer can refuse or reject the lead based on their own internal criteria. Originally the buyer had just the minimal subset of information contained in the PING enough to indicate possible interest in purchasing the lead. Now that they have all of the information they may choose to reject it based on their own internal criteria.

If the Lead Bid Buyer POST process returns a positive result from the buyer then the lead was accepted and the Lead Bid Platform may move to the next step. If the process returns a negative result they rejected the lead the Lead Bid Platform may return to the bid selection process to determine the winning bidder again this time excluding this buyer that has rejected the lead. If there are no remaining bids the lead cannot be sold .

At this stage the lead has been sold and a record is created recording the sale. The buyer of the lead has received the lead already during the Lead Bid Buyer POST process . The database and web site are updated to reflect the sale and the transaction . The lead becomes searchable by both the buyer and seller and each party can view the lead on the Lead Bid web site. The seller is billed a percentage of the final sale price . A transaction record is created noting the lead ID number the time the transaction took place and the amount the seller was billed for the transaction.

The POST Adaptation process begins with all of the data contained in a lead end ends with data formatted in the way mandated by the buyer s integration specifications. In between these two stages lay the POST Adaptation code which adapts the lead data to the buyer s format using a series of rules.

Upon stat up of the leadbidd application the application parses and processes the POST rule file . The POST rule file is a plain text file containing all of the rules necessary to communicate with all of the user s clients. Standard operating system methods are used for reading from the file and internal code to understand the meaning of each line in the file. The rules are stored for later use.

Each rule is a single field name which will be outputted in the buyer s requested format XML URL Encoded etc . For each field that the buyer requires there may be one of many different types of rules applied to that data. In the POST Adapter Code the POST Adapter is sent a request from the Sale Completion Process to adapt lead data to a specific buyer s format. The application gathers information previously retrieved in step related to the individual buyer. During the buyer selection process which happens separately and will have retrieved the section of the POST rule file which applies to the individual buyer . The final output data is formed based on the rules supplied in the POST rule file. For each rule in the buyer s POST rule section the application determines if there is a simple alias or constant rule .

In the case that it is a simple alias or constant rule either the constant string in the rule or the data corresponding with the field name is appended. For example if the buyer requires the res zip field the zip code field as the Lead Bid Platform stores it internally to be called zip code the lead applicant s zip code is appended to the final output as a field named zip code .

If there is a more complex rule it may be one of four different types. The type of rule is determined before actually determining what data should be outputted. In the case that this is a substring rule the rule states that a portion of the data as it is defined is outputted. An example would be if the buyer requires the home telephone number of the lead applicant to be in three separate fields. The first through third digit for the first field may be extracted as well as the fourth through sixth digit for the second field and so on .

In the case that this is a regular expression rule the buyer requires the information in this field in such a way that makes simple substrings data aliases or concatenation impossible to produce a satisfactory result. The application uses a regular expression to process the data stored by the user capturing one or more back references which will represent the final output .

In the case that this is a data alias the buyer requires information to be presented in such a way that a regular expression substring or concatenation cannot be used. The data is usually of constant value for example a seller might require yes or no to be used instead of a 1 or 0 . The data is replaced and appended to the final output . In the case that this is a concatenation two or more fields from the user data must be combined to make one full output field. The fields are combined and appended to the final output .

Once the rule has been understood and the final data for this rule determined the field is appended to the final POST output and returned to process any remaining rules if any . Once all of the rules have been processed the final formatted POST data is returned to the caller and the lead data has been adapted to the buyer s specific format.

The Wholesale PING Process includes multiple steps. The system creates the minimum amount of PING threads allowed. The minimum amount is defined by the program s configuration. Each thread that is created and is responsible for sending a PING message to an individual buyer. The sending of PINGs happens in a loop. For each buyer a PING is sent under various conditions. For example if there is a PING thread which is idle and not currently communicating with a potential buyer . If there is an idle PING thread the process moves to the next step. If all currently created PING threads are busy communicating with other buyers a determination is made regarding whether there are sufficient system resources to create another thread.

If there are sufficient system resources another buyer PING thread is created. This new thread is then communicated to the buyer. If there are not sufficient system resources the Wholesale PING Process re iterates in the loop until sufficient resources become available or a ping thread becomes idle finished it s work . Each newly created PING thread is instructed to send out a PING .

Inside the actual PING process having been given the lead ID by the Wholesale PING Process the pertinent information about the lead is reviewed. The potential buyer is then given a small subset of information about the lead including but not limited to the public lead ID the lead applicant s zip code and their gross monthly income if applicable by the lead type.

A PING message is then constructed from the lead details obtained in . The PING message is formatted according to the buyer s specifications. Having selected the potential buyer s account details during the Buyer Selection Process their PING URL is determined from their preferences. Each buyer sets a PING URL which points to their own web application which will process the PING request. A connection is then established to the buyer s web server specified by their PING URL over the HTTP protocol . The PING data is then submitted using the HTTP POST mechanism . The buyer is instructed by the Wholesale PING Process to handle the PING request asynchronously where the user does not wait for an HTTP response from the buyer. The connection is closed after five seconds if no response is given.

The present invention will not offer a buyer an opportunity to purchase a lead under all conditions. There are certain conditions that must be met including that the buyer indicated that they would like to do business with the seller or that the seller has indicated that either they would like to do business with the seller or that they would like to do business with any buyer who they have not explicitly stated that they would not like to do business with. In certain conditions the system will not allow an offer such as when the seller has not explicitly indicated that they would not like to do business with the buyer.

The Buyer Selection Process for a lead is an iterative process. A connection with the database is established . A list is selected including all accounts in the system which is wholesale buyer accounts or auto bid buyer accounts. The iterative process then begins. By performing the steps for each account selected . A determination is made regarding whether this buyer has established an explicit partnership with the seller . If the buyer has not they have not indicated that they have interest in purchasing any leads from this seller and the system moves back to process the next buyer selected.

Then a determination is made whether the seller has explicitly elected not to do business with this buyer if the seller has explicitly stated that they would like to do business with this buyer or if the seller has expressed interest in selling their leads to all buyers regardless of their explicit statement that they would like to . If these conditions are not met the system moves back to purchase the next buyer selected. This buyer is not eligible to purchase this lead.

Once a valid prospective buyer for this lead has been selected the system determines that this is an account where both buyer and seller have stated that they would like to do business with each other. There is a determination made regarding whether this buyer is a normal wholesale buyer the location to send a PING message to or if performance of the AutoBid process is appropriate.

If this buyer is a normal wholesale buyer account the information is returned to the caller which will perform the Wholesale PING process for this buyer . If this buyer is an account which has been subscribed to the AutoBid process that process is performed . If there are more buyers to process the system returns to to process them.

The buyer specifies different criteria in what known as profiles . The buyer may have an unlimited number of criteria assigned to an unlimited number of profiles. A profile specifies the time and day of the week which it activates and deactivates. This system is in place so that buyers may opt to bid higher and thus have a better chance of winning leads at the time of the week when they are more valuable to them. For example an automotive dealership buying car loan leads may have higher foot traffic or more available salespeople on the weekend and thus may want to purchase more leads for this time.

Based on the criteria specified by the buyer the Lead Bid Platform may automatically place a bid on a lead that is for sale on the buyer s behalf. If the lead is purchased by the buyer the Lead Bid platform handles all transaction details and accepts the lead on their behalf. The lead is then viewable on the Lead Bid web site. The AutoBid process includes various steps. There is an iteration through the profiles in the buyer s account . For each profile listed in the buyer s account there is a determination regarding whether or not the profile is currently active. For example if the profile is set to be active between Friday at 8 am and Sunday at 9 pm and the current date and time represents that time period then the profile is currently active. If the profile under examination is not currently active the system moves back to examine any remaining profiles on the account.

If the profile is active the Lead Bid Platform may select all of the criteria which is listed with this time profile . Each criteria listed could contain specific requests to purchase a lead based on the above criteria possibilities. Each criteria also contains a price which they are willing to pay for a lead matching that criteria.

There is a determination regarding whether the criteria selected matches the lead data in the lead being sold . If it the criteria does not match this lead then the criteria does not apply to the lead and the Lead Bid platform continues to iterate through the remaining criteria attached to this profile. If the criteria matches the criteria is stored internally in a linked list of criteria which is currently active and valid for the lead being sold . Upon finding criteria which matches the lead and is currently active the linked list of criteria is sorted in order to find the criteria with the highest bid amount . A bid is then placed on behalf of this buyer for the lead that is being offered .

Full details about each lead data field and the requirements set forth by the lead constraints configuration file are provided to the seller by way of the integration specifications.

In order to verify that the data contained in the lead fields conforms to the user s constraints an iterative process is implemented that examines each rule and compares it with the corresponding field . Thus for each rule certain checks are made including a check to ensure that the field corresponding to this rule is present in the lead data . If it is not the system stops immediately and reports the error to the caller . This is included in the response to the caller .

Each rule is a regular expression which represents the required format of the data hence knowing that the data exists. The regular expression is compared with the data contained in the field and if the regular expression matches the test subject the next step is processed. If it does not the lead data in this field is invalid. A human readable error message about the error is appended to the error response and the system moves on to process the next rule.

There is a validation step ensuring by way of a national zip code database that the zip code is a valid U.S. zip code . This is accomplished by searching the zip code in a local database. If the zip code is not present in the database the zip code is not valid. A human readable error message about the error is appended to the error response.

A duplication check is then performed . If the lead is deemed to be a duplicate a human readable error message about the error is appended to the error response. In the event that any lead data is deemed to be invalid a human readable error message and an error code as described by the integration specifications is appended to the error response message which will eventually be sent to the seller

A determination is made regarding whether there were any errors with the lead data that was submitted . If there were no errors a positive response is sent to the seller. The response includes a confirmation code which is the public lead ID number. The exact response is detailed in the integration specifications. If there were errors a negative response is sent to the seller. The response indicates a code for each error that occurred as well as a human readable error message. The response that was created to the caller is returned and the caller forwards the response to the seller.

The database is accessed to retrieve the buyer s account information and preferences. Stored among the preferences is the URL that will be submitted the lead to . A connection to the buyer s web server is established using the HTTP protocol and then the lead data is transmitted using the HTTP POST mechanism .

Using the same POST Adaptation Process the buyer s response to the POST is converted to data which can be understood . A Boolean value is derived stating whether or not the buyer has accepted the lead the buyer s confirmation code if any and the error message if any . A determination is made regarding whether the buyer has accepted the lead using the Boolean value in their response to our POST. If the buyer has not accepted the lead a negative response is logged in the database . The user may later their account to determine if excessive leads have been denied and take appropriate measures. Since the buyer is given the full lead information so that they may make a decision on whether or not to buy the lead the buyer could effectively be given the lead for free. Thereafter the buyer s response to the caller of this process is returned.

Three pieces of data are used use to compare leads for duplicity including the lead applicant s social security number e mail address and home telephone number. This data is present for all leads and should be unique among lead applicants. Only the social security number field is available during the PING process. A lead which has been submitted 30 days prior to the lead being submitted does not count towards duplicity. The process requires multiple steps with only the first step happening during the PING duplication check

There is a search for existing leads in the system submitted within the last 30 days with the same social security number of the lead being submitted . If any such lead exists the process returns a negative result and this lead is considered a duplicate .

Existing leads in the system are then submitted within the last 30 days where the lead applicant has provided the same e mail address as the lead being submitted . If any such lead exists the Duplication Check Process returns a negative result. This lead is then also considered a duplicate . Another search is conducted looking for existing leads in the system submitted within the last 30 days where the lead applicant has provided the same home telephone number as the lead being submitted . If any such lead exists the process returns a negative result and this lead is then considered a duplicate . If the duplication check deems this to be a lead which has not been submitted within the last 30 days a positive result is returned to the caller of the Duplication Check Process 

There is then a determination whether all of the information submitted is valid . If the data is valid a response is sent to the seller indicating success. The response in transmitted to the seller in XML format and is detailed by the Integration Specifications. The response is transmitted as a reply to the HTTP request.

If the data is not valid a response indicating failure is sent to the seller. The response is transmitted to the seller in XML format and is detailed by the Integration Specifications. The response is transmitted as a reply to the HTTP request.

A Website portal to implement the present invention is formed by a single executable application which the web server executes upon every request. Requests include placing a bid submitting a lead or normal user interface requests. The single executable application is called leadbid.cgi . Leadbid.cgi is a web application which facilitates all front end interactions with human users of the platform. It is divided into modules each having a specific purpose as follows 

A Login module is a secure module serves web content based around logging in and out of the web site. It facilitates the Log In and Log Out functions over a secure web connection 

An Administration module is a module serves web pages and performs duties relating to functions to be performed by Lead Bid Express administration IT personnel etc 

A Buy Profiles module is a module that serves web content related to the modification and addition of new profiles to a user s account 

A Buyer s module is a module that serves web content related to a buyers account. It provides brief reporting such as how many leads were purchased by the buyer in the past day week month and year and the average cost of the leads. It displays the last ten 10 leads that were purchased. There is also a rating system available to the buyers. The community of buyers rates each seller using the star icons available on the partnership creation page. Their own rating is indicated by orange stars the community s rating for the seller is indicated by grey stars 

A Sellers module is similar to the buyer s module however this module serves web content related to a sellers account. It provides brief reporting such as how many leads were sold by the seller in the past day week month and year and the average sell price of the leads 

A Search module provides the search form accessible on their respective homepage buyers and sellers are able to search through the leads they have bought and sold 

A Transactions module and reporting module serve web content related to transaction history. Transactions made between buyers and sellers are available on the transactions page. Transactions are viewable in one day one week or one month increments 

A Lead module serves the purpose of displaying lead content all information relating to a lead to users that have bought or sold it. In addition it accepts incoming leads from sellers who wish to sell a lead in the live auction platform or directly to a dealer 

A Partnerships module serves web content relating to the partnerships that buyers and sellers have developed with each other. In addition it provides a way for buyers and sellers to rate each other and serves related content 

A Markets module serves web content related to market research data. Lead Bid Express provides market research so that users of the platform can get a good idea of how much they should pay for a lead originating from a certain market. The markets module main page displays a map of the country and gives average lead prices for each state. Users may drill down to the state and metropolitan area view to get average lead prices for those areas 

A Navigation module dynamically serves the navigation menu and is embedded into every page on the site.

A key component of present invention is that buyers are offered the hassle free opportunity to return and dispute the validity of a lead they have purchased. For example if the lead applicant has provided false or incorrect information on the application the lead buyer may be unable to contact the applicant. In this case the buyer will usually want to return the lead to the seller and be given a credit for the price paid.

When a buyer views a lead they have purchased on the web site they are offered the opportunity to return the lead. When they click the Return Lead link they are presented with a web page which allows them to explain the reason that they are returning it. Once the return has been processed a record of a new return transaction is made in the database the lead seller receives notification of the return. The buyer is given a full credit for the purchase price of the lead and the seller s account is debited for the amount of sale and credited for the Lead Bid fee associated with the sale.

It will be apparent to one of skill in the art that described herein is a novel apparatus system and method for internet based commerce for exchanging sales lead information in a bid process while preventing duplicate leads from being passed from one party to another. While the invention has been described with reference to specific preferred embodiments it is not limited to these embodiments. The invention may be modified or varied in many ways and such modifications and variations as would be obvious to one of skill in the art are within the scope and spirit of the invention and are included within the scope of the following claims.

