---

title: Blanking system
abstract: An exemplary signal interference control system is disclosed that utilizes a computer system, such as programmable logic circuits or computer controlled logic gates, to generate blanking or control signals for various types of radio frequency receiver and transmitter combinations. Control signals are generated based on signal characteristic information stored in a memory including a delay following receipt of a pre-trigger signal from a radio frequency transmitter and a pulse width of control signal(s) generated for specified receivers, frequencies or systems. In one embodiment, information can be retrieved from a memory and used to generate an interference control signal. One or more control signals can be routed to a related or associated receiver to reduce or eliminate interference effects. Data representing associated radio frequency transmitters and receivers can be determined, synchronized and stored in data structures during testing operations until the received interference signals are properly aligned, synchronized or controlled at an associated receiver. Modified control signal data such as delay and interference control signal width information can be stored in a memory and used for future control signal generation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08150325&OS=08150325&RS=08150325
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08150325
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080612
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefor.

The invention relates to a system for controlling interference with communications navigational and radio receivers that operate in relative proximity to one or more transmitting equipment.

Electromagnetic interference EMI can be caused by electromagnetic spectrum EMS transmitter s generating EMS signals which cause degradation or other interference effects in a particular EMS receiver such as radio frequency RF transmitters quantum computing systems using energy state modifying EMS pulses fiber optic systems infrared systems or any system which modulates and transmits an EMS signal. Reflections or other causes can also create EMI effects in an EMS receiver as well. EMI can increase with the number of receivers and transmitters within reception range of each other and multiple use of the same frequency. EMI effects can be increased due to decreasing proximity between EMS transmitter receiver combinations using the same frequency.

A variety of approaches have been attempted to mitigate the effects of EMI on a particular EMS receiver with limited success. For example blanking can include a process of momentarily switching off a receiver or a transmitter receiver system during transmission. A receiver is not capable of receiving at least a portion of a radiated signal during the brief time interval that a receiver is blanked. Accordingly existing blanking systems defeat the very purpose they are being used for EMI mitigation when they are blanking reception of non EMI signals the EMS receiver that they are attached to is designed to receive.

Design of blanking systems is not an elemental exercise as it is dependant in a wide variety of variables. For example these variables can include number of transmitter receiver combinations a particular problem as the number of systems in reception proximity increases cable length to and between various components in a blanking system capacity of computer processors and signal buffers to simultaneously process signals for large numbers of inputs EMS transmitter and EMS receiver combinations distance from each EMS transmitter to its antenna sources of reflection size and power limitations on test systems or end items which a blanking system in incorporated therein and distance from an EMS transmitter antenna to one or more EMS receiver antennas. In addition blanking pulses can also be affected by receiver sensitivity. Many of these factors are unique for each EMS transmitter and EMS receiver combination.

Existing blanking systems are not able to adequately address the above variables and current EMS environment. Thus improvements to blanking systems are needed.

An exemplary signal interference control system is disclosed that utilizes a computer system such as programmable logic circuits or computer controlled logic gates to generate blanking or control signals for various types of EMS receiver and transmitter combinations. Control signals are generated based on signal characteristic information stored in a memory including a delay following receipt of a pre trigger signal from an EMS transmitter and a pulse width of control signal s generated for specified receivers frequencies or systems. In one embodiment information can be retrieved from a memory and used to generate an interference control signal. One or more control signals can be routed to a related or associated receiver to reduce or eliminate interference effects. Data representing associated radio frequency transmitters and receivers can be determined synchronized and stored in data structures during testing operations until the received interference signals are properly aligned synchronized or controlled at an associated receiver. Modified control signal data such as delay and interference control signal width information can be stored in a memory and used for future control signal generation.

Referring to therein is shown a block diagram of a novel interference control or BPG in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention. One or more EMS Transmitters are coupled to BPG using cables which are coupled to a Cable Termination Unit CTU . Examples of EMS Transmitters connected to CTU are navigation air traffic control radar and weather radar systems. An antenna is coupled to each EMS Transmitter in this example.

CTU also receives one or more e.g. five pass through signals on cables that are routed around Input Matrix Mixer hereinafter Input MM and PCB via path to Output Matrix Mixer hereinafter Output MM for direct routing to a selected or predetermined EMS Receiver s . These pass through signals are typically interference control signals or blanking pulses generated for one EMS Transmitter and passed on to another EMS Transmitter not shown and or EMS Receiver . In some embodiments there are certain combinations of EMS transmitter receivers which include signal processing control systems for interacting with each other. In the case of these particular EMS transmitter receiver combinations pass through signals may be used to perform secondary blanking pulse signal processing directly at the receiver based on the pass through signal sometimes for filtering at the EMS receiver sometimes for sensitivity control at the EMS receiver and sometimes for tuning control at the EMS receiver if it is for example a super heterodyne receiver which will skip over a frequency when a pass through signal is active. Secondary blanking pulse signal processing or other processing associated with use of the above referenced pass through signals can be done with or without use of a blanking pulse signal generated by an embodiment of this invention such as described herein.

CTU can be a pass through bus which properly terminates all cables from EMS transmitters and modifies received pre trigger signals into a common pre trigger signal format for subsequent processing. CTU can include a bus that has different termination values that can selectively be physically or electronically connected to different output ports. These output ports in this embodiment are coupled to a bus which in turn is coupled to an Input MM as well as Output MM . CTU can include a switching unit function which permits user selection of various inputs and outputs. CTU can be designed to permit multiple connector interfaces such as RS422 RS485 and RS232 in addition to other types of cable connectors such as coaxial cable inputs in order to receive additional types of pre trigger inputs or signals which have various signal characteristics including cable impedance. For example one BPG embodiment can include 125 ohm inputs. The CTU inputs can be supplemented by 50 ohm inputs and other inputs to accommodate serial communication standards to accommodate future transmitters sending pre trigger signals to the BPG . An example of pre trigger signal format processing is where a CTU receives a 50 volt pre trigger pulse from an EMS transmitter on a 125 ohm coaxial cable and converts that pulse into a TTL compatible signal e.g. a binary sequence . Examples of pre trigger signals from an EMS transmitter could include any signal which is used to indicate an EMS system is preparing to transmit or another system which is able to determine an EMS system is preparing to transmit.

Exemplary Input MM receives pre trigger signals from CTU over an input bus which couples the CTU and the Input MM . Input MM also sends selected pre trigger signals to Multi Channel Oscilloscope MCO based on control inputs from Computer further described below . Input MM also is coupled to Computer which controls operations of Input MM based on programs and stored data further described below .

This example Input MM includes multiple Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGA that are programmed by Computer to route each EMS transmitter pre trigger signal received from the bus coupled to CTU to one or more programmable blanking channels further described below within the exemplary PCB . PCB has an input circuit structure coupled on one hand to Input MM and on the other hand to individual programmable blanking channels. In this sense the Input MM acts as a switching unit for routing pre trigger signals to a particular bus line going into to a PCB . Computer is programmed to determine or control how Input MM routes pre trigger signals to PCB and MCO based on user inputs data associating EMS transmitter receiver combinations stored in Computer and EMI versus blanking pulse signal comparisons accomplished by MCO .

FPGAs in this embodiment are programmed in the field after manufacture. They contain programmable logic components called logic processing sequences and programmable interconnects. Logic processing sequences can be programmed to perform the function of basic logic gates such as but not limited to AND and XOR. This provides the ability for logic processing sequences to function as a router as in exemplary Input MM . Being as they can be programmed in the field they are useful in the present exemplary embodiment of the invention where new types of EMS Transmitters may be interconnected with an exemplary BPG .

PCB receives pre trigger inputs from Input MM . PCB includes programmable blanking channels which tunes generates blanking pulses signals and sends them to Output MM based on control inputs from Computer further described below . It should be understood that the term programmable blanking channel in this description refers to a function or circuit e.g. a circuit having function s described in reference to and receiving inputs from systems described in including Input MM and Computer such that the programmable blanking channel controls creates and tunes blanking pulse signals in accordance with the invention. In other words the term programmable blanking channel should not be understood to merely be a bus or wire structure used for conveying a signal.

Functionality for each programmable blanking channel is implemented using one or more FPGAs in this embodiment. It is also possible to have functionality for multiple e.g. four programmable blanking channels for each FPGA as an FPGA can be programmed to perform more than one logic signal processing function at the same time. In other words multiple inputs received from Input MM can be coupled to a single FPGA performing multiple functions associated with a programmable blanker channel operation. Alternatively multiple logic structures can be implemented in hardware such as in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or as software using one or more processors. Another implementation could be using programmable integrated circuits PIC for each programmable blanking channel.

Timing circuits not shown are implemented as part of the programmable blanking channels implemented in PCB to measure timing of EMI signals in comparison to blanking pulse signals created by programmable blanking channels. An example of their use is shown in and described with reference to . In initially an estimated delay and pulse width for a blanking pulse signal are assumed and stored. In a required delay and pulse width for a blanking pulse signal can be determined during alignment and stored in a data structure shown in for subsequent use in generating blanking pulse signals.

BPG also includes an Output MM which performs a routing function and a signal processing function such as a logical OR function. Output MM receives inputs from Computer CTU e.g. pass through signals and PCB e.g. blanking pulses . Output MM outputs data to Computer and Output Driver . In this embodiment Computer controls Output MM operations with the exception of the logical OR function which is automatic.

Output Drivers converts blanking pulse signals into a format required by EMS Receivers . For example blanking pulse signals in TTL signal format are converted to 125 ohm 25 v signals that are input into an EMS Receiver .

MCO receives selected pre trigger signals from Input MM selected blanking pulse signals from Output MM selected feedback signals from EMS Receivers based on a Feedback Selection System FSS coupled to and controlled by Computer . In this embodiment the FSS includes a multiplexer as it receives multiple inputs from EMS Receivers and outputs a signal s to MCO .

An embodiment of the BPG can utilize an open architecture system such as Virtual Machine Environment VME or VME extensions for Instrumentation VXI . This allows the use of commercially available equipment for common functions like the MCO the Input MM and Output MM the PCB and the computer hardware Computer Memory Unit Touch Screen Display and timing circuits included in PCB shown in .

BPG also includes a Touch Screen Display to permit a user to program or control Computer . Computer is coupled to Touch Screen Display as a human machine interface. Other embodiments may include any variation in the human machine interface to permit a user to perform control and input functions associated with the embodiments described herein or the invention. Touch Screen Display functions are further discussed below.

An exemplary MCO card can be rack mounted with Computer and Touch Screen Display . One MCO that can be used is model NI PZI 5105 from National Instruments. Under the control of Computer a MCO e.g. a card receives selected pre trigger signal inputs from Input MM and selected received signals from EMS Receiver s via FSS .

MCO in this embodiment does not include a video display accordingly display signals generates by the MCO are sent to Computer which in turn sends the display signals to Touch Screen Display . Exemplary signals from MCO displayed on exemplary Touch Screen Display are shown in . Other visual displays may be implemented such as a touch screen keyboard not shown for a user to enter information during system configuration and alignment.

Exemplary Computer control functions include control of blanking pulse signal adjustment tuning performed in PCB routing control functions performed in Input MM Output MM FSS control of MCO settings and output selections and control of display functions of Touch Screen Display . Computer communicates with EMS Receivers via Network Interface . Computer is coupled to a Memory Unit which stores programs and data structures for executing blanking operations.

A program stored in Memory Unit and running on Computer can use programmable blanking channel assignment information in a data structure stored in Memory Unit to generate control signals that are sent to appropriate FPGAs in exemplary Input MM to program connections through Input MM to specific programmable blanking channel assignment inputs within PCB . Connections or programmable blanking channel assignments in this embodiment can remain until a user changes the assignment table. Programmable blanking channel assignment information in these exemplary data structures are described with reference to and the entries are stored therein during system configuration and at appropriate times thereafter.

A program stored in Memory Unit and running on Computer also creates and stores routing assignment information for FSS e.g. EMS Receiver signals routed selected and sent to MCO and Output MM e.g. blanking pulse signals routed to EMS Receivers through Output Drivers using user inputs received from Touch Screen Display . Memory Unit stores a data structure e.g. see which stores routing assignment data which indicates an identity for each device coupled to each bus or port such as CTU Input MM PCB Output MM FSS and EMS Receivers . This identity data is accessed to display and facilitate touch screen icon choices shown in exemplary . In other words this routing assignment data is used as a routing table for use in associating different components with programmable blanking channels in PCB and performing signal routing functions between system components including CTU Input MM PCB Output MM FSS and EMS Receivers where Computer controls routing functions based on data in this routing table and user inputs using the Touch Screen Display . This routing information is entered manually in this embodiment during prior to a user using the Touch Screen Display to associate various system components but it could be automatically sensed or created using manual and automatic processing or devices. In the example shown in programmable blanking channel number 16 is shown as the programmable blanking channel touch screen icon choice . The numeral 16 indicates a specific input output port in PCB .

It should be understood that alternative embodiments of Computer can include hardware software or combined hardware software implementations of the functions described herein or otherwise performed by the invention. Additional details regarding functionality accomplished by Computer are described below.

BPG also includes a Network Interface from BPG to EMS Receivers . This Network Interface permits interactive control by EMS Receiver s to temporarily disable interference control or blanking pulse signal generation when there is no frequency conflict between EMS Transmitters and specific EMS Receivers . Feedback is provided to the users regarding interference control or programmable blanking channels that are disabled. Operation of interactive control is shown on Touch Screen Display or other human machine interfaces.

Referring to an exemplary graphical depiction of data received from MCO and other portions of BPG is shown. In particular these graphical depictions have two major components signal traces and touch screen data input e.g. drop down menus and data display icons. These exemplary signal traces are produced by MCO and output into Computer which are passed along and displayed on Touch Screen Display . Touch screen data input and data display icons are generated by Computer and displayed on Touch Screen Display and are used to perform various functions such as data entry drop down menu item selection and control function selection. Examples of data entry drop down menu item selection or control function selection via touch screen icons are Programmable Blanking Channel Number Selection touch screen icon EMS transmitter drop down menu display select e.g. ATC 1 Input MM connector number e.g. routing connector number 7 Output MM connector number e.g. routing connector number 4 EMS receiver drop down menu display select e.g. receiver selection Rcvr 1 . The exemplary drop down menus or display select menus shown in permit selection of one of multiple device and connection routing choices displayed in the selection menus. These displayed choices include various pre input data such as for example component bus assignments or connection routing data as well as EMS receivers programmable blanker channel numbers and EMS transmitters. However alternative embodiments could permit manual inputs using these menus which store the manually input data into data structures e.g. stored in Memory Unit as well. An embodiment can include a system which merely displays pre input choices as well.

With regard to displayed signal traces shown in a variety of signal characteristics are shown. For example a delay between a leading edge of a pre trigger pulse and a leading edge of a blanking pulse signal is known as a pre trigger time delay . Blanking pulse signals in this embodiment have multiple signal characteristics including a pulse width shown in defined as a time interval between a leading edge and a trailing edge of a high low modulated or otherwise active blanking pulse signal high is shown in and . Ideally the leading and trailing edge of a blanking pulse will be adjusted to be synchronized with a leading and trailing edge of EMI which is generated by an EMS Transmitter which is generating interference signal reception at an EMS Receiver . Signal trace is shown in as reflections or other received EMS signals that are received after an initial transmission of an EMS signal .

A displayed EMI signal trace is shown in which includes a received signal portion from each EMS Transmitter that can be described as a measured time interval and is stored in the exemplary data structures shown in . Delay and other blanking pulse characteristics can vary from one EMS Transmitter to another EMS Transmitter and with respect to where the EMS Receivers are located. Immediately after receipt of an EMS Transmitter pre trigger pulse Computer retrieves from Memory Unit stored delay and pulse width data e.g. for each EMS Receiver receiving signals generated by an EMS Transmitter associated with an above referenced pre trigger signal . Computer next uses the retrieved information in the generation of blanking pulse signals for each EMS Receiver that is interfered with as further described below. Delay timing between a pre trigger signal and the start of a blanking pulse signal is done using one or more timing circuits not shown within PCB e.g. two timing circuits associated with a FPGA and is further described in greater detail below.

Stated another way upon receipt of a pre trigger signal from an EMS Transmitter Computer determines which EMS Transmitter sent the pre trigger signal based upon a detection of a pre trigger signal on a particular CTU connector. Using the connector identification Computer identifies one or more data structures e.g. found in Memory Unit associated with a particular EMS Transmitter that sent the pre trigger signal and uses the association of data transmitter and receiver to identify one or more EMS Receivers requiring application of one or more blanking pulse signals . Computer starts one of multiple timing circuits not shown included in PCB for each EMS Receiver requiring a blanking pulse using retrieved delays stored in the above referenced data structure. Computer also applies a signal to a first input of each FPGA gate in PCB assigned to the specific EMS Transmitter in order to set a first input high. At the end of the retrieved delay as determined by a count in an associated timing circuit not shown Computer sends a signal to a second input of each FPGA gate assigned to the specific EMS Transmitter to set a second input high. The moment both inputs are high the output of the same FPGA gate is high. This is an example of commencement of generation of a blanking pulse signal. This operation is further described with reference to .

With regard to one example of blanking pulse signal tuning and referring to Computer uses pulse width information retrieved from the data structures for each affected EMS Receiver to control pulse widths of a blanking pulse signal using one or more timing circuits in PCB to determine when to terminate a blanking pulses for the affected EMS Receivers . A comparison of blanking pulses generated by an assigned programmable blanking channel and EMI signal characteristics from an associated EMS Receiver is accomplished by one or more programmable blanker channel including these timing circuits is accomplished. In this example a count down is based on stored data associated with an EMS transmitter and receiver combination is started. When time zero is reached in these countdowns Computer generates another control signal that is sent to a reset input of an associated FPGA gate in a programmable blanking channel not shown within PCB to cause the output of the gate to go low. This terminates the blanking pulse signal output from the last mentioned FPGA gate for the affected EMS Receiver . Two different EMS Receivers may need different blanking pulses for the same EMS Transmitter . In that case a pre trigger signal from one EMS Transmitter is routed by Input MM to two different FPGA gates in one or more programmable blanking channel not shown within PCB . With two different programmable blanking channels in PCB involved there are two different blanking pulses generated and forwarded to the two different EMS Receivers by Output MM based on routing control signals sent by Computer based on routing assignment information stored in Memory Unit .

Information in an associated data structures e.g. stored in Memory Unit is not required to be read out after every pre trigger pulse after an EMS Transmitter periodically transmits. The routing connections through Input MM assigned ones of the FPGA gates of programmable blanking channels in PCB and Output MM can be left connected as long as the particular EMS Transmitter is transmitting. In addition timing circuits not shown e.g. in PCB may continue to measure time interval or determine pre determined time interval starting after every pre trigger signal to the commencement of each blanking pulse and the blanking pulse widths required by the FPGA gates to generate blanking pulses.

An exemplary configuration and alignment display is shown in the upper portion of . With the touch screen operation of Touch Screen Display a user may touch the UP and DOWN arrows in Programmable Blanking Channel Number Selection touch screen icon to select one of the programmable blanking channels e.g. port FPGAs or gates therein through PCB to initially select a desired programmable blanking channel in PCB for association with EMS Transmitter and EMS Receiver and other components therebetween required to establish various routing relationships including CTU Input MM PCB Output MM FSS and Output Driver as well as data associated with delay and pulse width associated with each EMS transmitter receiver combination. If no EMS Transmitter has been previously chosen to be associated and initially configured with a selected programmable blanking channel in PCB there will be no information displayed on screen in EMS transmitter Drop Down Menu Display Select Input MM connector number e.g. routing connector number 7 Output MM connector number EMS receiver Name drop down menu display select delay data value touch select icon and blanking pulse width data values touch select icon . A user may use an unassigned programmable blanking channel to initially configure BPG to operate with a new EMS Transmitter and EMS Receiver pair. Following programmable blanking channel selection EMS transmitter drop down menu display select and EMS receiver drop down menu display select may be touch screen selected during configuration to access these interfaces and key in EMS receiver and or EMS transmitter assignments or other data. A separate keyboard not shown could also be used to make these selections. In the example shown in the identity of the EMS Transmitter ATC 1 is entered via keying of EMS transmitter drop down menu display select .

After initial configuration is complete a programmable blanking channel may next be aligned in order to generate blanking pulse signals that properly blank an EMS Receiver identified in EMS receiver drop down menu display select . A misaligned programmable blanking channel selection 16 example is shown in and an aligned programmable blanking channel selection 16 is shown in .

For alignment purposes a user first selects a programmable blanking channel in PCB to align by keying the UP and DOWN arrows next to Programmable Blanking Channel Number Selection touch screen icon . In this is shown as programmable blanking channel selection 16 . To select programmable blanking channel 18 a user touches the UP touch screen arrow displayed in Programmable Blanking Channel Number Selection touch screen icon twice more and the number 18 will be displayed therein. After a programmable blanking channel is selected Computer retrieves information about the selected programmable blanking channel from the associated data structure stored in Memory Unit . For assignment of programmable blanking channel 16 select EMS transmitter Drop Down Menu Display Select in order to indicate that blanking pulse signals generated for programmable blanking channel 16 are for an EMS Transmitter shown which is further designated as an air traffic control radar ATC 1 at EMS receiver drop down menu display select . Input MM connector number is data displayed indicates that the pre trigger signals from the radar designated ATC 1 are routed to input terminal 7 of CTU . Output MM connector number indicates that blanking pulse output for programmable blanking channel 16 are connected to output terminal 4 of Output MM . A blanking pulse generated responsive to a pre trigger pulse from air traffic control radar ATC 1 is sent to an EMS Receiver Rcvr 1 that is designated in EMS receiver Name drop down menu display select .

When a user is finished entering data and selections they can key the Store touch screen icon and data and selections are stored in the data structure associated with the chosen programmable blanking channel. Alternatively a discrete physical keyboard may be utilized.

More particularly in it can be seen that blanking pulse starts after the time that an EMS Receiver initially receives interference signal from an associated EMS Transmitter and the blanking pulse ends before all other interference reflection signals are received by the associated EMS Receiver . During alignment a starting time and pulse width of the blanking pulse are adjusted by a user and are stored in the associated data structure for subsequent use in generating proper blanking pulse signals . Exemplary data structures are shown in and described with reference to .

As shown in during alignment of programmable blanking channel 16 in PCB the front edge of the blanking pulse is set to match the front edge of interference signal received directly from EMS Transmitter . A back edge of blanking pulse is set to match an end of all interference signal reflections .

Pre trigger delay and blanking pulse width settings are determined based on several variables including 1. cable length from each EMS Transmitter to CTU 2. path length from CTU and through Input MM to a logic circuit in this case a programmed FPGA in PCB 3. path length from the logic circuit in PCB to Output MM which routes blanking pulse signals to specific EMS Receivers 4. path length from Output MM and through an Output Driver cable length from the Output Driver to a specific EMS Receiver 5. distance from each EMS Transmitter to its antenna and 6. distance from the antenna of an EMS Transmitter to the antenna of an EMS Receiver . In addition the blanking pulses are also affected by the sensitivity of the EMS Receivers . Many of these factors are unique for each EMS Transmitter and each EMS Receiver .

When EMS Transmitters are ready to transmit they send a pre trigger signal at a predetermined time prior to actual transmission of an EMS pulse by the transmitter using its antenna . This predetermined time or delay was stored during configuration in the associated one of the data structures shown and is retrieved along with all other information stored in the same data structure upon receipt of a pre trigger signal . The pre trigger signal is immediately sent to one input of a logic circuit in PCB for the programmable blanking channel identified in the retrieved information. An exemplary logic circuit is shown in and described with reference to . Using timing circuits not shown controlled by Computer the computer uses the retrieved pre trigger delay interval to time the pre trigger delay. Computer sends another signal to another input of the same logic circuit in PCB at the end of the pre trigger delay interval. Blanking pulse width information can also be stored in and retrieved from data structure .

Pulse width of blanking pulse is included in information retrieved from data structure . Computer enables one of timing circuits not shown included in PCB to time the width of blanking pulse using this pulse width information. Timing starts at the end of the pre trigger delay interval . Computer sends another signal to a reset input of the same logic circuit in PCB that is being used to generate the blanking pulse signal at the end of timing the width of blanking pulse . Responsive to the reset signal logic circuit terminates output of a blanking pulse.

Another exemplary feature of the novel BPG described herein is automatic alignment of blanking pulse signals for the programmable blanking channels in PCB to align the start time and pulse width of blanking pulses . In there is an Auto Align icon. An automatic alignment process controlled by Computer and a program stored in Memory Unit may be executed for each user selected programmable blanking channel when this icon is keyed. Optimal blanking pulse Delay and Pulse Width values can be automatically determined rather than manually. This automatic determination can be accomplished by changing the two values delay and pulse width and comparing a starting time and stop time of one or more blanking pulses with a signal received at an associated EMS Receiver . This operation can be repeated until the start of the blanking pulse matches the beginning of signal and the end of blanking pulse matches the end of reflection signals . An alignment may thereafter be fine tuned manually if necessary as previously discussed above. Optimum alignment times so determined are stored by Computer in an associated data structure and thereafter retrieved and used to produce blanking pulses for selected programmable blanking channels. In an alternative embodiment once the automatic alignment process is started it will cycle through all the programmable blanking channels and repeat the above described automatic alignment for all programmable blanking channels.

Blanking pulse signals generated as described above can be used in a different manner by different EMS Receivers . For some EMS Receivers blanking pulse signals are used to blank a receiver s input for other EMS Receivers blanking pulse signals are used to disable a receiver s input for other EMS Receivers blanking pulse signals are used to momentarily disconnect Antenna from an EMS Receiver .

In is shown an exemplary latching AND gate created using FPGAs for each of the plurality of programmable blanking channels in PCB and used to generate blanking pulses . Operation of latching AND gate is described in conjunction with the description of the timing diagram in . There are as many latching AND gates as there are programmable blanking channels through PCB . shows a pre trigger signal top row of is applied to input of latching AND gate as soon as it is received from an EMS Transmitter . This sets input high where it remains until AND gate is reset at the end of generating a blanking pulse at its output . Gate may be operated in different ways to achieve the same end result or alternatively other logic circuit arrangements maybe utilized to achieve the same end result.

As previously described a blanking pulse is started at the end of timing the pre trigger delay and timing for a blanking pulse width is accomplished using timing circuits not shown e.g. in PCB . Computer causes second input of latching AND gate to be set high at the start of timing the width of a blanking pulse where it remains until AND gate is reset at the end of generating a blanking pulse at its output . Output of Gate is set high with both inputs and set high thus starting generation of a blanking pulse . As seen in the second row of at the end of pre determined pre trigger delay time period defines a starting point for blanking pulse width pulse which is generated by Computer . The blanking pulse width pulse is applied to input of AND gate to cause the start of this blanking pulse .

More particularly Computer determines which EMS Transmitter a pre trigger signal originates from upon detection of a pre trigger signal based upon detection at an input terminal number of the pre trigger signal . Computer searches the data structures using the input terminal number to find a match in a particular data structure associated with the EMS Transmitter that sent the pre trigger signal and retrieves the matched associated pre trigger delay interval data and other information from the selected data structure . Computer initiates signal timing using the retrieved pre trigger delay interval and at the end of the pre trigger delay interval it outputs start pulse width signal . Signal is applied to second input of AND gate which sets this input of the associated latching AND gate to its high state. At this moment both inputs and of AND gate are high and output of latching AND gate goes high as seen in the bottom row of . This is the start of blanking pulse . The blanking pulse is forwarded to an EMS Receiver as indicated by the output terminal number stored in an associated data structure.

Also included in information retrieved from associated data structure is a pulse width of blanking pulse that is generated at output of gate . Computer continues timing the width of a blanking pulse using timing circuits not shown e.g. in PCB after a pre trigger delay has been timed and a pulse generated. Computer generates a stop pulse which is applied to reset input of latching AND gate of the associated programmable blanking channel at the end of timing the width of a blanking pulse . Pulse causes a reset of both inputs and to their low state and the blanking pulse returns to its zero state as seen in the bottom row of . AND gate and Computer now await receipt of a subsequent pre trigger signal and the cycle described above is repeated to generate further blanking pulses.

Operations branch to processing sequence Configure Routing when Computer determines that the system is in initial configuration mode. Computer next determines which of the initial configuration functions are being performed. Typically a user first selects an idle programmable blanking channel in PCB when setting up BPG to operate with a new EMS Transmitter . This is done at processing sequence Select Programmable Blanking Channel . Channel selection is done by touching the up and down arrows in Channel Number processing sequence shown in to change the selected programmable blanking channel number. When an unassigned programmable blanking channel number is selected there will be no information displayed in processing sequences and in .

Processing progresses to processing sequence Select Input when Computer receives input that user has keyed a left side of BPG processing sequence input terminal on Touch Screen Display . Computer displays an touch screen keyboard not shown in the figures on Touch Screen Display which permits a user to select an idle input terminal on CTU associated with a cable from an EMS Transmitter .

Similarly processing progresses to processing sequence Select Outputs when Computer detects that a user has keyed a right side of processing sequence output terminal . Computer again displays an touch screen keyboard on Touch Screen Display not shown in any of the figures to enable a user to select an idle output terminal from BPG to which a cable can be connected to carry blanking pulse signals to a specific EMS Receiver . Processing sequence of steps described in processing sequences and may be varied. One possible order is described below.

Next at processing sequence Select Parameters a user inputs initial delay and pulse width information by selecting touch user interface UP and DOWN arrow screen portions in processing sequences and in . During subsequent system alignment the initial delay and pulse width information is modified as previously described with reference to .

Processing branches to processing sequence Blanking Alignment when Computer determines that the system is in blanking alignment mode. Blanking alignment mode is determined by Computer by analyzing which touch screen icons are keyed by a user. Typically a user initially selects a programmable blanking channel to be aligned at processing sequence Select Channel . At processing sequence Display Signal Computer then retrieves all information from a data structure associated with the selected programmable blanking channel and stored information is displayed as shown in .

Next processing continues at processing sequence Adjust Blanking after programmable blanking channel selection and information display. Computer next determines if system alignment is to be accomplished manually or automatically. Computer determines automated alignment is to be utilized when Computer detects user selection of touch screen icon Auto Align . Processing next continues to processing sequence Automated .

Automated alignment operations commence when Computer retrieves a delay and a pulse width data used to generate a blanking pulse from one of a plurality of data structures associated with a chosen programmable blanking channel. Automated alignment operations executed by Computer are controlled based on a program stored in Memory Unit . Computer then compares a generated blanking pulse having a determined width and delay against interference reflection or EMI signals and received by an associated EMS Receiver . Under control of the stored program Computer adjusts delay and pulse width values associated with each generated blanking pulse until Computer no longer detects interference signals and reception by an EMS Receiver associated with a predetermined associated EMS Transmitter . Adjusted delay and blanking pulse width values are then stored in a data structures which contains data for the particular EMS Receiver and predetermined associated EMS Transmitter and are used thereafter for generating blanking pulses after each pre trigger signal is received for a particular EMS transmitter EMS receiver combination.

Alternatively processing continues from processing sequence to manual processing when Computer determines manual alignment has been selected when Computer detects user keying of touch screen icon Delay possibly preceded by keying touch screen icon Blanking Channel Number to select a programmable blanking channel. At processing sequence Computer executes a stored program and retrieves Delay and Pulse Width values associated with generating a blanking pulse and other required information that is associated with a user selected programmable blanking channel connected to an EMS transmitter from data structures . Computer cooperating with MCO and Touch Screen Display displays a graphical user interface e.g. . A user visually compares a delay and pulse width value s of a blanking pulse against interference signals and in manual alignment mode. The user then manually adjusts the delay and pulse width values retrieved from the associated data structure and displayed in processing sequences and using touch screen UP and DOWN arrows until the interference reflection signals and are completely blanked as shown in . A user selects touch screen Store icon to complete manual adjustment and store adjusted delay and pulse width values. Stored adjusted values can be used in subsequent generation of blanking pulses for an associated EMS Receiver responsive to an EMS Transmitter s pre trigger signal s .

Referring to an exemplary program commences processing at Start processing sequence . Processing sequence is a decision processing sequence where it is determined if a user wishes to initially configure an unassigned programmable blanking channel. Initial configuration is done in order to associate the unassigned programmable blanking channel with a particular EMS transmitter connected to BPG and thereby associate the EMS transmitter with one or more EMS receiver s which receive EMI from said EMS transmitter. Initial configuration is done by Computer detecting if the user has keyed ones of touch screen icons and possibly preceded by touching touch screen icon to select an unassigned programmable blanking channel. If none of touch screen icons and are keyed the program exits processing sequence at No and progresses to the input of Alignment decision processing sequence to determine if the user wishes to align a selected programmable blanking channel. Conversely if it is determined at processing sequence that programmable blanking channel configuration is to be performed the program exits processing sequence at Yes and progresses to processing sequence wherein an EMS Transmitter is assigned to an unassigned programmable blanking channel in PCB and the assigned programmable blanking channel is stored in the associated data structure shown in . This operation has previously been described with reference to and is not repeated here.

Alternatively initial configuration can be accomplished at processing sequence by selecting a touch screen icon not shown which initiates a configuration sequence permitting a user to associated unassigned programmable blanking channels associated with EMS transmitters and EMS receivers. A user will select a programmable blanking channel identifier e.g. associate a number or identifier to associate the identifier with a particular EMS transmitter and then select one or more EMS receivers which require blanking processing based on multiple stored subsequently stored or subsequently adjusted stored signal characteristics such as delay and pulse width.

Initial configuration processing continues at processing sequence where preliminary timing values for pre trigger delay and pulse width are selected names for the new EMS Transmitter and EMS Receivers are selected and input and output terminals are selected and all this is stored in an associated data structure shown in . Timing values are selected by the user using the UP and DOWN arrows in touch screen icons and as previously described and exact alignment of the blanking pulse is performed during the alignment phase described with reference to . Using a touch screen display keyboard the user enters the name of the EMS Transmitter in processing sequence the name of the associated EMS Receiver in processing sequence and the input and output terminal numbers in processing sequence . Following the selections and entries the user touches Store icon to store the new information in the associated one of the data structures . Moving to step the program configures Input MM to connect the chosen input terminal to the input of the chosen programmable blanking channel in PCB . Then at step the program configures Output MM to connect the output of the chosen programmable blanking channel in PCB to the appropriate output terminal of BPG to forward blanking pulse signals to the appropriate EMS Receiver .

The above completes configuration of one programmable blanking channel in PCB . The stored program running on Computer progresses to decision processing sequence to determine if there are any additional EMS Transmitters to be assigned to and initially configured with unassigned programmable blanking channels in PCB . If it is determined that there are additional EMS Transmitters to be initially configured the program exits decision processing sequence at Yes and cycles back via path to the input of processing sequence to repeat the steps in processing sequences and for the additional EMS Transmitter .

If it is determined at processing sequence that there are no additional EMS Transmitters to be initially configured the program exits decision processing sequence at No and the program progresses to decision processing sequence where the program determines if the user is requesting to align the delay and pulse width for any programmable blanking channels within PCB . The processing sequence determination is made by monitoring which touch screen icons a user keys as previously described. If the decision at processing sequence is negative the program exits processing sequence at No and progresses via path W to decision processing sequence in to monitor for pre trigger signals. If the decision at processing sequence is in the affirmative as determined by touch screen icons keyed by the user the program exits processing sequence at Yes and progresses via path W to processing sequence in . Processing sequence in is the first step in aligning a blanking pulse with interference signals and .

Upon the program proceeding to decision processing sequence in via path W the program monitors for receipt of pre trigger signals from any of the EMS Transmitters connected to CTU . The program continuously loops through processing sequence via processing sequences and until a pre trigger signal is received. More particularly when the decision at processing sequence is No the program returns via path W to the input of decision processing sequence in where the program checks to determine if a programmable blanking channel initial configuration is to be performed followed by a check at decision processing sequence to determine if a programmable blanking channel is to be aligned. The operation at processing sequences and is described hereinabove. When the program determines at decision processing sequence that a pre trigger signal has been received it proceeds to processing sequence where Computer uses the knowledge of what input terminal the pre trigger signal is detected on to route the pre trigger signal to the assigned programmable blanker channel in PCB .

The program then progresses to processing sequence and Computer uses the identified input terminal to locate the associated one s of the data structure s and retrieves there from the pre trigger delay blanking pulse time width input and output terminal identification and the stored names of the EMS Transmitter and associated EMS Receiver s . This retrieved information is displayed for each programmable blanking channel as shown in and the timing figures are used in generating the blanking pulse displayed in . The received pre trigger signal is routed to first input of an assigned latching AND gate in the assigned programmable blanking channel of PCB .

Using the retrieved pre trigger delay information Computer starts a timing circuit e.g. within PCB to time an identified active pre trigger delay and as indicated at processing sequence at the end of the delay Computer sends a start pulse to the second input of the latching AND gate previously discussed. This causes the output of the latching AND gate to go high which is the beginning of a blanking pulse as shown in . At the same time Computer starts another timing circuit e.g. within PCB to time the pulse width of a generated blanking pulse for purposes of determining a termination point for the blanking pulse.

At processing sequence the program routes the blanking pulse being generated through Output MM and its associated Output Driver to the particular output terminal of BPG which is retrieved from an associated data structure. The identified EMS Receiver requiring the blanking pulse is connected to this BPG output terminal.

At processing sequence the program determines when a timing circuit timing a pulse width of a blanking pulse has completed its timing function and Computer responds thereto to send a signal to reset input of the latching AND gate which resets the gate and causes its output to go low. This low state in output results in termination of a blanking pulse generated by a programmable blanker channel within PCB for a particular EMS Transmitter .

Processing continues via path W to decision processing sequence in after blanking pulse generation has been performed as indicated by processing sequences . The program running on Computer performs the steps in decision processing sequences and to determine if the user has keyed any touch screen icons indicating they wish to either perform the configuration of a programmable blanking channel or to align a programmable blanking channel. If no initial configuration or alignment is to be performed the program will exit decision processing sequence at No and cycle back via path W to the input of decision processing sequence in to monitor for further pre trigger signals and generate blanking pulses responsive thereto as previously described. More particularly at decision processing sequence the program continues monitoring to determine which touch screen icons are keyed by a user as previously described to determine if a programmable blanking channel is to be initially configured. If the decision is in the affirmative the program exits processing sequence at Yes and continues via path W to the input of processing sequence in . Processing sequence is a first step in performing a configuration of a programmable blanking channel such as previously described. If the decision at processing sequence is in the negative the program exits processing sequence at No and progresses to decision processing sequence to determine if a programmable blanking channel is to be aligned. Determination of whether or not programmable blanking channel alignment processing selection has been initiated can be accomplished by program monitoring which touch screen icons a user keys or another condition which is sensed such as a determination that a programmable blanking channel is out of alignment with a reference value. If the decision is in the negative the program exits processing sequence at No and goes via path W back to the input of decision processing sequence in to monitor for further pre trigger signals and generate blanking pulses responsive thereto. If the decision at processing sequence is in the affirmative indicating that a programmable blanking channel is to be aligned the program exits processing sequence at Yes and progresses to processing sequence . Processing sequences perform the program steps to align a programmable blanking channel as described hereinafter.

At processing sequence the program determines which programmable blanking channel has been selected to be aligned by the user touching the UP and DOWN icons at processing sequence in followed by touching ones of icons . The programmable blanking channel having been identified the program progresses to processing sequence and Computer retrieves the information stored in the identified one of the data structures for the chosen programmable blanking channel. The information is displayed in touch screen processing sequences of Touch Screen Display as shown in and the displayed information is used during the alignment process.

The program then progresses to processing sequence where the blanking pulses generated using the delay and pulse width information retrieved from the associated data structure are visually or automatically compared to the signals received by the EMS Receiver for which the blanking pulses is generated by the associated EMS Transmitter . There may be other EMS Receivers that are being interfered with by the last mentioned EMS Transmitter that will also require blanking pulses to be generated using other programmable blanking channels in PCB . Progressing to processing sequence the alignment is performed either manually or automatically as generally described with reference to . When performed manually a user can visually compare a generated blanking pulse and interference signals and received by EMS Receiver and displayed on Touch Screen Display via MCO under control of Computer as shown in . As shown in and as previously described in detail when comparing oscilloscope channels 2 and 3 alignment of the blanking pulse is required. For manual alignment a user keys the UP and DOWN arrows in on screen icons processing sequences in to select change delay and the pulse width settings for generated blanking pulse until a generated sampled blanking pulse are synchronized with and properly blank interference signals and as shown .

When the user has completed the alignment of the chosen programmable blanking channel they can touch select a Store icon to store a final delay and pulse width information. As described in greater detail with reference to at times more than one EMS Receiver may receive interference signals and caused by the transmissions of a single EMS Transmitter . A different programmable blanking channel in PCB is utilized for each EMS Receiver needing a blanking pulse responsive to a pre trigger pulse from the EMS Transmitter .

When an alignment of a selected programmable blanking channel is completed the program progresses to decision processing sequence . At processing sequence the program determines if the touch screen icons keyed by a user indicate that another programmable blanking channel is to be aligned. If the answer is in the affirmative the program exits processing sequence at Yes and cycles back to the input of processing sequence to re perform the alignment steps in processing sequences to align the another programmable blanking channel.

If at decision processing sequence the decision is negative the program exits processing sequence at No and cycles via path W back to the input of decision processing sequence in to monitor for further pre trigger signals. The operation of monitoring for pre trigger signals and generating blanking pulses has been described hereinabove.

It should be understood that has been described in the context of processing sequences and actions associated with each sequence. However the embodiment described in also represents one example of software or a control program which is used to perform the tasks described herein. Data structures described in exemplary are used to store data which is used by the example program described above and represented by functional code blocks shown in . B and C discuss processing which is accomplished by the exemplary program structure described in .

While what has been described herein is a preferred embodiment of the invention it will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been described and illustrated herein order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principles and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims. For example the blanking pulses may be generated in ways other than using the FPGA in a programmable blanking channel within PCB .

