---

title: Detachable and reattachable portal pages
abstract: A portal environment may include at least one detachable and reattachable portal page. The detachable and reattachable portal page may include a detach feature to detach the portal page from the portal environment. A reattach feature may be provided to reattach a detached portal page to the portal environment. In another embodiment, a method to detach and reattach at least one portal page may include detaching a selected portal page in response to activating a detach feature. The method may also include reattaching the detached portal page in response to activating a reattach feature. The selected, detached portal page may be transferred to a window in response to activating the detach feature. Tunneling communication may be provided between the detached portal page and the portal environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07921380&OS=07921380&RS=07921380
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07921380
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081010
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 710 943 filed Aug. 13 2004 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Further this application is related to co pending patent application Ser. No. 10 708 971 filed Apr. 5 2004 entitled Portal Including Detachable and Reattachable Portlets which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference and is assigned to the same assignee as this application.

The present invention relates to portal pages and web portals for accessing multiple portal pages and more particularly to detachable and reattachable portal pages.

A portal is a point of access to data and applications that provides a unified and personalized view of information and resources. Typically a portal is implemented as one or more portal pages on a website. Portal pages can integrate many elements such as live data feeds static information multimedia presentations and similar content. Currently within a portal environment the purpose of a portal page in to organize and contain a given set of portlets. Portlets are reusable components that may provide access to applications web based content and other resources such as the live data feeds static information and multimedia presentations as mentioned above. Because of the integrated nature of portal pages a user does not have the ability to view and interact with multiple pages at the same time. is an example of a portal environment in which a portal page identified by a tab labeled My Finances is currently being displayed or presented to a user. Other portal pages that may be accessed or activated through the portal environment are identified by their corresponding tabs such as Documents tab Welcome tab My Work tab My Newsroom tab and My Star Trek tab . The portal pages can typically only be switched from one another via the use of the integrated tabs that may be located at the top of each corresponding portal page such as that illustrated in . Only one portal page may be viewed on a user s desktop or active at any given time.

Additionally other problems may occur as a result of the tight coupling of portal pages within a portal environment. One problem is that users do not have the ability to refresh multiple pages because only one page can be viewed or active at any given time. Another problem is related to dynamic updates for a portal page. Updates such as alerts or the like cannot be surfaced or brought to a user s attention because only one portal page may be viewed or active on a user s desktop at any given moment. Further portlets on separate portal pages cannot communicate with one another.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a portal environment may include at least one detachable portal page. The portal environment may also include a detach feature or element associated with the at least one detachable portal page.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a method to detach and reattach at least one portal page associated with a portal environment may include detaching a selected portal page in response to activating a detach feature or element. The method may also include reattaching the detached portal page in response to activating a reattach feature or element.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a method to detach and reattach at least one portal page associated with a portal environment may include detaching a selected portal page in response to activating a detach feature or element. The method may also include transferring the selected detached portal page to a separate window or page in response to detaching the selected portal page.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a method to form a portal environment may include providing at least one portal pages with a detach feature. The method may also include providing communication between the portal environment and the at least one portal page in response to the at least one portal page being detached.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a system to detach and reattach a portal page to a portal environment may include a portal server. The system may also include at least one portal page accessible via the portal server. The at least one portal page may include a detach feature to detach the at least one portal page from an associated portal environment.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a computer readable medium have computer executable instruction for performing a method that may include detaching a selected portal page from a portal environment in response to activation of a detach feature. The method may also include reattaching the detached portal page in response to activation of a reattach feature.

The following detailed description of preferred embodiments refers to the accompanying drawings which illustrate specific embodiments of the invention. Other embodiments having different structures and operations do not depart from the scope of the present invention.

As discussed in more detail below the portal page when detached undocked or popped out may be represented in the portal environment or website by a placeholder a re attach icon or symbol within the portal environment or website. The contents of the detached or undocked portal page are replaced by the placeholder or re attach icon. The placeholder or re attach icon may be much smaller than the detached portal page to take less space in the portal environment or website to unclutter the website and make it easier to navigate on a user s desktop. When detached and replaced by the placeholders multiple portal pages may be active and viewed via their corresponding placeholders on a user s desktop at any given time. Because multiple portal pages can be active and displayed via their respective placeholders simultaneously users have an ability to refresh the portal pages and dynamically update the portal pages. The placeholder or re attach icon may also serve the purpose to control re attaching or re docking a detached portal page as discussed in more detail herein with reference to .

In block a portal environment may be formed incorporating one or more portal pages that may each include a detach feature or element. The portal environment may also include other portal pages that do not have the detach feature. Referring also to illustrates an example of a portal environment including a plurality of portal pages such as portal page A and portal page B . Each portal page and may include a plurality of portlets. For example portal page A may include portlet A and portlet B . Portal page B may include portlet C and portlet D . Each portal page and may include a detach function or element. Additionally as discussed in more detail with respect to and each portlet may also include a detach or undock feature or element.

In block the detach feature icon or symbol of a portal page element in may be activated by a user clicking on the icon or symbol using a computer mouse or other pointing device. In block an independently managed window or page may be formed in response to the detach feature or icon being activated. Forming independently managed windows or pages is known by those skilled in the art. An independently managed window may be formed or created for each detached portal page. In block the detached portal page may be transferred to the independently managed window or page. In block a placeholder or reattach icon may be formed in the portal environment to represent and hold the place for the detached portal page. The placeholder or reattach icon may be substantially smaller than the original portal page because of less content to occupy much less space or real estate in the portal environment. Replacing the detached portal page with a smaller placeholder also unclutters the portal environment and permits more than one portal page to be presented to a user or in a user s desktop at the same time. The portal pages and portlets contained within each of the portal pages may also communicate and interact with one another. The user may also interface and interact with the portal pages and portlets at the same time. The placeholder or reattach icon may also include a reattach feature or element that may be operated or activated by a user to reattach or transfer the contents of the portal page back into the portal environment or website. The reattach feature or element may include an icon or symbol representative of the function of transferring the contents of the portal page back into the portal environment. Thus the contents of the popped out or detached portal page may be replaced with a placeholder including a reattach function or icon within the portal environment.

In block a communication tunnel or tunneling communication may be established or formed between the portal environment or placeholder and the detached portal page. Accordingly communication with the detached portal page through the portal environment may continue. This permits a user to interact with the detached portal pages and portlets contained therein and permits the detached portal pages and portlets to interact with one another.

Referring also to illustrates portal page A being detached or popped out of the portal environment . Portal page A and its contents may be transferred to an independently managed window or page or the like and a placeholder may replace portal page A in the portal environment . The placeholder may include a reattach feature or icon . The detached portal page A in the window may also include a reattach element feature or icon . Tunneling communication may be created or established between the detached portal page A and the placeholder or portal environment for communication between the detached portal page A and other portal pages that may be either detached or otherwise. The tunneling communication also permits communication between portlets contained in the detached portal page and portlets in other portal pages that may be detached or still contained within the portal environment .

Referring back to in block a determination may be made if a detach feature or icon has been activated on any other portal pages. If so the method may return to block and the method may continue as previously described with respect to blocks . If the detach feature element or icon has not been activated for any other selected portal page the method may end at termination .

In block the detached portal page may be transferred from the independently managed window or page back to the portal environment in response to activating or clicking on either the reattach icon associated with the placeholder or the reattach icon or feature associated with the detached portal page A . In block a determination may be made if a reattach feature or icon has been activated on another selected detached portal page or associated placeholder. If a reattach feature has been activated on another detached portal page or associated placeholder the method may return to block and the method may proceed as previously described with respect to blocks . If a reattach feature has not been activated on any other detached portal page or placeholder the method may end at termination until a reattach feature is activated.

In block a portal page may be formed incorporating one or more portlets that include a detach feature or element. The portal page may also include other portlets that do not have the detach feature. Referring also to illustrates an example of a portal page including a plurality of portlets portlet A and portlet B . Each portlet and may include a detach function or element. In block the detach feature or element element in may be activated by a user clicking on the icon or symbol using a computer mouse or other pointing device.

In block an independently managed window or page may be formed or created in response to the detach feature being activated. Forming independently managed windows or pages is known by those skilled in the art. An independently managed window may be formed or created for each detached portlet. Alternatively one or more portlet windows or pages may be formed to retain all detached portlets depending upon the quantity and size of the contents of the detached portlets and the number of windows needed to retain or house the detached portlets. In block the detached portlet may be transferred to the independently managed window or page. In block a placeholder may be formed in the portal page to represent and hold the place for the detached portlet. The placeholder may be substantially smaller than the original portlet because of less content to occupy much less space or real estate in the portal page and to unclutter the portal page. The placeholder may also include a reattach feature or element that may be operated or activated to reattach or transfer the contents of the portlet back into the portal page. The reattach feature or element may include an icon or symbol representative of the function of transferring the contents of the portlet back into the portal page. Thus the contents of the popped out or detached portlet may be replaced with a placeholder including a reattach function or icon within the portal page. In block a communication tunnel or tunneling communication may be established or formed between the portal page or placeholder and the detached portlet. Accordingly communication with the detached portlet through the portal page may continue.

Referring also to illustrates portlet A being detached or popped out of the portal page . Portlet A and its contents may be transferred to an independently managed window or page or the like and a placeholder may replace portlet A in the portal page . The placeholder may include a reattach element or feature . The detached portlet A in the window may also include a reattach element or feature . Tunneling communication may be created or established between the detached portlet A and the placeholder or portal page .

Referring back to in block a determination may be made if a detach feature has been activated on any other portlets. If so the method may return to block and the method may continue as previously described with respect to blocks . If the detach feature or element has not been activated for any other selected portlets the method may end at termination .

The detached or undocked portlet may be reattached similar to that described in co pending patent application Ser. No. 10 708 971 or analogous to that described in with respect to reattaching a detached portal page to the portal environment or website. The reattach feature or icon in the placeholder may be activated by clicking with a computer mouse or pointing device or by other means to reattach detached portlet A to the portal page . Alternatively the reattach icon in the detached portlet A may be activated by clicking with a computer pointing device or the like to cause the detached portlet A to be reattached to the portal page .

The portal server may also include a page aggregation element . Components of the page aggregation element may be embodied in hardware or software. The page aggregation element may include a themes and skins module . Users may be able to customize or personalize pages including for example a choice of color themes skins and page layouts. Themes may be used to define fonts colors spacing and other visual elements. Themes may consist of cascading style sheets Java Script Page JSP files images or the like. Skins may be decorations and controls placed around portlets such as title bars borders shadows or similar treatments. The page aggregation element may also include a JSP tab library transcoding module and translation module to further facilitate portal customization and presentation of the portal and portlets to the user .

The portal server may also include a portlet container and services element . Components of the portlet container and services element may be embodied in hardware or software. The portlet container and service element may include a portlet Application Programming Interface API . Portlets rely on portal infrastructure to access user profile information participate in window and action events communicate with other portlets access remote content lookup credentials store persistent data and perform other functions. The portlet API provides standard interfaces for these functions or services.

The portlet container and services module may also include a portlet detach reattach feature and portlets or information to form portlets. The portlet detach reattach feature may include or embody the method of or the portlet detach and reattach features described in co pending patent application Ser. No. 10 708 971 which is incorporated herein by reference. The portlets may include portlets having detach and reattach features and portlets without such features. The portlet container and services module may also include other services or functions . Examples of other services or functions may include but is not limited to content access web page clipping searching document administration portlet proxy single sign on and the like.

The server may also include a portal page detach and reattach feature . The portal page detach and reattach feature may include or embody methods and of respectively. The graphical user interfaces to form portal pages and and the portal environment may also be embodied in portal page detach and reattach feature .

Each user or client may include a processor and input output devices . A browser or web browser may operate on the processor to facilitate accessing the portal server . The input output devices may include separate input devices output devices or combination input output devices. The input output devices may include a keyboard pointing device voice recognition system or the like. The input output devices may also include optical magnetic infrared or radio frequency devices disk drives or the like. The input devices may receive read or download software computer executable or readable instructions or the like such as software that may embody elements of the methods and of and .

Each user may access the portal server via a communication network or medium . The communication network or medium may be any communication system including by way of example dedicated communication lines telephone networks and wireless data transmission systems two way cable systems and customized computer networks interactive kiosk networks the Internet and the like.

Elements of the present invention such as methods and and of and respectively and system of may be embodied in hardware and or software as a computer program code that may include firmware resident software microcode or the like. Additionally elements of the invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in a medium for use by or in connection with a system such as system of . Examples of such a medium may be illustrated in as I O devices or medium or . A computer usable or readable medium may be any medium that may contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with a system. The medium for example may be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or the like. The medium may also be simply a stream of information being retrieved when the computer program product is downloaded through a network such as the Internet or the like. The computer usable or readable medium could also be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program may be printed.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein those of ordinary skill in the art appreciate that any arrangement which is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown and that the invention has other applications in other environments. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the present invention. The following claims are in no way intended to limit the scope of the invention to the specific embodiments described herein.

