---

title: Restoring of data to mobile computing device
abstract: A mobile computing device comprises a wireless transceiver configured to communicate with a remote server, a memory; and a processing circuit. The processing circuit is configured in a restore operation to receive first data from the remote server, to receive a source indicator for second data from the remote server, wherein the first data and second data represent data previously stored in the memory of the mobile computing device or in a memory of another mobile computing device, and to send a request for the second data based on the source indicator using the wireless transceiver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08583602&OS=08583602&RS=08583602
owner: PALM, Inc.
number: 08583602
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080605
---
Users of mobile computing devices such as mobile phones smartphones and personal digital assistants store various types of data on the devices. Contact information calendar appointments applications and web browser favorites just to name a few may all be stored on mobile computing devices. This data is also updated from time to time by a user or other data sources with new data.

Data backup systems allow data from one computing device to be backed up to a secondary memory device such as a portable hard drive server computer digital versatile disc or other memory device. The backed up data can then be restored to the same device in the event of data loss or to a new computing device in the case of the user acquiring a replacement or upgraded device. Data loss can occur if the mobile computing device is broken or if the mobile computing device is stolen or lost.

Described herein are various exemplary embodiments of systems and methods for backing up and restoring data from a mobile computing device. Some embodiments may provide better security of a database of personal user data by having the mobile computing device read the database instead of a remote server reading the database. Some embodiments may provide an orchestration or sequence of restore operations on different sets of data from the same or different backup data sources to bring a user back the user s data and functionality state at the time of a data loss event. Some embodiments simplify the process of restoring data applications and functionality to a device by freeing a user of having to manually locate and navigate to many different backup data sources to restore the device in piecemeal fashion.

The teachings herein extend to those embodiments that fall within the scope of the appended claims regardless of whether they accomplish one or more of the above mentioned exemplary advantages.

Referring to a mobile computing device is shown from various angles according to an exemplary embodiment. is a front view of device is a rear view of device are side views of device and are top and bottom views of device . The device may be any type of communications or computing device e.g. a cellular phone other mobile device digital media player e.g. audio or audio video personal digital assistant etc. .

Device may be a smart phone which is a combination mobile telephone and handheld computer having personal digital assistant PDA functionality. The teachings herein can be applied to other mobile computing devices e.g. a laptop computer or other electronic devices e.g. a desktop personal computer etc. . PDA functionality can comprise one or more of personal information management database functions word processing spreadsheets voice memo recording location based services device backup and lock media playing Internet browsing etc. and is configured to synchronize personal information or user data e.g. contacts e mail calendar notes to do list web browser favorites etc. from one or more applications with a computer e.g. desktop laptop server etc. . Device is further configured to receive and operate additional applications provided to device after manufacture e.g. via wired or wireless download Secure Digital card etc.

Device may be a handheld computer e.g. a computer small enough to be carried in a typical front pocket found in a pair of pants or other similar pocket comprising such devices as typical mobile telephones and PDAs but the term handheld and the phrase configured to be held in a hand during use excluding typical laptop computers and tablet personal computers PCs for purposes of this disclosure. In alternative embodiments the teachings herein may extend to laptop computers tablet PCs desktop PCS and other electronic devices. The various input devices and other parts of device as described below may be positioned anywhere on device e.g. the front side of the rear side of the sides of etc. .

Device includes various user input devices. For example the user input devices may include a send button usable to select options appearing on display and or send messages a 5 way navigator usable to navigate through options appearing on display a power end button usable to select options appearing on display and to turn on display a phone button usable to access a phone application screen a calendar button usable to access a calendar application screen a messaging button usable to access a messaging application screen e.g. e mail text Multimedia Messaging Service MMS etc. an applications button usable to access a screen showing available applications a thumb keyboard which includes a phone dial pad usable to dial during a phone application a volume button usable to adjust the volume of audio output of device a customizable button which a user may customize to perform various functions a ringer switch usable to switch the device from one mode to another mode such as switching from a normal ringer mode to a meeting ringer mode and a touch screen display usable to select control options displayed on display .

Device also includes various audio circuits. The audio circuits may include phone speaker usable to listen to information in a normal phone mode external speaker louder than the phone speaker e.g. for listening to music for a speakerphone mode etc. headset jack to which a user can attach an external headset which may include a speaker and or a microphone and a microphone that can be used to pick up audio information such as the user s end of a conversation during a phone call.

Device may also include a status indicator that can be used to indicate the status of device such as messages pending charging low battery etc. a stylus slot for receiving a stylus usable to input data on touch screen display a digital camera usable to capture images a mirror positioned proximate camera such that a user may view themselves in mirror when taking a picture of themselves using camera a removable battery and a connector which can be used to connect device to either or both an external power supply such as a wall outlet or battery charger or an external device such as a personal computer a global positioning system GPS unit a display unit or some other external device.

Device may also include an expansion slot that may be used to receive a memory card and or a device which communicates data through slot and a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card slot located behind battery configured to receive a SIM card or other card that allows the user to access a cellular network.

In various embodiments device may include a housing . Housing may be configured to retain or secure a screen in a fixed relationship above a plurality of user input devices in a substantially parallel or same plane. A fixed relationship may exclude a hinged or movable relationship between the screen and plurality of keys in the fixed embodiment though hinged or movable relationships may be used in other embodiments.

Housing could be any size shape and dimension. In some embodiments housing has a width shorter dimension of no more than about 200 mm or no more than about 100 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a width of no more than about 85 mm or no more than about 65 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a width of at least about 30 mm or at least about 50 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a width of at least about 55 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a length longer dimension of no more than about 200 mm or no more than about 150 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a length of no more than about 135 mm or no more than about 125 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a length of at least about 70 mm or at least about 100 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a length of at least about 110 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a thickness smallest dimension of no more than about 150 mm or no more than about 50 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a thickness of no more than about 30 mm or no more than about 25 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a thickness of at least about 10 mm or at least about 15 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a thickness of at least about 50 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a thickness of 11 mm or less.

In some embodiments housing has a volume of up to about 2500 cubic centimeters and or up to about 1500 cubic centimeters. In some of these embodiments housing has a volume of up to about 1000 cubic centimeters and or up to about 600 cubic centimeters.

Device may include an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving radio frequency signals. Each transceiver of device may include individual antennas or may include a common antenna . The antenna system may include or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

While described with regards to a handheld device many embodiments are usable with portable devices which are not handheld and or with non portable devices systems.

Device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cellular radiotelephone communication systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM cellular radiotelephone systems etc.

In addition to voice communications functionality device may be configured to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1 RTT 1 times Radio Transmission Technology systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems etc.

Device may be configured to provide voice and or data communications functionality through wireless access points WAPs in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. A wireless access point may comprise any one or more components of a wireless site used by device to create a wireless network system that connects to a wired infrastructure such as a wireless transceiver cell tower base station router cables servers or other components depending on the system architecture. Examples of wireless network systems may further include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system e.g. a cellular network and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants a wireless personal area network PAN system such as a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols.

As shown in the embodiment of device comprises a processing circuit which may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor e.g. a base band processor or modem . Host processor and radio processor may be configured to communicate with each other using an interface such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines shared memory and so forth.

Host processor may be configured to execute various computer programs e.g. software firmware or other code such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . Radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although embodiments of the dual processor architecture may be described as comprising host processor and radio processor for purposes of illustration the dual processor architecture of device may comprise one processor more than two processors may be implemented as a dual or multi core chip with both host processor and radio processor on a single chip etc. Alternatively a single processor or multiple processors may perform the functions of host processor and radio processor such as a single unified processor that handles host and radio functions or other multiprocessor topologies which do not rely on the concept of a host. Alternatively processing circuit may comprise any digital and or analog circuit elements comprising discrete and or solid state components suitable for use with the embodiments disclosed herein.

In various embodiments host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a general purpose processor. Host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in alternative embodiments.

Host processor may be configured to provide processing or computing resources to device . For example host processor may be responsible for executing various computer programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . Examples of application programs may include for example a telephone application voicemail application e mail application instant message IM application short message service SMS application multimedia message service MMS application web browser application personal information manager PIM application e.g. contact management application calendar application scheduling application task management application web site favorites or bookmarks notes application etc. word processing application spreadsheet application database application video player application audio player application multimedia player application digital camera application video camera application media management application a gaming application and so forth. The application software may provide a graphical user interface GUI to communicate information between device and a user. The computer programs may be stored as firmware on a memory associated with processor may be loaded by a manufacturer during a process of manufacturing device and may be updated from time to time with new versions or software updates via wired or wireless communication.

System programs assist in the running of a computer system. System programs may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include for example an operating system OS a kernel device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries an application programming interface API a GUI and so forth. Device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS any Linux distribution Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Device may comprise a memory coupled to host processor . In various embodiments memory may be configured to store one or more computer programs to be executed by host processor . Memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

Although memory is shown as being separate from host processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments device may comprise a memory port or expansion slot shown in to support a multimedia and or memory card for example. Processing circuit may use memory port or expansion slot to read and or write to a removable memory card having memory for example to determine whether a memory card is present in port or slot to determine an amount of available memory on the memory card to store subscribed content or other data or files on the memory card etc.

Device may comprise a user input device coupled to the host processor . User input device may comprise for example a alphanumeric numeric or QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. Device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode a keypad and so forth. Examples of such objects are shown in as 5 way navigator power end button phone button calendar button messaging button applications button thumb keyboard volume button customizable button and ringer switch .

The host processor may be coupled to display . Display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of device . For example display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

Device may comprise an I O interface coupled to the host processor . I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a PC or a remote computer system such as a computer server. In various implementations device may be configured to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system such as personal information management data stored in one or more databases in memory .

Host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

Host processor may be coupled to a power supply configured to supply and manage power to the elements of device . In various exemplary embodiments power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for device . For example radio processor may be configured to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. Radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP a media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. Radio processor may be any of a plurality of modems manufactured by Qualcomm Inc. or other manufacturers.

Device may comprise a transceiver coupled to radio processor . Transceiver may comprise one or more transceivers configured to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. For example transceiver may comprise a Wi Fi transceiver and a cellular or WAN transceiver configured to operate simultaneously.

Transceiver may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although transceiver is shown as being separate from and external to radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver may be included on the same integrated circuit as radio processor .

Device may comprise an antenna or antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown antenna system may be coupled to radio processor through transceiver . Radio tower and server are shown as examples of potential objects configured to receive a signal from antenna system .

Device may comprise a memory coupled to radio processor . Memory may be implemented using any type of memory described with reference to memory . Although memory is shown as being separate from and external to radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as radio processor . Further host processor and radio processor may share a single memory.

Device may comprise a SIM coupled to radio processor . SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card configured to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

Device may comprise an I O interface coupled to the radio processor . I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices to enable wired e.g. serial cable etc. and or wireless e.g. WiFi short range etc. communication between device and one or more external computer systems.

In various embodiments device may comprise location or position determination capabilities. Device may employ one or more position determination techniques including for example GPS techniques Cell Global Identity CGI techniques CGI including timing advance TA techniques Enhanced Forward Link Trilateration EFLT techniques Time Difference of Arrival TDOA techniques Angle of Arrival AOA techniques Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFTL techniques Observed Time Difference of Arrival OTDOA Enhanced Observed Time Difference EOTD techniques Assisted GPS AGPS techniques hybrid techniques e.g. GPS CGI AGPS CGI GPS AFTL or AGPS AFTL for CDMA networks GPS EOTD or AGPS EOTD for GSM GPRS networks GPS OTDOA or AGPS OTDOA for UMTS networks etc.

In various embodiments device may comprise dedicated hardware circuits or structures or a combination of dedicated hardware and associated software to support position determination. For example transceiver and antenna system may comprise GPS receiver or transceiver hardware and one or more associated antennas coupled to radio processor to support position determination.

Host processor may comprise and or implement at least one location based service LBS application. In general the LBS application may comprise any type of client application executed by host processor such as a GPS application configured to communicate position requests e.g. requests for position fixes and position responses. Examples of LBS applications include without limitation wireless 911 emergency services roadside assistance asset tracking fleet management friends and family locator services dating services and navigation services which may provide the user with maps directions routing traffic updates mass transit schedules information regarding local points of interest POI such as restaurants hotels landmarks and entertainment venues and other types of LBS services in accordance with the described embodiments.

Radio processor may be configured to generate a position fix by configuring a position engine and requesting a position fix. For example a position engine interface on radio processor may set configuration parameters that control the position determination process. Examples of configuration parameters may include without limitation location determination mode e.g. standalone Mobile Station assisted Mobile Station based actual or estimated number of position fixes e.g. single position fix series of position fixes request position assist data without a position fix time interval between position fixes Quality of Service QoS values optimization parameters e.g. optimized for speed accuracy or payload Position Determination Entity address e.g. IP address and port number of LPS or MPC etc. In one embodiment the position engine may be implemented as a QUALCOMM gpsOne engine.

Referring now to a block diagram illustrating a mobile computing device in communication with a plurality of backup data sources is shown. Device may be configured to communicate with data sources over wired or wireless connections which may include intermediate network connections such as a cellular network or other wireless or wired networks described herein. In various embodiments device may be configured to receive data from one two or more backup data sources which data may be stored in memory for use by applications on device . Data to be backed up may comprise one or more databases which are files comprising data of one or more types applications such as any of the applications described herein and or other data .

A backup server or storage device may be configured to store backed up data and or operate a backup operation with device for storage of one or more of databases at a memory and one or more of applications or other data at a memory storing applications. Backup server may be a server operated by or under contract with a manufacturer of device a wireless carrier operating a wireless network associated with device or another party. Backup server may be configured to store backed up data itself or on one or more different storage devices coupled thereto directly or over a network.

Backup data sources may further comprise one or more synchronization servers for backing up personal information such as contacts calendar appointments notes e mails internet browser favorites and or any other data personal to a user of device described herein or otherwise. Synchronization servers may be one or more servers associated with an internet service provider providing a service to device such as web e mail service text messaging service instant messaging service social networking service or providing access to another computer account for a user of device e.g. a work computer accessible through a synchronization server such as a Microsoft Exchange synchronization server any of which may be operable by Google Inc. Yahoo Inc. Microsoft Inc. facebook.com linkedin.com America Online Instant Messenger or other entities or services. Servers may be configured to receive updates or edits to personal information from a user via an internet web portal store the updates or edits and send transmit download and or synchronize the updates or edits with device periodically using a push pull or other model for synchronization of data between devices. Synchronization may relate to a process of mirroring changes over time among multiple data sources which may occur at a file level data level or other level. For example synchronization may operate according to an Open Mobile Alliance Data Synchronization OMA DS process which may use a synchronization markup language e.g. SyncML or other markup language. Device may be configured to receive edits to personal information stored in databases and the updates or edits may be synchronized with personal information at one or more of servers . Other data besides personal information may be synchronized with servers .

Backup data sources may further comprise application servers configured to download applications respectively. Application servers may operate similarly to backup server when downloading applications . Application servers and may be operated by parties other than the manufacturer of device for downloading applications compatible with device in response to selection or request by a user of device . A user may access application servers through device or through a desktop computer or laptop computer through an internet portal select an application provide purchase billing and or account information and download the application either over the air to device or to a desktop or laptop computer for subsequent synchronization with installation on or transfer to device . Applications may be any type of application described herein or other types of applications operable on device . According to one alternative application server may be configured to provide device with access to an application through backup server operated by a manufacturer of device via line representing a network connection e.g. the internet . For example a manufacturer of device may operate backup server and a third party developer may provide an application accessible through backup server by device . Server may further store or provide access to applications after a certification process which authenticates or issues a digital certificate for the application and or developer of the application such as that described in U.S. Patent Application No. 61 062 758 titled Secure Application Signing filed Jan. 29 2008 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Backup data sources may further comprise any other backup data source such as an external hard drive a digital versatile disk DVD a compact disk read only memory CD ROM a web based backup storage server such as the S3 backup storage solution by Amazon.com a secure digital SD card another digital memory card or other backup data sources.

Referring now to exemplary steps of adding editing updating deleting or otherwise modifying data stored on device are illustrated. While shown in a sequence the steps will occur from time to time in various order depending on user control of device . When a user purchases a mobile computing device and first powers on the device the device either has a pre stored database file e.g. created by a relational database such as a .db3 file or database or non database file type . The database file is stored in memory. As shown at step device may be configured to receive and store data from a user entered into the device via a user interface. For example a user may type in a calendar appointment new e mail address contact phone number list of to do items on a tasks application list of notes on a notes application etc. Device is configured to update the database file with this new data as the data is being entered. As shown at step device may further be configured to store a current state of one or more applications operating on the device. For example after a user opens a messaging application such as an e mail messaging application and begins to compose an e mail the current application opened the window within the application which is opened and the text typed into the draft e mail may be stored in the database to represent a current state of the device. If multiple applications are active this data may be stored as part of the state of operation of device .

As shown at step device may be configured to receive media files e.g. video files audio files digital still image files or other files from any of a plurality of sources such as a camera built into device a memory card a wireless or wired connection with a source of audio or video data etc. Media files may or may not be stored in a database.

As shown in step from time to time a user may download applications in addition to the applications installed in the device at the time of manufacture from one or more of a plurality of application servers backup server or other sources such as an attached desktop or laptop personal computer memory cards etc. The applications may be downloaded in response to a user request such as by navigating to a website or a particular page of a website using a uniform resource locator. A user may use device to download and or install the applications for use on device . A user may be required to choose a username password billing data and or other data. Device may be configured to encrypt such data and store it in a record in the database of user data on device or another database on device for use with the data source during a later restore operation.

At step device may be configured to synchronize personal information with one or more synchronization servers . According to one exemplary embodiment personal information or other data which is already stored on synchronization server may not be backed up on backup server at memory in order to save memory on server decrease the time required for backup operation etc.

Referring now to the data stored on device can be stored in one or more databases which may be a single database file a plurality of files comprising a single database or other data storage arrangements. In the exemplary embodiment of a first database i.e. database is configured to store user data and updates thereto for contacts calendar data or appointments e mails media files stock quotes received from a source of stock quotes such as a financial information web page or server data created by or used by applications operable on the device e.g. high scores for a gaming application destination favorites for a location based services application a list of pre selected persons for a friend finder application etc. . A third party developer of an application operable on device may configure the application to store data in database or in a separate database wherein the separate database may or may not get backed up during a backup operation. The first database may further comprise data representing a current state of device navigation system favorites internet browser favorites and internet browser history data e.g. representing websites visited in a previous day month hour minute etc. . The first database may further comprise other data such as usernames passwords for access to various websites which may be stored in encrypted form etc.

Database may further be configured to store source indicators for one or more applications and or source indicators for one or more backup data sources . The source indicator may comprise one or more data representing one or more backup data sources and or the locations of resources associated therewith. A source indicator may be one or more of a resource locator e.g. a uniform resource locator a web address or link an internet protocol IP address a name of a service a protocol used for communication with a data source or other source indicators. Database may be further configured to store user name and or password data for data sources to allow device to access backed up data or applications at sources through a secure connection and or with reference to a user account. Source indicators may be typed in manually or otherwise provided by a user to device typically at the time a user creates an account with a synchronization server downloads an application from an application server etc.

The databases shown in are merely exemplary and the elements of the data therein may each be stored in its own database or may be grouped in any arrangement in one or more of databases created by device and updated by device from time to time as a user enters new data downloads new applications synchronizes with synchronization sources configures new wireless configurations etc.

Referring now to exemplary steps in a backup operation operable in device are illustrated. At step one or more databases on device are configured to be backed up to backup server .

The steps of may be operable by one or more modules of a mobile computing device having one or more data files to be backed up. The data file may be any block of data or resource for storing data. In a simple form the data file may be a sequence of binary digits. The data file may comprise one or more data records or lines which may be individually different but share a common characteristic. The data file may be a text file an image file an executable file a database file or other file type.

The data files to be backed up either as part of the database or as separate files may comprise personal user information or document files such as word processing files spreadsheet files portable document format .pdf files etc. The database may comprise any data that can be stored in a database format such as a relational database such as a relational database that can be queried using a structured query language SQL and or created using a software library which implements a SQL database engine such as SQLite. The database filename may comprise a database extension such as .db3. Any data which is not backed up using one or more of the methods described herein may be backed up using other backup methods in some embodiments.

Device may be configured to store the data file in memory for example as firmware. Device may further be configured to operate a data backup application configured to perform functions relating to backup of the data file to backup server . For example the data backup application may be configured to receive user inputs indicative of backup preferences such as which backup method to implement on which data files. Backup methods may comprise any of a number of backup methods such as a full plus incremental backup in which device is configured to first transmit a full backup of substantially all of the data file or files to the backup storage device after which subsequent backup operations transmit update data files e.g. comprising one or more entire records of a data file a data block of a data file or other data indicative of changes in the data file since the immediately prior backup transmission whether full or incremental. For a restore operation this method requires downloading the full backup file along with all of the incremental backup files to restore the data file.

The backup method or operation may be a full plus differential backup in which after a full backup of the data file subsequent backup operations transmit update data files indicative of changes in the data file since the last full data backup. For a restore operation this method requires downloading the full backup file along with the last downloaded differential backup file to restore the data file.

Other backup methods may be a simple file copy or backing up or logging every change to the data file or periodic changes with some frequency e.g. less than every minute less than every hour less than every day etc. so that the user can return in a time machine fashion to an earlier point in operation of the device. Any backup embodiments may be used which are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 134 154 entitled Data Backup for a Mobile Computing Device filed concurrently herewith which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Other user inputs to the backup application may be indicative of which of certain data files or folders of files to backup or to not backup the time of day and other information regarding the period frequency or predetermined time of backups the desired backup storage device username and or password data and or other user inputs. For example the backup application may be configured to backup data once per day less than three times per day etc.

As shown at steps device may be configured to transmit databases and or other files to backup server . The data files may comprise substantially all of the data in the data file as stored on device which may be compressed or uncompressed encrypted or unencrypted or otherwise processed prior to transmission. Device may then be configured to receive and store changes or updates to the data file such as data additions data deletions data edits etc. made to data blocks records or other portions of the data files. The changes or updates may be received from a user typing in the update from an application making a change based on certain predetermined conditions by synchronization operations with other computers via wired or wireless communications or by other methods of receiving updated or changed data. Device is configured to change or update the data file to create a changed or updated data file stored in memory on device . Device may further be configured to store an indication that a change or update has occurred to the data file.

At a predetermined time step for example as set by a user manufacturer or wireless carrier associated with device device is configured to determine whether a change or update has occurred since a previous backup transmission e.g. whether a full backup transmission update data transmission etc. and if so to transmit data indicative of the changes made to the data file to server . The data indicative of the changes may comprise indications of one or more of data added data deleted new data records etc. since a previous backup of the data file to server . The data indicative of the changes may be the data changes in any format data files comprising the changes compressed and or encrypted data indicative of the changes data converted to another format based on the changes or other data indicative of the changes. The predetermined time may be periodic and may be set and or stored by a scheduler module which may be part of a backup application operable on device . For example the predetermined time may be midnight after 10 PM before 6 AM etc. Device may be configured to determine whether a change or update has occurred by checking a change indication bit or byte stored in memory e.g. non volatile memory by checking a version number of a data file etc. If a change has occurred device is configured to extract the changes or update data e.g. substantially all of the changes made a portion of the changes made etc. from the data file compress the update data to form a compressed file of update data and transmit the update data in the form of a compressed file to server step using the wireless transceiver. Compression may be done using a ZIP compression or other compression method. The transmitted data is indicative of changes made to the data file on device and may be in any of a plurality of forms such as the updated data blocks or records themselves e.g. only data blocks or records within the data file which have been updated or changed since a previous backup transmission a compressed form of the updated data blocks or records encrypted converted to a database file format or otherwise processed. The update data transmission may comprise an incremental data file a differential data file a delta data file etc. to indicate changes made to the data file on device . The preceding steps may be repeated serially or in parallel for different data files to be backed up e.g. one or more databases of user data data files for other applications etc. .

As shown at step synchronization with synchronization servers may occur on a different time schedule than backup steps . For example synchronization may occur several times a day while backup occurs once daily. Further synchronization may occur at the request of server and or while backup occurs at the request of device or vice versa.

According to one exemplary embodiment device may be configured to omit or not backup certain data which is already backed up at another backup data source. For example if personal data is synchronized and or backed up by synchronization servers or device may be configured to not back up that data as part of the database stored in memory on backup server .

Referring now to a block diagram of an exemplary backup and restore system will be described. Portions of the block diagram of may be implemented using one or more of the methods and devices described herein. The system comprises a device and a server comprising an account services server a backup server and a storage device . Servers and and storage device may be separate computing devices or modules of a single computing device or each may comprise multiple computing devices in various embodiments. Device is configured to store data files comprising a database of user data and other data files .

According to one embodiment which will now be described a backup of database may comprise storing a copy of database with all updates since the last backup on the server side. However any type of backup operation may be implemented on the system of and used with the restore operations described herein. Device is configured to extract changes made to the data files and to provide data indicative of the changes to a communication module . Storage device may comprise a local memory on server a separate storage device over a network connection from server a third party online storage service such as Amazon S3 Simple Storage Service provided by Amazon Web Services of Amazon.com Inc. Seattle Wash. etc. and may be remote from the device e.g. at a server location separated from device by a wireless connection etc. . Storage device may be operated by a manufacturer of device or by another party.

Communication module may be configured to communicate with a communication module on server and or a communication module on server using any of the communication methods described herein e.g. cellular IEEE 802.11x etc. . Modules and may be synchronization modules configured to facilitate synchronization of data between device and server . More specifically modules and may be configured to communicate using a markup language such as a SyncML Synchronization Markup Language standard. Modules and may be configured to synchronize data from applications e.g. contacts calendar e mail text messages push e mail etc. and may further be used for backup and or restore operations such as those described herein. Advantageously modules and may be configured in response to an interruption in a synchronization of a file to cease synchronization and or resume synchronization without starting at the beginning of the file being synchronized. For example synchronization after an interruption may resume substantially at the point in the file where the interruption occurred. The interruption may be caused by a loss of a communication signal another process e.g. a phone call using the communication signal used for synchronization etc.

Module may be configured to communicate with servers and using an OMA DM Open Mobile Alliance for Device Management or OMA DS Open Mobil Alliance for Device Synchronization communication or synchronization protocol. OMA DM and OMA DS protocols may use a markup language such as XML Extensible Markup Language or a SyncML markup language. These protocols may use any data transport layer such as a wired layer e.g. USB RS 232 etc. or wireless layer GSM CDMA IrDA Bluetooth etc. and may be implemented over any of a wireless application protocol WAP HTTP Object Exchange OBEX or other transports. These protocols may use a request response message exchange method in which a requester sends a request message to a replier system which receives and replies to the request with a response message. These protocols may use authentication and or security on server side and or device side e.g. which may be a mutual authentication to identify the senders of each message. These protocols may initiate a communication session from a server which may occur asynchronously and may use WAP push SMS or other messaging systems. These protocols may initiate a communication with a notification or alert message from server to device or vice versa to notify the other of a desire to establish a communication session. These protocols may be configured to enable communications among more than two devices. While this exemplary embodiment is described with reference to OMA DM and OMA DS protocols other protocols e.g. using a Transmission Control Protocol TCP or other protocol having one or more of the characteristics described above or other characteristics may be used.

According to one exemplary embodiment device may be configured as a master to one or more devices on the server side such as backup server . Module and module may be configured in a manner that module wins e.g. a client win configuration any discrepancy in synchronized data between device and module . According to another exemplary embodiment communications described herein may transfer binary data using an extension of an OMA protocol that generically supports any data type rather than an extension configured to handle a certain specific data type.

In response to a request message from device to server server is configured to authenticate the request message and identify a user account associated with device before changing the data file stored on storage device . Server may be configured to establish an account receive a user request for a backup service process payment etc. Server may further be configured to communicate with backup server .

During a backup operation module is configured at the predetermined period e.g. once per day etc. to query database and or files to determine whether any changes have been made to the data stored therein. If data has been changed module is configured to establish a communication session with module as described above. Module is then configured to extract the changes from database and or files compress the complete file if a first or full backup or data indicative of changes if a subsequent update backup operation and transmit the data files and or data indicative of changes to the data files to module .

Module under control of a processor or data processor is configured to receive the backup data from module and identify any full data files corresponding to received data indicative of updates. Any corresponding full data file is retrieved from storage device and decrypted and decompressed at a storage services module so that it may be edited. Data processor is then configured to receive the data indicative of changes from module decompress the data and apply the data indicative of changes to the full data file. The updated or changed data file is then compressed and encrypted by module and returned to storage device .

After updating module is configured to send a message to module indicating that updating has been completed. In response to this or based on other circumstances device is configured to mark or identify a point in time indicating when or which data has been backed up and or applied to the data file stored on the server side e.g. in storage device . At the next predetermined backup time device is configured to read the mark or identification and determine which changes to process for the next backup operation based on the mark or identification.

As mentioned during a subsequent restore operation of the data file to the device or a different mobile computing device server may be configured to download the updated data file without the need to also download incremental or differential data files because the updated data file already represents any data updates from backup transmissions. Any of a plurality of restore operations may be used. For example server may be configured to receive a request to download data to device or to a second mobile computing device for example if a user replaces their device with a new device if a user uses two or more devices etc. . In response to the request server may be configured to transmit the changed data file to device or the second mobile computing device. According to one embodiment the transmission is of the changed data file e.g. the substantially full or complete updated or changed data file without sending individual incremental data files.

Referring now operations relating to a restore operation are shown. At step device is configured to send a request to begin a restore operation. At step server is configured to authenticate the sender or request message of device using any type of authentication method e.g. shared secret electronic signature crypt key etc. . If authenticated the method proceeds to step at which server is configured to determine whether device is authorized to perform a restore operation. For example server determines whether device has a backup and or restore service associated with an account for device e.g. a user of device has purchased or has as a feature of its account a backup and or restore service. If authorized to restore at step server is configured to communicate to device and or server that a restore operation is authorized in which case a restore operation is initiated by way of modules and .

At step server is configured to receive credentials e.g. one or more of a username password key identifier etc. for or from device via modules or via server and to send a request to server to verify the credentials. If server verifies the credentials steps and proceed with data processor and a storage manager operable on server and or storage device respectively to carry out the requested restore operation. At step backup data is retrieved from storage device and restored to device via modules and which can occur as described below with reference to .

Referring now to an exemplary restore process will be described. A user may have purchased a new device or has lost data on device . For example a user may have lost device and requested through backup server that server send a message to device to delete all data one or more files of data such as a database of personal data or other data on device e.g. in a data wipe or kill pill type operation to prevent another person from accessing the data who finds the device.

In any event device may be configured to orchestrate a progression of restoring data of different types from one or more of backup data sources which may occur in any order. At a step first data comprising one or more of databases are downloaded or received from backup server and stored in memory on device . The storing may comprise overwriting or swapping an existing database of user data on device if a corresponding database already exists. For example upon first power up of a device or after a reset e.g. hard reset removing battery power etc. device will create a user data database for saving personal information from personal information management applications. At step the downloading of a user data database from backup server may overwrite or replace the previously created user data database.

At this point device may be configured to allow applications and the user to use the user data database or other databases downloaded at step in which case further restore steps may operate in the background while the user is allowed to use the applications and the databases. Thus the processing circuit of device may be configured to receive a user request for backed up data in a first group or category e.g. a user data database which has been downloaded by providing some or all of the first backed up data from the memory to the user to a memory device or otherwise for use by an application or a device in communication with device before a second backed up data has been downloaded and or installed. The second backed up data may be additional personal information data synchronized with a synchronization server an application and or data associated with an application downloaded from application server and or backup server or data from other backup data sources . The backed up data in the first and second categories which may or may not be different types of data described here may be from the same remote source such as backup server or from different remote sources. Even in a restore mode or restore operation device may be configured to provide access to data already restored to device to allow at least some functionality of the device while the restore process continues.

At step device is configured to identify a source of second data which has been backed up for restoring. An identifier of a source of the second data to be restored may be received or downloaded from backup server which may or may not be part of the database of the first data which was downloaded. In one exemplary embodiment device is configured to read source indicator data in the downloaded database to identify a source of second data for download. For example the database may have a uniform resource locator for an application to be downloaded from application server or may comprise data about an account a user of device has for synchronization server for downloading of contacts e mails etc. At step the source may be identified without requiring user input such as by reading a source from a database reading a source from a memory local to device which was not deleted or lost during a loss of data situation reading from a memory card or otherwise identifying without requiring a user to type a URL into device . Device may be configured to perform one or more of these steps automatically or without user input identify a source of second data send a request to a data source for the data based on the identified source indicator download such requested data save and or install the downloaded data on device select a next data for download etc. Alternatively one or more of the foregoing steps may be done with one or more forms of user input such as a pop up seeking user OK or approval a period of delay after which the process will proceed without user input a prompt to enter a username and or password a prompt to receive a user selection of an order in which data is to be restored etc.

At step device may be configured to identify a username password or other data or metadata needed to download additional backup data one or more of which may be stored in encrypted form in the database . In a case where backup server stores or provides access to all of the applications stored on device one password may be all that is required for device to restore by downloading and installing all of the applications which previously operated on device at the time of the last backup operation. In a case where applications are stored at more than one server username and or password data may be stored in the downloaded database for each server or user account so that device may access those applications which may again be done without requiring user input during a restore operation.

At step device is configured to send a request for the second data based on the source indicator preferably through a wireless communication. Device is configured to download and or synchronize additional data from a first of the additional backup sources then subsequent sources as indicated by step until all backed up data is restored. Receiving backed up data from sources may occur serially as shown in or may occur in parallel in which data from a plurality of sources is downloaded simultaneously or interlaced with each other in a communication session. As mentioned device may be configured to provide the user with access to any restored data or application even while additional data or applications or data used by applications are restored in the background which access may be provided for use with the application prior to or during downloading the additional data or applications from backup data sources . If an application is downloaded from application server data associated with that application e.g. user data library files etc. may also be downloaded and restored to device .

Backed up data may be downloaded in any order. In one example a database of user data such as that shown in as database is downloaded and restored first. In this example the device or portions thereof may not be useable until the database has been downloaded and restored which may take several minutes depending on the size of the database wireless speed and bandwidth etc. Next any user files not backed up as part of database are downloaded and restored e.g. database ringtones audio files word processing files spreadsheet files .pdf files etc. . Processing circuit of device is configured to read from database source indicator data for applications which previously operated on device or a device to be replaced by device . Circuit is then configured to download and install those applications. Updates to those applications may also be checked for by device or the data source and downloaded and installed along with the applications. Next processing circuit is configured to read from database source indicator data for any synchronization data sources previously used by device or a device to be replaced by device and to launch or begin one or more synchronization processes to receive data e.g. personal information such as contacts calendar appointments etc. from synchronization servers .

Device may be configured to display indications to a user at one or more points during a restore operation. For example device may display an indication that a restore operation had begun or is in process which may be displayed at a bottom or top portion of the screen covering less than 20 or less than 10 of the screen area. Device may provide an indication of a status of a file being downloaded e.g. application X requested application X downloading installing application X etc. . Device may provide an indication of all source indicators found in a restored database e.g. found application X application Y and synchronization data sources A and B and beginning restore operation. 

An application download may comprise downloading a thin client or other local data or reference to an application operable on a remote server. Thus applications do not need to be fully downloaded applications on device in order to be backed up.

While the mobile computing device reads a database of user data to identify additional backup sources in one exemplary embodiment described herein a server computer may alternatively perform this function and then contact other backup data sources for downloading data and orchestrating or carrying out a backup operation.

According to one exemplary embodiment a computer program may be stored as firmware or other code on the mobile computing device to initiate and or conduct a restore operation in any of the embodiments described herein using the processing circuit of the device.

According to one exemplary embodiment the mobile computing device operates to restore data from various different sources whether or not the sources are associated with a manufacturer of the mobile computing device to free the user from having to manually go to various different places and bring down the data. In alternative embodiments some user interaction may be used for example to download data from sources not known to device requiring additional security data not stored in device etc.

The embodiments disclosed herein have been described with reference to block diagrams and flow diagrams. Each block may represent one or more computer programs e.g. software firmware etc. and or the hardware or processing circuitry on which the computer programs operate e.g. microprocessors microcontrollers applications specific integrated circuits programmable logic programmable gate array etc. . Use of the term module herein may refer to either computer program and or circuit components operating the computer program to carry out the functions described herein. Modules may interface with other modules at a hardware and or computer program level and may operate at and or interface with other modules at any applicable computer program level specified in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI model such as application layer presentation layer session layer transport layer network layer data link physical layer etc. Modules may be represented by a block multiple blocks or portions of blocks in the various figures herein.

While the exemplary embodiments illustrated in the FIGS and described above are presently exemplary it should be understood that these embodiments are offered by way of example only. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to a particular embodiment but extends to various modifications that nevertheless fall within the scope of the appended claims.

