---

title: Architectural design for make-to-specification application software
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing plan-driven procurement. The application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service interfaces, and multiple service operations, each being implemented for a respective process component. The process components include The process components include an RFQ Processing process component, a Purchase Request Processing process component, a Purchase Order Processing process component, a Purchasing Contract Processing process component, a Supplier Invoice Processing process component, a Supply and Demand Matching process component, an External Procurement Trigger and Response process component, and a Customer Requirement Processing process component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08401908&OS=08401908&RS=08401908
owner: SAP AG
number: 08401908
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20081203
---
The subject matter of this patent application relates to computer software architecture and more particularly to the architecture of application software for make to specification services.

Enterprise software systems are generally large and complex. Such systems can require many different components distributed across many different hardware platforms possibly in several different geographical locations. Thus the architecture of a large software application i.e. what its components are and how they fit together is an important aspect of its design for a successful implementation.

This specification presents a software architecture design for a software application implementing make to specification services.

In its various aspects the present disclosure can be implemented as methods systems and apparatus including computer program products for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing make to specification services. The software application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service interfaces and multiple service operations each being implemented for a respective process component. The process components include an RFQ Processing process component a Purchase Request Processing process component a Purchase Order Processing process component a Purchasing Contract Processing process component a Supplier Invoice Processing process component a Supply and Demand Matching process component an External Procurement Trigger and Response process component a Customer Requirement Processing process component a Logistics Execution Control process component a Production Trigger and Response process component a Production process component an Inventory Processing process component an Inbound Delivery Processing process component a Site Logistics Processing process component an Outbound Delivery Processing process component a Production and Site Logistics Auxiliaries Processing process component a Freight Documents Processing process component a Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component a Due Item Processing process component a Payment Processing process component an Accounting process component a Customer Invoice Processing process component a Customer Quote Processing process component a Sales Order Processing process component a Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component a Production Requirement Specification Processing process component and a Goods Tag Processing process component.

In its various aspects the present disclosure can further be implemented as methods systems and apparatus including computer program products implementing a software architecture design for a software application that is adapted to interact with external software systems through the service operations described in reference to external process components or a sub combination of them.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Effective use is made of process components as units of software reuse to provide a design that can be implemented reliably in a cost effective way. Effective use is made of deployment units each of which is deployable on a separate computer hardware platform independent of every other deployment unit to provide a scalable design. Service interfaces of the process components define a pair wise interaction between pairs of process components that are in different deployment units in a scalable way.

Details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and in the description below. Further features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As shown in B C and D the make to specification design includes a Strategic Sourcing deployment unit a Purchasing deployment unit a Supplier Invoicing deployment unit a Supply Chain Control deployment unit a Production and Site Logistics Execution deployment unit a Financials deployment unit a Customer Invoicing deployment unit a Customer Relationship Management deployment unit and a Foundation deployment unit .

As shown in the Strategic Sourcing deployment unit includes an RFQ Processing process component . The RFQ Processing process component represents the processing of requests for quotes and supplier quotes for strategic as well as operational negotiation purposes.

The Purchase deployment unit includes a Purchase Request Processing process component a Purchase Order Processing process component and a Purchasing Contract Processing process component . The Purchase Request Processing process component can create change and process purchase requests to locate appropriate external sources of supply. The Purchase Order Processing process component can create and maintain purchase orders and purchase order confirmations. The Purchasing Contract Processing process component creates and maintains purchasing contracts.

The Supplier Invoicing deployment unit includes a Supplier Invoice Processing process component . The process component handles the management and volume processing of supplier invoices e.g. exception handling and approval .

The Supply Chain Control deployment unit includes a Supply and Demand Matching process component an External Procurement Trigger and Response process component a Customer Requirement Processing process component a Logistics Execution Control process component and a Production Trigger and Response process component . The Supply and Demand Matching process component manages all the tasks necessary to ensure that sufficient material receipt elements exist to cover material demand while taking available capacity into account. The External Procurement Trigger and Response process component manages all the tasks necessary for processing procurement planning and procurement release orders and the interface to purchasing accounting supplier invoicing outbound delivery and the supplier from a supply planning and control perspective. The Customer Requirement Processing process component controls customer requirements in the supply chain. For example it can check material availability receiving preparing and passing customer requirements on to supply planning and logistics and providing feedback on fulfillment. The Logistics Execution Control process component can create control and monitor the supply chain execution activities that are necessary for the fulfillment of an order on a macro logistics level. For example it can trigger the necessary site logistics activities and receives information about the supply chain execution progress. The Production Trigger and Response process component handles production requisitions receive information about the production progress and update the planning data accordingly.

The software architectural design for a make to order specification software application also includes a Source of Supply Determination process component . The process component represents the maintenance of and access to sources of supply and quota arrangements for external and internal procurement processes.

A number of external process components will be used to describe the architectural design these include an Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component a Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component a Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component and a Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor process component .

As shown in the Production and Site Logistics Execution deployment unit includes a Production process component a Site Logistics Processing process component an Inventory Processing process component an Outbound Delivery Processing process component an Inbound Delivery Processing process component a Production and Site Logistics Auxiliaries Processing process component and a Freight Document Processing process component .

The Production process component executes the production on the shop floor. For example it can comprise the preparation execution confirmation and completion as well as the more general functions such as scheduling and monitoring. The Site Logistics Processing process component can prepare physically execute and confirm the logistics processes within a site. Logistics processes which are based on site logistics process models include picking shipping and receiving. The Inventory Processing process component manages the inventory and recording of inventory changes. It provides services to maintain current stock content and structure of logistic units and allocations. The Outbound Delivery Processing process component manages and processes the outbound delivery requirements for shipping goods to a product recipient. For example it can combine all document based tasks for the outbound delivery process and enable communication with the originating document fulfillment the product recipient and invoicing. The Inbound Delivery Processing process component manages and processes the inbound delivery requirements for received goods from a vendor. For example it can combine all document based tasks for the inbound delivery process and enable communication with the originating document fulfillment the vendor and invoicing. The Production and Site Logistics Auxiliaries Processing process component supports the functionality valid for multiple process components in the DU Production and Site Logistics Execution. The Freight Documents Processing process component can process the freight related documents for shipping purposes.

A number of external process components will be used to describe the architectural design these include an Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component an Outbound Delivery Processing at Supplier process component and a Transportation Management at Freight Forwarder process component .

As shown in the Financials deployment unit includes a Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component a Due Item Processing process component an Accounting process component and a Payment Processing process component . The Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component can collect process and report the receivables and payables according to foreign trade regulations that are required by the financial authority of a country e.g. the central bank . The Due Item Processing process component can collect manage and monitor the trade receivables or payables and corresponding sales tax or withholding tax. The Accounting process component represents the business transactions for valuation and profitability analysis. The Payment Processing process component processes and manages the payments. The process component is responsible for the associated communication with financial institutions such as banks and provides the primary input for liquidity management.

The Customer Invoicing deployment unit includes a Customer Invoice Processing process component . The process component represents the invoicing of customers for the delivery of goods or the provision of services.

A number of external process components will be used to describe the architectural design these include a Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component a Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component a Payment Processing at Business Partner process component and a Supplier Invoice Processing at Customer process component .

As shown in the Customer Relationship Management deployment unit includes a Customer Quote Processing process component and a Sales Order Processing process component . The Customer Quote Processing process component processes the quotes to customers offering the delivery of goods according to specific terms. The Sales Order Processing process component processes the customers requests to seller for the delivery of goods on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price.

The Financials deployment unit includes a Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component . The process component represents the management of financial accounting master data that is used both for accounting and costing purposes.

A number of external process components described below will be used to describe the architectural design. These include an RFQ Processing at Customer process component a Purchase Order Processing at Customer process component an External Product Requirement Specification Processing process component an External Tax Calculation process component and a Settlement Processing at Clearing House process component

The foundation layer described below includes a Pricing Engine process component and a Payment Authorization process component . The Pricing Engine process component handles the processing of price and tax calculation. The Payment Authorization process component handles the processing of an authorization request for a payment made using a payment card at a clearing house.

The foundation layer also includes the Foundation deployment unit which includes a Product Requirement Specification Processing process component and a Goods Tag Processing process component .

Not explicitly represented in the figures is a foundation layer that contains all fundamental entities that are used in multiple deployment units. These entities can be process components business objects and reuse service components. A reuse service component is a piece of software that is reused in different transactions. A reuse service component is used by its defined interfaces which can be e.g. local APIs Application Programming Interfaces or service interfaces.

In contrast to a deployment unit the foundation layer does not define a limit for application defined transactions. Deployment units communicate directly with entities in the foundation layer which communication is typically not message based. The foundation layer is active in every system instance on which the application is deployed. Business objects in the foundation layer will generally be master data objects. In addition the foundation layer will include some business process objects that are used by multiple deployment units. Master data objects and business process objects that should be specific to a deployment unit are assigned to their respective deployment unit.

A process component of an external system is drawn as a dashed line process component drawn as icon . Such a process component may be referred to as an external process component and it is used to represent the external system in describing interactions with the external system however this should be understood to require no more of the external system than that it be able to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

Interactions between process component pairs involving their respective business objects process agents operations interfaces and messages are described as process component interactions which determine the interactions of a pair of process components across a deployment unit boundary i.e. from one deployment unit to another deployment unit. Interactions between process components are indicated in by directed lines arrows . Interactions between process components within a deployment unit need not be described except to note that they exist as these interactions are not constrained by the architectural design and can be implemented in any convenient fashion. Interactions between process components that cross a deployment unit boundary will be illustrated by the figures of this patent application these figures will show the relevant elements associated with potential interaction between two process components but interfaces process agents and business objects that are not relevant to the potential interaction will not be shown.

The architectural design is a specification of a computer software application and elements of the architectural design can be implemented to realize a software application that implements the end to end process mentioned earlier. The elements of the architecture are at times described in this specification as being contained or included in other elements for example a process component is described as being contained in a deployment unit. It should be understood however that such operational inclusion can be realized in a variety of ways and is not limited to a physical inclusion of the entirety of one element in another.

The architectural elements include the business object. A business object is a representation of a type of a uniquely identifiable business entity an object instance described by a structural model. Processes operate on business objects.

A business object represents a specific view on some well defined business content. A business object represents content which a typical business user would expect and understand with little explanation. Business objects are further categorized as business process objects and master data objects. A master data object is an object that encapsulates master data i.e. data that is valid for a period of time . A business process object which is the kind of business object generally found in a process component is an object that encapsulates transactional data i.e. data that is valid for a point in time . The term business object will be used generically to refer to a business process object and a master data object unless the context requires otherwise. Whether an object as a type or an instance of an object is intended by the term object is generally clear from the context so the distinction will be made explicitly only when necessary. Also for convenience and brevity an object instance may be described in this specification as being or including a real world event activity item or the like however such description should be understood as stating that the object instance represents i.e. contains data representing the respective event activity item or the like. Properly implemented business objects are implemented free of redundancies.

The architectural elements also include the process component. A process component is a software package that realizes a business process and generally exposes its functionality as services. The functionality includes the ability to perform all or parts of particular kinds of business transactions. A process component contains one or more semantically related business objects. Any business object belongs to no more than one process component.

Process components are modular and context independent. That they are context independent means that a process component is not specific to any specific application and is reusable. The process component is the smallest most granular element of reuse in the architecture.

The architectural elements also include the operation. An operation belongs to exactly one process component. A process component generally has multiple operations. Operations can be synchronous or asynchronous corresponding to synchronous or asynchronous process agents which will be described below. An operation is the smallest separately callable function described by a set of data types used as input output and fault parameters serving as a signature.

The architectural elements optionally include the service interface referred to simply as the interface. An interface is a named group of operations. Each operation belongs to exactly one interface. An interface belongs to exactly one process component. A process component might implement multiple interfaces. In some implementations an interface will have only inbound or outbound operations but not a mixture of both. One interface can include both synchronous and asynchronous operations. All operations of the same type either inbound or outbound which belong to the same message choreography will belong to the same interface. Thus generally all outbound operations to the same other process component are in one interface.

The architectural elements also include the message. Operations transmit and receive messages. Any convenient messaging infrastructure can be used. A message is information conveyed from one process component instance to another with the expectation that activity will ensue. An operation can use multiple message types for inbound outbound or error messages. When two process components are in different deployment units invocation of an operation of one process component by the other process component is accomplished by an operation on the other process component sending a message to the first process component.

The architectural elements also include the process agent. Process agents do business processing that involves the sending or receiving of messages. Each operation will generally have at least one associated process agent. A process agent can be associated with one or more operations. Process agents can be either inbound or outbound and either synchronous or asynchronous.

Asynchronous outbound process agents are called after a business object changes e.g. after a create update or delete of a business object instance.

An outbound process agent will generally perform some processing of the data of the business object instance whose change triggered the event. An outbound agent triggers subsequent business process steps by sending messages using well defined outbound services to another process component which generally will be in another deployment unit or to an external system. An outbound process agent is linked to the one business object that triggers the agent but it is sent not to another business object but rather to another process component. Thus the outbound process agent can be implemented without knowledge of the exact business object design of the recipient process component.

Inbound process agents are called after a message has been received. Inbound process agents are used for the inbound part of a message based communication. An inbound process agent starts the execution of the business process step requested in a message by creating or updating one or multiple business object instances. An inbound process agent is not the agent of a business object but of its process component. An inbound process agent can act on multiple business objects in a process component.

Synchronous agents are used when a process component requires a more or less immediate response from another process component and is waiting for that response to continue its work.

Operations and process components are described in this specification in terms of process agents. However in alternative implementations process components and operations can be implemented without use of agents using other conventional techniques to perform the functions described in this specification.

The architectural elements also include the deployment unit. A deployment unit includes one or more process components that are deployed together on a single computer system platform. Conversely separate deployment units can be deployed on separate physical computing systems. For this reason a deployment unit boundary defines the limits of an application defined transaction i.e. a set of actions that have the ACID properties of atomicity consistency isolation and durability. To make use of database manager facilities the architecture requires that all operations of such a transaction be performed on one physical database as a consequence the processes of such a transaction must be performed by the process components of one instance of one deployment unit.

The process components of one deployment unit interact with those of another deployment unit using messages passed through one or more data communication networks or other suitable communication channels. Thus a deployment unit deployed on a platform belonging one business can interact with a deployment unit software entity deployed on a separate platform belonging to a different and unrelated business allowing for business to business communication. More than one instance of a given deployment unit can execute at the same time on the same computing system or on separate physical computing systems. This arrangement allows the functionality offered by a deployment unit to be scaled to meet demand by creating as many instances as needed.

Since interaction between deployment units is through service operations a deployment unit can be replaced by other another deployment unit as long as the new deployment unit supports the operations depended upon by other deployment units. Thus while deployment units can depend on the external interfaces of process components in other deployment units deployment units are not dependent on process component interaction within other deployment units. Similarly process components that interact with other process components or external systems only through messages e.g. as sent and received by operations can also be replaced as long as the replacement supports the operations of the original.

Interactions Between Process Components Customer Quote Processing and Customer Requirement Processing 

As shown in the Customer Quote Processing process component includes a Customer Quote business object . The Customer Quote business object represents an offer by a seller to a customer for the delivery of goods or services according to fixed terms. For example the offer is legally binding for the seller for a specific period of time.

The Customer Quote business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Availability from Customer Quote to Customer Requirement synchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Request Product Availability Information operation . The Request Product Availability Information operation sends non binding query for the availability of specified amounts of specified products at specified dates to request product availability information for customer quote items. The operation is included in a Fulfillment Out interface . In this example the Request Product Availability Information operation sends a Product Availability Query message to the Customer Requirement Processing process component .

A Check availability operation receives the Product Availability Query message . The operation is included in a Fulfillment In interface . The operation can check the availability of certain amounts of materials at certain dates and sends this information back to the caller. In this example the Check Availability operation sends a Product Availability Response message that includes non binding information which amounts of products are available at which dates to the Customer Quote Processing process component . The message is received by the Request Product Availability Information operation .

The Check Availability operation uses a Check Availability synchronous inbound process agent to update a Customer Requirement business object . The customer requirement business object represents a requirement that is derived from a sales order customer quote service order or that is an intra company stock transfer requirement and to which details on the anticipated availability date of materials required to fulfill the requirement may be added. It contains the quantities of materials required at specific dates as well as information about which materials will be available or delivered in which quantities at which dates.

The Site Logistics Processing process component includes a Site Logistics Confirmation business object . The Site Logistics Confirmation business object represents a record of confirmed logistic process changes which result from the execution of a site logistics process at a specific time e.g. inventory changes plan adjustments resource utilizations or progress status changes .

The Site Logistics Confirmation business object uses a Notify of Inventory Change from Site Logistics Confirmation to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation or a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation . The Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation notifies the Accounting process component about inventory changes for physical goods and activity confirmations. Additionally the operation can trigger a valuation of the relevant inventory changes and activities. The Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation notifies the Accounting process component about a cancellation of inventory changes and activity confirmations sent earlier. Both operations and are included in an Inventory and Activity Accounting Out interface .

If the Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation is invoked then an Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation is invoked then an Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Accounting Cancellation Request Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . The notification message is received by a Create Accounting Document operation . The operation can create an accounting document based on inventory data received from the Site Logistics Processing process component . In some implementations the received data can first be converted into an accounting notification from which one or more accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books.

The Activity Confirmation Accounting Cancellation Request Notification message is received by a Cancel Accounting Document operation . The operation can cancel an existing accounting document based on cancellation data received from the Site Logistics Processing process component . In some implementations the received data can be converted into an accounting notification from which one or more reversal accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books. The operations and are included in an Inventory and Activity Accounting In interface . The operations and use a Maintain Accounting Document based on Inventory and Activity inbound process agent to update an Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to the Financials deployment unit by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example it represents this operational business transaction in a standardized form for business transaction documents and contains the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

Interactions Between Process Components Logistics Execution Control and Outbound Delivery Processing 

As shown in the Logistics Execution Control process component includes a Logistics Execution Requisition business object . The Logistics Execution Requisition business object represents a requisition to the Logistics Execution Control process component to control trigger and monitor the execution of a logistic process on a macro logistics level to fulfill an order. The Logistics Execution Requisition business object uses a Request Fulfillment from Logistics Execution Request to Outbound Delivery Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Delivery Fulfillment operation . The operation creates or updates an inbound or outbound delivery request.

The Request Delivery Fulfillment operation is included in a Fulfillment Out interface . The operation sends a Delivery Request Fulfillment message to the Outbound Delivery Processing process component .

A Maintain Outbound Delivery Request operation receives the Delivery Request Fulfillment message . The operation is included in a Fulfillment In interface . The Maintain Outbound Delivery Request operation receives an outbound delivery fulfillment request. The Maintain Outbound Delivery Request operation uses a Maintain Outbound Delivery Request inbound process agent to update an Outbound Delivery Request business object . The Outbound Delivery Request business object represents a request to a vendor to compose goods for shipping.

The Outbound Delivery Request business object uses a Confirm Fulfillment of Outbound Delivery Request to Logistics Execution Control outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Fulfillment operation included in a Fulfillment Out interface . The Confirm Fulfillment of Outbound Delivery Request to Logistics Execution Control outbound process agent can also invoke an optional Notify Planning of Delivery Request Confirmation Reconciliation Description operation in a Fulfillment Out interface . The Confirm Fulfillment operation confirms and fulfills an outbound delivery request. The optional Notify Planning of Delivery Request Confirmation Reconciliation Description operation notifies the Logistics Execution Control process component of a delivery request fulfillment confirmation for reconciliation purposes.

The Confirm Fulfillment operation can send a Delivery Request Fulfillment Confirmation message to the Logistics Execution Control process component . The Change Logistics Execution Requisition based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation operation receives the message . The operation uses a Change Logistics Execution Requisition based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Logistics Execution Requisition business object .

The optional Notify Planning of Delivery Request Confirmation Reconciliation Description operation sends a Delivery Request Fulfillment Confirmation Reconciliation Notification message to the Logistics Execution Control process component . An optional Change Based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation Reconciliation Notification operation receives the message . The operation uses the Change Logistics Execution Requisition based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Logistics Execution Requisition business object .

As shown in the Customer Invoice Processing process component includes a Customer Invoice business object . The Customer Invoice business object represents a binding statement of amounts receivable resulting for example from deliveries to a customer services performed for a customer adjustments to these receivables or credit memos to a customer.

The Customer Invoice business object uses a Notify of Customer Invoice to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice operation . The operation informs the Accounting process component about the creation of invoices or credit memos. The Notify of Customer Invoice to Accounting outbound process agent can also invoke a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation . The operation informs the Accounting process component about the cancellation of invoices or credit memos. The operations and are included in an Invoice Accounting Out interface .

If the operation is invoked it sends an Invoice Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component . A Create Accounting Document operation receives the message . The operation creates an accounting document based on invoice data received from the Customer Invoice Processing process component . In some implementations the received data can first be converted into an accounting notification from which one or more accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books. The Create Accounting Document operation uses a Maintain Accounting Document based on Invoice inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to the Financials Accounting deployment unit by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example it represents this operational business transaction in a standardized form for business transaction documents and contains the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

If the Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation is invoked it sends an Invoice Cancellation Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component . A Cancel Accounting Document operation receives the message . The operation cancels an existing accounting document based on cancellation data received from the Customer Invoice Processing process component . In some implementations the received data is converted into an accounting notification from which one or more reversal accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books. The operation uses the Maintain Accounting Document based on Invoice inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object .

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes a Purchase Order business object . The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time. The Purchase Order business object uses a Notify of Purchase Order to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Purchase Order operation . The operation notifies the Accounting process component that a purchase order has been created changed or canceled. The operation is included in a Sales and Purchasing Accounting Out interface .

If the Notify of Purchase Order operation is invoked the operation generates a Sales and Purchasing Accounting Notification message . The Sales and Purchasing Accounting Notification message is received in a Create Accounting Notification operation . The Create Accounting Notification operation creates an accounting notification based on order data received from the Purchase Order Processing process component . The operation is included in a Sales and Purchasing Accounting In interface .

The Create Accounting Notification operation uses a Maintain Sub Ledger Account based on Sales and Purchasing inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to the Financials Accounting deployment unit by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example it represents this operational business transaction in a standardized form for business transaction documents and contains the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

Interactions Between Process Components Outbound Delivery Processing and Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer 

As shown in the Outbound Delivery Processing process component includes an Outbound Delivery business object . The Outbound Delivery business object represents a composition of the goods that is provided for shipping by a vendor. The Outbound Delivery business object uses a Notify of Outbound Delivery for Output to Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer outbound process agent to invoke an Output Delivery Note operation . The operation prints a delivery note. The Output Delivery Note operation is included in a Delivery Note Out interface . The Output Delivery Note operation sends a Form Delivery Note Notification message to the Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer external process component .

As shown in a bank statement is created at a bank and a Bank Account Statement Collection Notification message is created. The Bank Account Statement Collection Notification message uses a Mapping Entity to transform the BAI ST file format message type to a to a Bank Account Statement Collection Notification message that can be received by a Create Bank Statement Collection operation .

The Create Bank Statement Collection operation is included in a Bank Statement Processing In interface . The Create Bank Statement Collection operation creates a collection of bank statements in the Payment Processing process component . The operation uses a Maintain Bank Statement inbound process agent to update a House Bank Statement business object . The House Bank Statement business object represents a legally binding notification from the house bank about the transactions within a specific time period a bank account with a defined starting and closing balance.

The Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component receives information from a Notify of Bank Account Statement Attachment communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

As shown in the Customer Quote Processing process component includes the Customer Quote business object . The Customer invoice business object represents an offer by a seller to a customer for the delivery of goods or services according to fixed terms. For example the offer is legally binding for the seller for a specific period of time.

A Synchronous Request Creditworthiness from Customer Quote to Due Item Processing outbound process agent is used to invoke a Request Creditworthiness operation . The operation verifies the data or value of a current document against the actual credit standing of a customer. The operation is included in a Credit Usage Out interface .

The Request Creditworthiness operation sends a Credit Worthiness Query message to the Due Item Processing process component . An optional Check Worthiness operation receives the message . The operation initiates the execution of a credit check. The operation is included in a Credit Usage In interface . The Check Worthiness operation uses a Check Creditworthiness Based on Trade Receivables Payables Register inbound process agent to update a Trade Receivables Payables Register business object . The business object represents the register of all trade receivables and payables of a company from or to its business partners.

The optional Check Creditworthiness operation sends a Credit Worthiness Response message to the Request Creditworthiness operation included in the Customer Quote Processing process component .

Interactions Between Process Components Customer Quote Processing and Financial Accounting Master Data Management 

As shown in the Customer Quote Processing process component includes a Customer Quote business object . The business object represents an offer by a seller to a customer for the delivery of goods or services according to fixed terms. For example the offer is legally binding for the seller for a specific period of time.

The Customer Quote business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Valuation from Customer Quote to Financial Accounting Master Data synchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Request Product Valuation operation . The operation is included in a Product and Resource Valuation Out interface . The Request Product Valuation operation requests a product valuation. The operation sends a Product and Resource Valuation Query message to the Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component . A Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource operation receives the message . The operation valuates one or more products or resources with internal valuation prices or internal cost rates. For example the product or resource is valuated as an individual object or in the context of a business transaction. The result of the valuation for a product or resources can be a price and an amount which cab be optional provided that a quantity was entered for the valuation. The operation is included in a Product and Resource Valuation In interface .

The Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource operation uses a Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource synchronous inbound process agent to update a Service Product Valuation Data business object a Resource Valuation Data business object or a Material Valuation Data business object . The Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource operation sends a Product and Resource Valuation Response message back to the Customer Quote Processing process component where it is received by the Request Product Valuation operation .

The Service Product Valuation Data business object represents data that references a service product or service product group for the valuation of business transactions and for cost estimates and cost accounting. For example it contains the internal cost rates for a service product or service product group. The Resource Valuation Data business object represents data that references a resource or resource group for the valuation of business transactions and for cost estimates and cost accounting. For example it contains the internal cost rates for a resource or resource group. The Material Valuation Data business object represents data that references a material or material group for valuating business transactions for cost estimates and for value based management of material inventories. For example it contains internal valuation prices for a material or material group.

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Processing at Business Partner and Payment Processing 

The Payment Processing at Business Partner external process component sends a Payment Advice Notification message to the Payment Processing process component . A Create Payment Advice operation receives the message . The operation included in an Incoming Payment Advicing In interface creates a payment advice sent from a business partner or house bank concerning future payment transactions. The operation uses a Maintain Payment Advice inbound process agent to update a Payment Advice business object . The Payment Advice business object represents an announcement of a payment transaction by a business partner to the company specifying payment reasons.

The Payment Processing process component receives information from a Processing at Tenant In communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

Interactions Between Process Components External Procurement Trigger and Response and Purchase Order Processing 

The External Procurement Trigger and Response process component includes a Planning View of Purchase Order business object . The business object represents a planning view of the materials date quantities delivery conditions parties and sources of supply of a purchase order that are relevant to planning.

The Planning View of Purchase Order business object uses a Notify of Purchase Order Delivery Values from Planning View of Purchase Order to Purchase Order Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Purchase Order Delivery Values operation . The operation is included in a Fulfillment Out interface . The Notify of Purchase Order Delivery Values operation notifies purchasing of the fulfillment of a purchase order. The operation uses a Purchase Order Delivery Values Notification message to notify the Purchase Order Processing process component of the fulfillment of a purchase order.

A Change Purchase Order based on Delivery Values operation receives the message . The operation uses a Change Purchase Order based on Delivery Values inbound process agent to update the Purchase Order business object . The Change Purchase Order based on Delivery Values operation updates a purchase order with data about the fulfillment of the purchase order. The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

As shown in the Production Trigger and Response process component includes a Production Requisition business object . The Production Requisition business object represents a requisition to production execution to produce a certain quantity of a specific material by a requested due date. The Production Requisition business object uses a Request Production From Production Requisition to Production outbound process agent to invoke a Request Production operation . The operation is included in a Producing Out interface . The Request Production operation requests the production of a certain quantity of a specific material by a requested due date. The Request Production operation sends a Production Request Request message to the Production process component .

As shown in a Maintain Production Request operation receives the message from the Production Trigger and Response process component . The operation is included in a Producing In interface . The Maintain Production Request operation creates updates or deletes a production request. The operation uses a Maintain Production Request inbound process agent to update a Production Request business object . The Production Request business object represents a requisition to production execution to produce a certain quantity of a specific material by a requested due date. In some implementations the requisition can also contain accepted and fulfillment data representing the response from production execution.

The Production Request business object uses a Confirm Production Request to Production Trigger and Response outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Production Request operation or a Notify Planning of Production Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation . Both operations and are included in a Producing Out interface . The Confirm Production Request operation confirms the receipt of a production request and its execution progress. The Notify Planning of Production Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation notifies the planning system of a reconciliation of a production request confirmation. The Confirm Production Request operation and the Notify Planning of Production Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation send a Production Request Confirmation message and a Production Request Confirmation Reconciliation Notification message respectively.

A Change Production Requisition Based On Production Request Confirmation operation and a Change Production Requisition On Production Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation receive the messages and respectively. Both operations and are included in a Producing In interface . The Change Production Requisition Based On Production Request Confirmation operation receives conformation of maintenance and execution of a production request. The Change Production Requisition On Production Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation receives reconciliation of a production request confirmation. The operations and use a Maintain Production Requisition Based On Production inbound process agent to update the Production Requisition business object .

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes a Payment Allocation business object . The Payment Allocation business object represents an assignment of a payment item to the payment reasons from which the payment item originated. The Payment Allocation business object uses a Request Clearing Maintenance from Payment Allocation to Due Item Processing outbound process agent to invoke either a Request Clearing operation to request the clearing of payments within the Due Item Processing process component or a Request Clearing Cancellation operation to cancel a previously sent clearing request from the Due Item Processing process component by reference. Both operations and are included in a Clearing Out interface . The Request Clearing operation sends a Clearing Request message to the Due Item Processing process component . The Request Clearing Cancellation operation sends a Clearing Cancellation Request message to the Due Item Processing process component .

As shown in the Due Item Processing process component includes a Create Clearing operation and a Cancel Clearing operation to receive the messages and respectively. Both operations and are included in a Clearing In interface . The Create Clearing operation creates a clearing for business partner initiated payments. The Cancel Clearing operation cancels a previously sent clearing request by reference.

The operations and use a Maintain Clearing inbound process agent to update a Tax Due Payment business object and a Due Payment business object . The Tax Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to tax payables and receivables. The Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation for trade receivables and payables.

The Tax Due Payment business object uses a Confirm Clearing from Tax Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Clearing operation . The Due Payment business object uses a Confirm Clearing from Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke the Confirm Clearing operation .

The Confirm Clearing operation sends a confirmation to the Payment Processing process component for a clearing request. As shown in the Confirm Clearing operation sends a Clearing Confirmation message to the Payment Processing process component .

A Change Payment Allocation Based On Clearing Request Confirmation operation receives the message . The Change Payment Allocation Based On Clearing Request Confirmation operation confirms the execution or rejection of a sent clearing request. The operation is included in a Clearing In interface . The operation uses a Change Payment Allocation Based On Clearing Request Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Payment Allocation business object .

As shown the Production process component includes a Production Lot business object and a Production Confirmation business object . The Production Lot business object represents a certain quantity of materials that is and has been produced as a group with reference to an order. For example the Production Lot business object collects all the actual information during the production process that is described by operations and activities. The Production Confirmation business object represents a record of confirmed logistic process changes which result from the execution of a production process at a specific time. The Production Lot business object uses a Notify of Production Lot to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Production Lot Status Change operation . The operation is included a Production Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Production Lot Status Change operation informs the Accounting process component about a status change of a production lot. The operation sends a Production Lot Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component .

As shown in a Create Accounting Notification operation receives the Production Lot Accounting Notification message . The a Create Accounting Notification operation is included in a Production Accounting In interface . The Create Accounting Notification operation creates an accounting notification based on production order data received from the Production process component . The operation uses a Maintain Production Ledger Account inbound process agent to update the Account Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to the Financials deployment unit by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example it represents this operational business transaction in a standardized form for business transaction documents and contains the data needed to valuate the business transaction. As shown in the Production Confirmation business object uses Notify of Production Progress from Production Confirmation to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Inventory Change And Activity Confirmation operation or a Notify of Inventory Change And Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation . Both operations and are included in an Inventory And Activity Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Inventory Change And Activity Confirmation operation notifies the Accounting process component about inventory changes e.g. for physical goods and activity confirmations and triggers a valuation of the relevant inventory changes and activities in financial accounting. The Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation notifies financial accounting about a cancellation of inventory changes and activity confirmations previously sent.

If the Notify of Inventory Change And Activity Confirmation operation is invoked an Inventory Change And Activity Confirmation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Inventory Change And Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation is invoked an Inventory Change And Activity Confirmation Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component .

As shown in the Accounting process component includes a Create Accounting Document operation and a Cancel Accounting Document operation to receive the Inventory Change And Activity Confirmation Accounting Notification message and the Inventory Change And Activity Confirmation Cancellation Accounting Notification message respectively. The Create Accounting Document operation creates an accounting document based on inventory data received from the Production process component . For example the received data is first converted into an accounting notification from which one or more accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books. The Cancel Accounting Document operation cancels an existing accounting document based on cancellation data received from the Production process component . For example the received data is converted into an accounting notification from which one or more reversal accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books. Both operations and are included in an Inventory and Activity Accounting In interface . The operations and use a Maintain Accounting Document based on Inventory and Activity inbound process agent to update the Account Notification business object .

As shown in the Sales Order Processing process component includes a Sales Order business object . The Sales Order business object represents an agreement between a seller and a customer concerning the sale and delivery of goods as well as any services that are associated with these processes on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price. The Sales Order business object uses a Synchronous Request Creditworthiness from Sales Order to Due Item Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Creditworthiness operation . The operation included in a Credit Usage Out interface checks whether the current sales order is covered by the current credit limit of the customer.

The Request Creditworthiness operation sends a Credit Worthiness Query message to the Due Item Processing process component . An optional Check Creditworthiness operation receives the message . The operation included in a Credit Usage In interface initiates the execution of a credit check.

The optional Check Creditworthiness operation sends a Credit Worthiness Response message to the Request Creditworthiness operation . The Check Creditworthiness operation uses a Check Creditworthiness Based on Trade Receivables Payables Register inbound process agent to update the Trade Receivables Payables Register business object . The business object represents a register of all trade receivables and payables of a company from or to its business partners.

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Order Processing at House Bank 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes a Bank Payment Order business object . The Bank Payment Order business object represents an order to a house bank to make a transfer or direct debit from a specified house bank account to fulfill a payment order.

The Bank Payment Order business object uses a Request File Based Payment Order from Bank Payment Order to House Bank outbound process agent to invoke a Request File based Payment Order operation . The operation instructs a house bank by file to make a bank transfer direct debit outgoing check or bill of exchange payable. The Request File based Payment Order operation is included a Payment Ordering Out interface .

The Request File based Payment Order operation sends a File Based Collective Payment Order Request message . The message uses a Mapping Entity to transform the file based message type to a Collective Payment Order Request message . The message is received by the Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component . The Payment Processing process component sends information to the Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component using a Payment Ordering In Attachment communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

As shown in the Logistics Execution Control process component includes the Logistics Execution Requisition business object . The business object represents a requisition to the Logistics Execution Control process component to control trigger and monitor the execution of a logistics process on a macro logistics level to fulfill an order. The business object uses a Request Fulfillment from Logistics Execution Requisition to Inbound Delivery Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Delivery Fulfillment operation . The operation included in a Fulfillment Out interface creates or updates an inbound or outbound delivery request.

The Request Delivery Fulfillment operation sends a Delivery Request Fulfillment Request message to the Inbound Delivery Processing process component . A Maintain Inbound Delivery Request operation receives the message . The operation is included in a Fulfillment In interface . The Maintain Inbound Delivery Request operation receives an inbound delivery fulfillment request.

The Maintain Inbound Delivery Request operation uses a Maintain Inbound Delivery Request inbound process agent to update an Inbound Delivery Request business object . The business object represents a request to a product recipient to receive a composition of goods.

The Inbound Delivery Request business object uses a Confirm Fulfillment of Inbound Delivery Request to Logistics Execution Control outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Fulfillment operation or an optional Notify Planning of Delivery Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation . The operations are included in a Fulfillment Out interface . The Confirm Fulfillment operation confirms the fulfillment of an outbound delivery request. The optional Notify Planning of Delivery Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation notifies the Logistics Execution Control process component of a delivery request fulfillment confirmation for reconciliation purposes.

The Confirm Fulfillment operation sends a Delivery Request Fulfillment Confirmation message to the Logistics Execution Control process component . A Change Logistics Execution Requisition based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation operation receives the message . The optional Notify Planning of Delivery Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation sends a Delivery Request Fulfillment Confirmation Reconciliation Notification message to the Logistics Execution Control process component . An optional Changed based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation Reconciliation Notification operation receives the message . The operations and are included in a Fulfillment In interface . The Change Logistics Execution Requisition based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation operation updates a logistics execution requisition with fulfillment confirmation data from an inbound or outbound delivery request and updates supply and demand matching with any planning relevant inventory changes. The optional Changed based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation Reconciliation Notification operation reconciles a logistics execution requisition with its related outbound or inbound delivery request.

The operations and use a Change Logistics Execution Requisition based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Logistics Execution Requisition business object .

As shown in the Sales Order Processing process component includes the Sales Order business object . The business object represents an agreement between a seller and a customer concerning the sale and delivery of goods as well as any services that are associated with these processes on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price.

The Sales Order business object uses a Notify of Sales Order to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Sales Order operation . The operation included in a Sales and Purchasing Accounting Out interface informs the Accounting process component when a sales order is created updated or changed. For example when a sales order also contains a service provision accounting is notified when the service provision is created or cancelled.

The Notify of Sales Order operation sends a Sales and Purchasing Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component . A Create Accounting Notification operation receives the message . The operation included in a Sales and Purchasing Accounting In interface creates an accounting notification based on order data received from the Sales Order Processing process component .

The Create Accounting Notification operation uses a Maintain Subledger Account based on Sales and Purchasing inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to the Financials deployment unit by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example it represents this operational business transaction in a standardized form for business transaction documents and contains the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes a Supplier Invoice business object . The business object represents a company s obligation to pay the supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier can issue a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and can refund the money to the company. For example for invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

The Supplier Invoice business object uses a Notify of Supplier Invoice to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice operation or a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in an Invoice Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Invoice operation sends a notification about accounting relevant data from a posted supplier invoice. The Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation sends a notification about accounting relevant data from a previously posted supplier invoice that is canceled.

The Notify of Invoice operation sends an Invoice Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component . The Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation sends an Invoice Cancellation Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component . A Create Accounting Document operation and a Cancel Accounting Document operation receive the messages and respectively. The operations and are included on an Invoice Accounting In interface .

The Create Accounting Document operation creates an accounting document based on invoice data received the Supplier Invoice Processing process component . For example the received data is first converted into an accounting notification from which one or more accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books. The Cancel Accounting Document operation cancels an existing accounting document based on cancellation data received from the Supplier Invoice Processing process component . For example the received data is converted into an accounting notification from which one or more reversal accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books.

The operations and use a Maintain Accounting Document based on Invoice inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to the Financials deployment unit by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example it represents this operational business transaction in a standardized form for business transaction documents and contains the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

As shown in the Goods Tag Processing process component includes a Goods Tag business object . The business object represents an electronic device a small piece or part or a label that is attached to a product or package and that contains selected information about this product or package. In some implementations its purpose is to present this information to a reader.

The Goods Tag business object uses a Notify of Goods Tag for Output outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Unspecified Content Package Tag operation a Notify of Uniform Content Package Tag operation or a Notify of Serialized Material Tag operation . The operations and are included in a Goods Tag Output Out interface . The Notify of Unspecified Content Package Tag operation sends a Form Unspecified Content Package Tag Notification message to request the output of goods tags of the type unspecified content package tag. The Notify of Uniform Content Package Tag operation sends a Form Uniform Content Package Tag Notification message to request the output of goods tags of the type uniform content package tag. The Notify of Serialized Material Tag operation sends a Form Serialized Material Tag Notification message to request the output of goods tags of the type serialized content package tag. 

As shown in the Inventory Processing process component includes the Goods and Activity Confirmation business object . The Goods and Activity Confirmation business object represents a record of confirmed inventory changes that occurred at a specific time.

The Goods and Activity Confirmation business object uses a Notify of Inventory Change from Goods and Activity to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation or a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in an Inventory and Activity Accounting Out interface . If the Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation is invoked an Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation is invoked an Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . The Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation notifies about inventory changes e.g. for physical goods and activity confirmations and triggers a valuation of the relevant inventory changes and activities. The Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation notifies about a cancellation of inventory changes and activity confirmations sent earlier.

A Create Accounting Document operation receives the Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Accounting Notification message . A Cancel Accounting Document operation receives the Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation Accounting Notification message . An Inventory and Activity Accounting In interface includes the Create Accounting Document operation and the Cancel Accounting Document operation . The Create Accounting Document operation creates an accounting document based on inventory data received from the Inventory Processing process component . For example the received data is first converted into an accounting notification from which one or more accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books. The Cancel Accounting Document operation cancels an existing accounting document based on cancellation data received from the Inventory Processing process component . For example the received data is converted into an accounting notification from which one or more reversal accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books.

The Create Accounting Document operation and the Cancel Accounting Document operation use a Maintain Accounting Document based on Inventory and Activity inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to the Financials deployment unit by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example it represents this operational business transaction in a standardized form for business transaction documents and contains the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

Interactions Between Process Components External Procurement Trigger and Response and Purchase Request Processing 

As shown in the External Procurement Trigger and Response process component includes a Purchase Requisition business object . The business object represents a requisition to purchasing for the external procurement of materials planned in supply and demand matching. For example the purchase requisition is derived from the procurement planning order and describes which materials are to be procured in what quantities and at what time.

The Purchase Requisition business object uses a Request Purchasing from Purchase Requisition to Purchase Request Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Purchasing operation to request the creation or updating of a purchase request for the procurement of products or services. The operation is included in a Purchasing Out interface . The operation sends a Purchase Request Request message to the Purchase Request Processing process component . A Maintain Purchase Request operation receives the message . The operation included in a Purchasing In interface creates or updates a purchase request.

The Maintain Purchase Request operation uses a Maintain Purchase Request inbound process agent to update a Purchase Request business object . The business object represents a request or instruction to the purchasing department to purchase specified goods or services in specified quantities at a specified price within a specified time.

The Purchase Request business object uses a Confirm Purchase Request outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Purchase Request operation . The operation included in a Purchasing Out interface confirms the creation change or cancellation of a purchase request to the requestor. The operation sends a Purchase Request Confirmation message to the External Procurement Trigger and Response process component . A Change Purchase Requisition based on Purchase Request operation receives the message and confirms to the requester the extent to which a purchase requisition has been fulfilled. The operation uses a Change Purchase Requisition based on Purchase Request inbound process agent to update the Purchase Requisition business object .

Interactions Between Process Components Outbound Delivery Processing and Customer Invoice Processing 

As shown in the Outbound Delivery Processing process component includes an Outbound Delivery business object . The Outbound Delivery business object represents a composition of the goods that is provided for shipping by a vendor. The Outbound Delivery business object uses a Request Invoicing from Outbound Delivery to Customer Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Invoicing operation . The operation sends a request for a customer invoice request. The Request Invoicing operation is included in a Request Invoicing Out interface . The Request Invoicing operation sends a Customer Invoice Request Request message to the Customer Invoice Processing process component .

The Customer Invoice Processing process component includes a Maintain Customer Invoice Request operation to receive the Customer Invoice Request Request message . The Maintain Customer Invoice Request operation creates updates or cancels a customer invoice request. The operation is included in a Request Invoicing In interface . The Maintain Customer Invoice Request operation uses a Maintain Customer Invoice Request inbound process agent to update a Customer Invoice Request business object . The Customer Invoice Request business object represents a request to create one or several customer invoices or to take account of the data for the underlying business document when creating a customer invoice.

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes the Purchase Order business object . The business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time. The business object uses a Notify of Purchase Order to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Purchase Order operation . The operation included in a Sales and Purchasing Accounting Out interface notifies the Accounting process component that a purchase order has been created changed or canceled. The operation sends a Sales and Purchasing Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component . A Create Accounting Notification operation receives the message . The operation included in a Sales and Purchasing Accounting In interface creates an accounting notification based on order data received from the Purchase Order Processing process component .

The Create Accounting Notification operation uses a Maintain Subledger Account based on Sales And Purchasing inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to the Financials deployment unit by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example it represents this operational business transaction in a standardized form for business transaction documents and contains the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes the Purchase Order business object . The business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time. The business object uses a Notify of Invoicing Due from Purchase Order to Supplier Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoicing Due operation . The operation included in an Invoice Verification Out interface notifies the Supplier Invoice Processing process component about a new changed or canceled purchase order. The operation sends an Invoicing Due Notification message which is received by a Maintain Invoice Request operation .

The Maintain Invoice Request operation included in an Invoice Verification In interface creates updates deletes or requests the cancellation of a supplier invoice request based on the invoicing relevant data that is transferred from a purchasing system. The operation uses a Maintain Supplier Invoice Request inbound process agent to update a Supplier Invoice Request business object . The business object represents a request to invoice verification advising that a supplier invoice for specified quantities and prices is expected and is to be created through evaluated receipt settlement.

The Supplier Invoice Request business object uses a Notify of Invoice Values from Supplier Invoice Processing to Purchase Order Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice Values operation . The operation included in an Invoice Verification Out interface sends a notification about the actual values and quantities of a supplier invoice that has been saved and contains a reference to a purchase order.

The Notify of Invoice Values operation sends a Purchase Order Invoice Values Notification message to the Purchase Order Processing process component . A Change Purchase Order based on Invoice Values operation receives the message . The operation included in an Invoice Verification In interface uses a Change Purchase Order based on Invoice Values inbound process agent to update the Purchase Order business object . The Change Purchase Order based on Invoice Values operation updates a purchase order based on invoice data.

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes the Purchase Order business object . The business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time. The business object uses a Request Purchase Order to Supplier outbound process agent to invoke a Request Purchase Order Creation operation a Request Purchase Order Change operation or a Request Purchase Order Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in an Ordering Out interface . The Request Purchase Order Creation operation sends a Purchase Order Request message to the Sales Order Processing process component . The Request Purchase Order Change operation sends a Purchase Order Change Request message to the Sales Order Processing process component . The Request Purchase Order Cancellation operation sends a Purchase Order Cancellation Request message to the Sales Order Processing process component . The Request Purchase Order Creation operation requests sales order processing at the supplier to process a new purchase order. The Request Purchase Order Change operation requests sales order processing at the supplier to change a previously sent purchase order. The Request Purchase Order Cancellation operation requests sales order processing at the supplier to cancel a previously sent purchase order.

As shown in the messages and are received by a Create Sales Order operation a Change Sales Order operation and a Cancel Sales Order operation respectively. The operations and use a Maintain Sales Order inbound process agent to update the Sales Order business object . The business object represents an agreement between a seller and a customer concerning the sale and delivery of goods as well as any services that are associated with these processes on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price. The Create Sales Order operation creates the sales order based on the purchase order. The Change Sales Order operation updates the sales order based on changes from the purchase order. The Cancel Sales Order operation cancel the sales order based on the cancellation of a purchase order from the customer.

The Sales Order business object uses a Confirm Sales Order to Customer outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Sales Order operation . The operation included in an Ordering Out interface sends a Purchase Order Confirmation message to the Purchase Order Processing process component . The Confirm Sales Order operation confirms changes in the sales order to the customer. A Create Purchase Order Confirmation operation included in an Ordering In interface receives the Purchase Order Confirmation message . The Create Purchase Order Confirmation operation creates a purchase order confirmation based on the supplier s response to a purchase order. The Create Purchase Order Confirmation operation uses a Create Purchase Order Confirmation inbound process agent to update a Purchase Order Confirmation business object . The business object represents a confirmation from a seller to deliver a specified quantity of goods or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

The Sales Order business object uses Request Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment from Sales Order to Customer Requirement outbound process agent to invoke a Request Product Customer Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment operation . The Request Product Customer Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment operation requests the reservation and fulfillment of a customer requirement. The Request Product Availability Information and Provisional Reservation operation the Register Product Customer Requirement Deletion Notification operation and the Request Product Customer Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment operation are included in a Fulfillment Out interface . The Request Product Availability Information and Provisional Reservation operation the Register Product Customer Requirement Deletion Notification operation and the Request Product Customer Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment operation send a Product Available To Promise Check Request message a Provisional Customer Requirement Delete Notification message and a Customer Requirement Fulfillment request message respectively to the Customer Requirement Processing process component .

As shown in the Customer Requirement Processing process component includes a Check Availability and Reserve operation a Delete Provisional Customer Requirement operation and a Maintain Customer Requirement operation in a Fulfillment In interface to receive the messages and respectively. The Check Availability and Reserve operation receives the Product Available To Promise Check Request . The operation checks and confirms the availability of a specific amount of materials. The Check Availability and Reserve operation sends a Product Available To Promise Check Confirmation message back to the Request Product Availability Information and Provisional Reservation operation .

As shown in the Check Availability and Reserve operation uses a Check Availability and Reserve synchronous inbound process agent to update the Customer Requirement business object . The Customer Requirement business object represents a requirement that is derived from a sales order quotation or service order and to which details on the anticipated availability date of materials required to fulfill the requirement may be added. For example it contains the quantities of materials required at specific dates as well as information about which materials will be available or delivered in which quantities at which dates.

The Delete Provisional Customer Requirement operation receives the Provisional Customer Requirement Delete Notification message . The Delete Provisional Customer Requirement operation deletes provisional customer requirements that have been created by the Check Availability and Reserve operation . The Maintain Customer Requirement operation receives the Customer Requirement Fulfillment Confirmation message . The Maintain Customer Requirement operation creates or updates a customer requirement. Operation and operation use a Maintain Customer Requirement inbound process agent to update the Customer Requirement business object . The Customer Requirement business object uses a Notify of Availability Update from Customer Requirement outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Availability Update operation and a Confirm Fulfillment of Customer Requirement outbound process agent to Invoke a Confirm Fulfillment operation . The Notify of Availability Update operation notifies about updated availability for requested materials. The Confirm Fulfillment operation confirms the partial or complete fulfillment of a customer requirement to the creator of the requirement. The operations and are included in a Fulfillment Out interface .

As shown in the Notify of Availability Update operation and the Confirm Fulfillment operation send a Product Available To Promise Update Notification message and a Customer Requirement Fulfillment Confirmation message respectively to the Sales Order Processing process component . A Fulfillment In interface includes a Change Sales Order based on Product Availability Update operation to receive the Product Available To Promise Update Notification message and a Change Sales Order based on Product Customer Requirement Fulfillment Confirmation operation to receive the Customer Requirement Fulfillment Confirmation message .

The Change Sales Order based on Product Availability Update operation updates the sales order with availability and reservation information based on changes in fulfillment planning. The Change Sales Order based on Product Customer Requirement Fulfillment Confirmation operation updates the sales order with information from fulfillment confirmation. The operations and use a Change Sales Order based on Customer Requirement inbound process agent to update the Sales Order business object .

As shown in the Purchase Request Processing process component includes a Purchase Request business object . The business object represents a request or instruction to the purchasing department to purchase specified goods or services in specified quantities at a specified price within a specified time. The business object uses a Request RFQ Execution from Purchase Request to RFQ Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request RFQ Execution operation . The operation included in a Request for Quote Out interface requests the creation of a request for quote to find sources of supply for a purchase request.

The Request for RFQ Execution operation sends an RFQ Execution Request message to the RFQ Processing process component . A Maintain RFQ Request operation receives the message . The operation included in a Request for Quote In interface creates an RFQ request based on business documents that trigger the bidding process purchase request purchasing contract . The operation uses a Maintain RFQ Request inbound process agent to update an RFQ Request business object . The business object represents a request to the purchasing department to prepare a request for quote.

The RFQ Request business object uses a Confirm RFQ Request outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm RFQ Request operation . The operation included in a Request for Quote Out interface confirms the creation of an RFQ request or the cancellation of RFQ request items.

The Confirm RFQ Request operation sends an RFQ Execution Confirmation message to the Purchase Request Processing process component . The message is received by a Change Purchase Request based on RFQ Execution operation . The operation included in a Request for Quote In interface creates or updates the purchase request based on the corresponding RFQ request. The operation uses a Change Purchase Request based on RFQ Execution inbound process agent to update the Purchase Request business object .

Interaction Between Process Components Sales Order Processing and Financial Accounting Master Data Management 

As shown in the Sales Order Processing process component includes a Sales Order business object . The business object represents an agreement between a seller and a customer concerning the sale and delivery of goods as well as any services that are associated with these processes on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price.

The Sales Order business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Valuation from Sales Order to Financial Accounting Master Data synchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Request Product Valuation operation . The operation included in a Product and Resource Valuation Out interface sends a Product and Resource Valuation Query message to the Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component .

A Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource operation receives the message . The operation included in a Product and Resource Valuation In interface valuates one or more products or resources with internal valuation prices or internal cost rates. For example the product or resource is valuated as an individual object or in the context of a business transaction. The result of the valuation for a product or resources is a price and an amount optional provided that a quantity was entered for the valuation.

The Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource operation sends a Product and Resource Valuation Response message back to the Sales Order Processing process component where is it received by the Request Product Valuation operation or the operation uses a Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource synchronous inbound process agent to update a Material Valuation Data business object a Service Product Valuation Data business object or a Resource Valuation Data business object . The Material Valuation Data business object represents data that references a material or material group for valuating business transactions for cost estimates and for value based management of material inventories. For example it contains internal valuation prices for a material or material group. The Service Product Valuation Data business object represents data that references a service product or service product group for the valuation of business transactions and for cost estimates and cost accounting. For example it contains the internal cost rates for a service product or service product group. The Resource Valuation Data business object represents data that references a resource or resource group for the valuation of business transactions and for cost estimates and cost accounting.

As shown in the Production process component includes a Production Task business object . The business object represents a task in production that a processor executes at a specific time at a predefined production step in a production process.

The Production Task business object uses a Request Production Task Execution for Output outbound process agent to invoke a Request Execution of Make Activity operation a Request Execution of Supply Activity operation or a Request Execution of Quality Check Activity operation . The operations and are included in a Production Task Output Out interface . The Request Execution of Make Activity operation requests the execution of a make activity or make activities by printing or sending them e.g. using e mail or SMS . The Request Execution of Supply Activity operation requests the execution of a supply activity or supply activities by printing or sending them e.g. using e mail or SMS . The Request Execution of Quality Check Activity can request the execution of a quality check activity or quality check activities by printing or sending them e.g. using e mail or SMS .

The Request Execution of Make Activity operation sends a Form Production Task Make Activity Execution Request message . The Request Execution of Supply Activity operation sends a Form Production Task Supply Activity Execution Request message . The Request Execution of Quality Check Activity sends a Form Production Task Quality Check Activity Execution Request message .

Interaction Between Process Components Purchase Order Processing and External Procurement Trigger and Response 

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes a Purchase Order business object . The business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time. The business object uses a Notify of Purchase Order to External Procurement Trigger and Response outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Purchase Order operation . The operation included in an Ordering Notification Out interface notifies the External Procurement Trigger and Response process component that a purchase order has been created changed or canceled. The operation sends a Purchase Order Notification message to the External Procurement Trigger and Response process component . A Maintain Planning View of Purchase Order operation receives the message .

The Maintain Planning View of Purchase Order operation included in a Ordering Notification In interface updates the planning view of purchase order data with information about new or changed purchase orders. The operation uses a Maintain Planning View of Purchase Order inbound process agent to update a Planning View of Purchase Order business object . The business object represents a planning view of the materials date quantities delivery conditions parties and sources of supply of a purchase order that are relevant to planning.

As shown in the Production process component includes a Production Order business object . The business object represents an order to produce a specific quantity of material within a predefined time. For example it contains all the information required for the actual execution of the production process.

The Production Order business object uses a Notify of Production Order for Output outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Production Order operation . The operation included in a Production Order Output Out interface creates a notification about a production order by printing or sending it e.g. using e mail or SMS . The operation sends a Form Production Order Notification message .

As shown in the Site Logistics Processing process component includes a Site Logistics Confirmation business object . The business object represents a record of confirmed logistic process changes which result from the execution of a site logistics process at a specific time. For example inventory changes plan adjustments resource utilizations and progress status changes.

The Site Logistics Confirmation business object uses a Notify Of Inventory Change From Site Logistics Confirmation To SDM Supply and Demand Matching outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Inventory Change operation . The operation included in an Inventory Changing Out interface sends a Logistics Confirmation Inventory Change Notification message to the Supply and Demand Matching process component . A Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Logistics Confirmation operation receives the message .

The Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Logistics Confirmation operation included in an Inventory Changing In interface updates inventory quantities in supply planning when unscheduled goods movements occur. The operation uses a Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Logistics Confirmation inbound process agent to update a Planning View of Inventory business object . The business object represents a view of a material stock aggregated at the level of the supply planning area or at the level of the supply planning area and product requirement specification.

Interactions Between Process Components Customer Invoice Processing and Balance of Foreign Payment Management 

As shown in the Customer Invoice Processing process component includes a Customer Invoice business object . The business object represents a binding statement of amounts receivable resulting for example from deliveries to a customer services performed for a customer adjustments to these receivables or credit memos to a customer.

The Customer Invoice business object uses a Notify of Customer Invoice to Balance of Foreign Payments Management outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice operation or a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation . The operations are included in a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification Out interface . The operation informs about invoice in order to track receivable from or payable to a non resident business partner. The operation sends a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification message to the Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component . The operation informs about cancellation of invoice in order to also cancel information about receivable from or payable to non resident business partner. The operation sends a Foreign Receivable Payable Cancellation Notification message to the Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component .

A Create Foreign Receivable Payable operation receives the message . The operation creates a receivable or payable from foreign trade. A Cancel Foreign Receivable Payable operation receives the message . The operation represents the notification about the cancellation of a receivable customer invoice related to a non resident buyer. The operations and are included in a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification In interface . The operations use a Maintain Foreign Receivable Payable inbound process agent to update a Foreign Receivable Payable business object . The business object represents a receivable from or a payable to a non resident business partner.

As shown in the Inventory Processing process component includes an Inventory business object . The business object represents the quantity of all the materials in a certain location including the material reservations at this location. For example the quantities of materials can be physically grouped using identified logistic units or logistic units.

The Inventory business object uses a Notify of Inventory Reconciliation from Inventory to Supply and Demand Matching outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Planning of Inventory Reconciliation operation . The operation included in an Inventory Reconciliation Out interface notifies about the reconciliation of aggregated inventory quantities. The operation sends a Planning View of Inventory Reconciliation Notification message to the Supply and Demand Matching process component . A Maintain Planning of Inventory based on Inventory Reconciliation operation receives the message . The operation included in an Inventory Reconciliation In interface maintains total inventory quantities in supply planning.

The Maintain Planning of Inventory based on Inventory Reconciliation operation uses a Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Inventory Reconciliation inbound process agent to update a Planning View of Inventory business object . The business object represents a view of a material stock aggregated at the level of the supply planning area or at the level of the supply planning area and product requirement specification.

As shown in the Inbound Delivery Processing process component includes a Confirmed Inbound Delivery business object . The business object represents a confirmation that a certain composition of goods has actually been received by the product recipient.

The Confirmed Inbound Delivery business object uses a Request Invoicing from Confirmed Inbound Delivery to Supplier Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoicing Due operation . The operation included in an Invoice Verification Out interface sends a request to create update or cancel a supplier invoice. The operation sends a Invoicing Due Notification message to the Supplier Invoice Processing process component . A Maintain Invoice Request operation receives the message . The operation included in a Invoice Verification In interface creates updates deletes or requests the cancellation of a supplier invoice request based on the invoicing relevant data that is transferred from a purchasing system.

The Maintain Invoice Request operation uses a Maintain Supplier Invoice Request inbound process agent to update a Supplier Invoice Request business object . The business object represents a request to invoice verification advising that a supplier invoice for specified quantities and prices is expected and is to be created through evaluated receipt settlement.

As shown in the Customer Invoice Processing process component includes a Customer Invoice business object . The business object represents a binding statement of amounts receivable resulting for example from deliveries to a customer services performed for a customer adjustments to these receivables or credit memos to a customer.

The Customer Invoice business object uses a Notify Customer of Customer Invoice outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice operation . The operation included in an Invoicing Out interface informs the recipient of the customer invoice about invoicing. The operation sends an Invoice Request message to the Supplier Invoice Processing process component . A Create Invoice operation receives the message . The operation included in an Invoicing In interface creates a supplier invoice that corresponds to a customer invoice that contains claims or liabilities for delivered goods or rendered services.

The Create Invoice operation uses a Create Supplier Invoice based on Invoice Request inbound process agent to update a Supplier Invoice business object . The business object represents A company s obligation to pay the supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier usually issues a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and refunds the money to the company.

Interactions Between Process Components Supplier Invoice Processing and Balance of Foreign Payment Management 

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes a Supplier Invoice business object . The business object represents a company s obligation to pay the supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier usually issues a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and refunds the money to the company. For invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

The Supplier Invoice business object uses a Notify of Supplier Invoice to Balance of Foreign Payments Management outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice operation or a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification Out interface . The operation sends a notification about a posted supplier invoice. The operation sends a notification about a previously posted supplier invoice that is canceled.

The Notify of Invoice operation sends a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification message and the Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation sends a Foreign Receivable Payable Cancellation Notification message to the Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component respectively. A Create Foreign Receivable Payable operation receives the message and A Cancel Foreign Receivable Payable operation receives the message . The operations and are included in a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification In interface .

The Create Foreign Receivable Payable operation creates a receivable or payable from foreign trade. The Cancel Foreign Receivable Payable operation represents the notification about the cancellation of a receivable customer invoice related to a non resident buyer. The operations and use a Maintain Foreign Receivable Payable inbound process agent to update a Foreign Receivable Payable business object . The business object represents a receivable from or a payable to a non resident business partner.

As shown in the RFQ Processing process component includes a Supplier Quote business object . The business object represents a response to a request for quote in which a bidder offers to sell goods and services to a buyer according to the requested criteria.

The Supplier Quote business object uses a Request Purchase Order from Supplier Quote to Purchase Order Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Purchase Order from Winning Quote operation . The operation included in a Quote Award Notification Out interface requests the creation of a purchase order based on a winning quote. The operation sends a Supplier Quote Award Notification message to the Purchase Order Processing process component . A Create Purchase Order based on Winning Quote operation receives the message . The operation included in a Quote Award Notification In interface creates a purchase order based on a winning quote.

The Create Purchase Order based on Winning Quote operation uses a Maintain Purchase Order based on Winning Quote inbound process agent to update a Purchase Order business object . The business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

Interactions Between Process Components External Product Requirement Specification Processing and Product Requirement Specification Processing 

As shown in the External Product Requirement Specification Processing external process component sends a Product Requirement Specification Create Request message to the Product Requirement Specification Processing process component . A Create operation receives the message . The operation included in a Product Requirement Specification Maintenance In interface creates a new product requirement specification. The operation uses a Maintain Product Requirement Specification inbound process agent to update a Product Requirement Specification business object . The business object represents a collection of requirements for a product used in a specific business context e.g. in a prototype development project or sales order . The Product Requirement Specification business object may contain the corresponding specifications for fulfilling these requirements.

Interactions Between Process Components Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier and Supplier Invoice Processing 

As shown in the Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component receives information from a Processing at Business Partner Out communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party. The Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier external process component sends an Invoice Request message to the Supplier Invoice Processing process component . A Create Invoice operation receives the message. The operation included in an Invoicing In interface creates a supplier invoice that corresponds to a customer invoice that contains claims or liabilities for delivered goods or rendered services.

The Create Invoice operation uses a Create Supplier Invoice based on Invoice Request inbound process agent to update a Supplier Invoice business object . The business object represents a company s obligation to pay the supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier usually issues a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and refunds the money to the company.

The Supplier Invoice Processing process component receives information using a Processing at Tenant In communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

As shown in the Price Engine process component includes a Price and Tax Calculation business object and a Tax Calculation business object . The Prices and Tax Calculation business object represents the summary of the determined price and tax components for a business case. The business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Tax Calc from Price and Tax Calc to External Tax Calc synchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Request Product Tax Calculation operation .

The Tax Calculation business object represents the summarization of the determined and calculated tax elements of a business case. The business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Tax Calc from Tax Calc to External Tax Calc synchronous outbound process agent to update the operation . The operation is included in an External Tax Calculation Out interface . The interface sends information to the External Tax Calculation external process component using a Product at Tenant Out WS communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Request Product Tax Calculation operation requests product tax calculation from an external tax calculation system. The operation sends an External Product Tax Calculation Request message to the External Tax Calculation external process component . The External Tax Calculation external process component sends an External Product Tax Calculation Confirmation message back to the Price Engine process component where it is received by the operation .

Interactions Between Process Components Supplier Invoice Processing and Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier 

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes a Supplier Invoice business object . The business object represents a company s obligation to pay the supplier for delivered goods and services. If the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier usually issues a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and refunds the money to the company. For invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

The Supplier Invoice business object uses a Request ERS Invoice to Supplier outbound process agent to invoke a Request ERS Invoice operation . The operation included in an ERS Invoicing Out interface requests the creation of a customer invoice based on the data from an invoice created by evaluated receipt settlement. The Supplier Invoice Processing process component sends information to the Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier external process component using a Processing at Tenant Out communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Request ERS Invoice operation sends an Invoice Request message to the Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier external process component . The operation also sends a Form Invoice Request message to the Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component . A Create Customer Invoice operation receives the message . The operation included in an ERS Invoicing In interface creates a customer invoice based on the data from an invoice created by evaluated receipt settlement.

The Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier external process component receives information from the Supplier Invoice Processing process component using a Processing at Business Partner In communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

Interactions Between Process Components Freight Documents Processing and Transportation Management at Freight Forwarder 

As shown in the Freight Documents Processing process component includes a Freight List business object . The business object represents a document detailing a list of shipped goods that are to be transported the business partners and the mode of transportation.

The Freight List business object uses a Notify of Freight List for Output To Transportation Management at Freight Forwarder outbound process agent to invoke an Output Waybill operation . The operation included in a Waybill Notification Out interface prints a waybill. The operation sends a Form Waybill Notification message to the Transportation Management at Freight Forwarder external process component .

Interactions Between Process Components Supplier Invoice Processing and Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor 

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes a Supplier Invoice Verification Exception business object . The business object represents a group of related issues arising during a supplier invoice verification process. In some implementations the issues causing the exception are bundled according to certain business criteria. A complex follow up clarification process is used to resolve the issues.

The Supplier Invoice Verification Exception business object uses a Request Resolution from Supplier Invoice Verification Exception to Processor outbound process agent to invoke a Request Exception Resolution operation . The operation included in an Exception Resolution Out interface requests the clarification of a supplier invoice verification exception from an external party.

The Request Exception Resolution operation sends an Interactive Form Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution Request message to the Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor external process component .

The Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor external process component sends information to the Supplier Invoice Processing process component using a Processing at Business Partner Out communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor external process component sends an Interactive Form Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution Confirmation message to the Supplier Invoice Processing process component . The message uses a mapping entity to transform the message into a Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution Confirmation message . An Update Supplier Invoice Verification operation receives the message . The operation included in an Exception Resolution In interface updates a supplier invoice verification exception based on the changes made by an external party.

The Update Supplier Invoice Verification operation uses an Update Supplier Invoice Verification Exception based on Resolution Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Supplier Invoice Verification Exception business object .

The Supplier Invoice Processing process component receives information from the Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor external process component using a Product at Tenant In communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor process component receives information from a Processing at Business Partner Out communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

As shown in the Sales Order Processing process component includes a Sales Order business object . The business object represents an agreement between a seller and a customer concerning the sale and delivery of goods as well as any services that are associated with these processes on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price. The business object uses a Request Invoicing from Sales Order to Customer Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Invoicing operation . The operation included in a Request Invoicing Out interface requests the invoicing of sales order point in time and dependence on other invoicing information such as delivery will be decided by invoicing process. The operation sends a Customer Invoice Request Request message to the Customer Invoice Processing process component . A Maintain Customer Invoice Request operation receives the message . The operation included in a Request Invoicing In interface creates updates or cancels a customer invoice request. The operation uses a Maintain Customer Invoice Request inbound process agent to update a Customer Invoice Request business object . The business object represents a request to create one or several customer invoices or to take account of the data for the underlying business document when creating a customer invoice.

As shown in the Customer Invoice Processing process component includes the Customer Invoice business object . The business object represents a binding statement of amounts receivable resulting for example from deliveries to a customer services performed for a customer adjustments to these receivables or credit memos to a customer. The business object uses a Confirm Customer Invoice to Sales Order Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Invoicing operation . The operation included in a Request Invoicing Out interface confirms that invoicing has taken place. The operation sends a Customer Invoice Issued Confirmation message to the Sales Order Processing process component .

A Change Sales Order based on Customer Invoice operation receives the message . The operation included in a Request Invoicing In interface updates the sales order based on changes from the customer invoice. The operation uses a Change Sales Order based on Customer Invoice outbound process agent to update the Sales Order business object .

Interactions Between Process Components RFQ Processing and Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier 

As shown in the RFQ Processing process component includes a Request for Quote business object . The business object represents a request from a buyer to a bidder to submit a quote for goods or services according to specified criteria. The business object uses a Request Quote Maintenance from Request for Quote to Supplier outbound process agent to invoke a Request Quote Creation operation . The operation included in a Request Quote Processing Out interface requests the revision of a quote that was received for example by phone fax or e mail. The operation sends an Interactive Form RFQ Request message to the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier external process component .

The Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier external process component sends an Interactive Form RFQ Request message and an Interactive Form Quote Revision Request message to the RFQ Processing process component . The messages and use mapping entities and respectively to transform the messages and into a Quote Notification message . A Maintain Supplier Quote operation receives the message .

The RFQ Processing process component receives information from the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier external process component using a Processing at Tenant In communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Maintain Supplier Quote operation included in a Quote Processing In interface creates or updates a supplier quote based on the information contained in quotes received for example by phone fax or e mail. The operation uses a Maintain Supplier Quote inbound process agent to update a Supplier Quote business object . The business object represents a response to a request for quote in which a bidder offers to sell goods and services to a buyer according to the requested criteria.

The Supplier Quote business object uses a Notify of Supplier Quote to Supplier outbound process agent to invoke a Request Quote Revision operation . The operation included in a Quote Processing Out interface requests the revision of a quote that was received for example by phone fax or e mail. The operation sends an Interactive Form Quote Revision Request message to the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier external process component .

The Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier external process component sends information to the RFQ Processing process component using a Processing at Business Partner Out communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Authorization and Settlement Processing at Clearing House 

As shown in the Payment Authorization process component includes a Payment Card Payment Authorization business object . The business object represents an authorization for a payment made using a payment card. It may contain payment information including a description of the goods services purchased the authorization request and the result of the authorization request based on the response from the clearing house.

The Payment Card Payment Authorization business object uses a Request Payment Card Payment Authorization outbound process agent to invoke a Request Payment Authorization operation . The operation included in a Payment Authorization Requesting Out interface requests a clearing house for authorization of a payment made using a payment card. The operation sends a Payment Card Payment Authorization Request message to the Settlement Processing at Clearing House external process component

The Settlement Processing at Clearing House external process component receives information using a Processing at Business Partner In communication channel template and a Processing at Business Partner In SOAP communication channel template to send information to the Payment Authorization process component . The communication channel templates and can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Settlement Processing at Clearing House external process component sends a Payment Card Payment Authorization Confirmation message to the Payment Authorization process component

The Payment Authorization process component uses a Processing at Tenant Out communication channel template to send information to the Settlement Processing at Clearing House external process component . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

Interactions Between Process Components Purchase Order Processing and Sales Order Processing at Supplier 

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes the Purchase Order business object . The business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time. The business object uses a Request Purchase Order to Supplier outbound process agent to invoke a Purchase Order Creation operation and a Request Purchase Order Change operation . The operation requests sales order processing at supplier to process a new purchase order. The operation requests sales order processing at supplier to change a previously sent purchase order. The operations and both included in an Ordering Out interface send an Interactive Form Purchase Order Request message to the Sales Order Processing at Supplier external process component .

The Sales Order Processing at Supplier external process component sends data to the Purchase Order Processing process component using a Processing at Business Partner Out communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Sales Order Processing at Supplier external process component sends an Interactive Form Purchase Order Request message to the Purchase Order Processing process component . The message uses a mapping entity to transform the message to a Purchase Order Confirmation message .

The Purchase Order Processing process component receives information from the Sales Order Processing at Supplier external process component using a Processing at Tenant In communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party

A Create Purchase Order Confirmation operation receives the Purchase Order Confirmation message . The operation included in an Ordering In interface creates a purchase order confirmation based on the supplier s response to a purchase order.

The Create Purchase Order Confirmation operation uses a Create Purchase Order Confirmation inbound process agent to update a Purchase Order Confirmation business object . The business object represents a confirmation from a seller to deliver a specified quantity of goods or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

As shown in the Customer Quote Processing process component includes a Customer Quote business object . The business object represents an offer by a seller to a customer for the delivery of goods or services according to fixed terms. The offer is generally legally binding for the seller for a specific period of time.

The Customer Quote business object uses a Notify Customer Quote to Customer outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Customer Quote operation . The operation included in a Quote Processing Out interface notifies the customer about the customer quote. The operation sends a Form Quote Notification message to the RFQ Processing at Customer process component

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Processing at Business Partner 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes a Payment Order business object . The business object represents an order within a company to initiate a payment transaction to or from a business partner at a specified time. In some implementations a payment order can be a collective order that contains several individual orders. The business object uses a Notify of Payment from Payment Order to Business Partner outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Payment operation . The operation included in an Outgoing Payment Advising Out interface sends data that allows the assignment of payments to receivables or payables at the business partner. The operation sends a Payment Advice Notification message or a Form Payment Advice Notification message to the Payment Processing at Business Partner external process component .

The Payment Processing process component sends information to the Payment Processing at Business Partner external process component using a Processing at Tenant Out communication channel template . The Payment Processing at Business Partner external process component receives the information using a Processing at Business Partner In communication channel template . The communication channel templates and can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Processing at Business Partner 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes a Bill of Exchange Payable business object . The business object represents a bill of exchange for an outgoing payment. The Bill of Exchange Payable business object uses an Issue Bill Of Exchange Receivable to Business Partner outbound process agent to invoke an Issue Bill of Exchange operation . The operation included in a Bill Of Exchange Receivable Issuing Output Out interface requests the issuing of a bill of exchange. The operation sends a Form Bill of Exchange Payable Issue Request message to the Payment Processing at Business Partner process component .

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Processing at Business Partner 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes an Outgoing Check business object . The Outgoing Check business object represents a check issued by a company payable to a business partner to fulfill a payment order. The business object uses an Issue Check From Outgoing Check to Business Partner outgoing process agent to invoke an Issue Check operation . The operation included in a Check Issuing Output Out interface requests the issuing of a check by creating the print form. The operation sends a Form Check Issue Request message to the Payment Processing at Business Partner external process component .

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Processing at Business Partner 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes a Bill of Exchange Receivable business object . The business object represents a bill of exchange for an outgoing payment. The business object uses an Issue Bill Of Exchange Payable to Business Partner outbound processing agent to invoke a Notify of Customer Quote operation . The operation included in a Bill of Exchange Receivable Issuing Output Out interface requests the issuing of a bill of exchange. The operation sends a Form Bill of Exchange Receivable Issue Request message to the Payment Processing at Business Partner external process component .

Interactions Between Process Components Outbound Delivery Processing at Supplier and Inbound Delivery Processing 

As shown in the Outbound Delivery Processing at Supplier external process component sends information to the Inbound Delivery Processing process component using a Processing at Business Partner Out communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party. The process component sends a Delivery Dispatch Advice Notification message to the Inbound Delivery Processing process component .

The Inbound Delivery Processing process component receives information from the Outbound Delivery Processing at Supplier external process component using a Processing at Tenant In communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

A Maintain Inbound Delivery operation receives the message . The operation included in a Delivery Notification In interface receives a delivery dispatch advice notification from supplier. The operation uses a Maintain Inbound Delivery inbound process agent to update an Inbound Delivery business object . The business object represents composition of the goods that is received by a product recipient.

Interactions Between Process Components Outbound Delivery Processing and Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer 

As shown in the Outbound Delivery Processing process component includes the Outbound Delivery business object . The business object represents a composition of the goods that is provided for shipping by a vendor. The business object uses a Notify of Outbound Delivery to Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Outbound Delivery operation . The operation included in a Delivery Notification Out interface sends a delivery dispatch advice notification message to the Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component .

The Outbound Delivery Processing process component sends information to the Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer external process component using a Processing at Tenant Out communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Notify of Outbound Delivery operation sends a Form Delivery Dispatch Advice Notification message or a Delivery Dispatch Advice Notification message to the Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer external process component .

The Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer external process component receives information from the Outbound Delivery Processing process component using a Processing at Business Partner In communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The subject matter described in this specification and all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structural means disclosed in this specification and structural equivalents thereof or in combinations of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more computer programs tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program also known as a program software software application or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. a data server a middleware component e.g. an application server or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described herein or any combination of such back end middleware and front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the present disclosure or of what may be claimed but rather as an exemplification of preferred embodiments of the present disclosure. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

The subject matter has been described in terms of particular variations but other variations can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

