---

title: System and method for exposure management
abstract: A system, method, and computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon to implement a method for risk exposure management allowing an exposure record to influence one or more risk exposures. In an embodiment, an exposure record is received, at least one data element of the received exposure record being mapped to one or more subexposures. At least one of the one or more subexposures are mapped to one of one or more exposure positions, wherein each exposure position corresponds to exactly one of the one or more risk exposures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08332298&OS=08332298&RS=08332298
owner: SAP AG
number: 08332298
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20080827
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 073 027 filed Jun. 16 2008 entitled Method and System for Exposure Management which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document may contain material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyrights whatsoever.

Business entities e.g. banks enter into a large number of transactions in the ordinary course of their operations. Some of these transactions carry financial risks such as currency or foreign exchange FX risks commodity price risks interest rate risks stock price risks and counterparty risks to name a few. For example individual loans carry the risk of debtor default currency exchange rate fluctuations or changing interest rates for variable rate loans or imminently mature loans whose principal likely will be reinvested at a new interest rate . Typically the business entities internal policies or banking regulations of governing regulatory bodies e.g. the International Accounting Standards Board IASB which has promulgated the International Accounting Standard IAS 39 or the Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB which has promulgated the Financial Accounting Statement FAS 133 require at least in some instances that the business entities own instruments typically derivatives such as options whose behavior counterbalances risks presented by the transactions. This is called hedging. 

Risk exposures presented by a first typically numerically large set of instruments are counterbalanced by performance of a second typically much smaller set of instruments called hedging instruments herein such that when risk rises with respect to the instruments that present the risk exposures risk falls in the hedging instruments. For example a set of instruments are grouped and treated as a single exposure that is to be hedged. One or more hedging instruments counterbalance the exposure group. The exposures or exposure groups and their corresponding hedging instruments are grouped into corresponding hedging relationships. A hedging relationship associates one or more particular hedging instruments with a particular exposure or exposure group. Accordingly use of hedging relationships aids in management of risk exposures and corresponding hedging instruments and facilitates compliance with hedging policies or regulations.

Hedging policies or regulations often require that certain exposures be hedged separately for example by different hedging instruments and or require or allow for grouping of certain exposures into a single group to be hedged by a common hedging instrument or common group of hedging instruments. For example a business entity often includes numerous departments and or is often a parent company that has multiple subsidiaries. It is often the case that each or some of the departments and or subsidiaries individually enter into transactions that create an exposure to risk that is required to be offset by hedging instruments. In some instances it is left to a central treasury department of the business entity and or to the parent company to acquire hedging instruments to offset the risk created by transactions of the individual departments and or subsidiaries. Hedging policies or regulations may require that the central treasury department and or parent company separately hedge against risk of exposures of the individual or certain of the individual departments or subsidiaries.

As another example an automobile manufacture may wish to hedge against commodity price risks. The manufacturer may for example buy raw materials e.g. steel and brass with which it builds the products e.g. cars it sells. The manufacturer may extract from its business plan the amount of each raw material needed in a given month or quarter. Since those prices however may fluctuate the manufacturer may wish to hedge against the commodity raw material price risk. Commodities price risk management may also apply for example when buying or selling futures contracts that is contracts to buy specific quantities of a good at a specific price for future delivery at a specific time and place.

Businesses may also wish to split risks into their component parts. For example if brass consisted of 60 copper and 40 zinc then the price of brass could fluctuate with either the price of copper or the price of zinc. Thus a car manufacturer may wish to independently hedge against the commodity pricing risks of brass copper or zinc. Similarly the price of a mutual fund may depend on the price of its component stocks. Thus a broker may wish to split mutual fund risks into manageable and tradable entities.

Moreover different types of risk may overlap. For example a car manufacturer in Germany who purchases brass from a supplier in the United States may wish to hedge against both the fluctuating price of brass commodities price risk and the fluctuating currency exchange rate FX risk . Thus the manufacturer may wish to segregate the commodities price risk and the FX risk to determine appropriate hedging instruments. Again if the brass were composed of 60 copper and 40 zinc the manufacturer may wish to further segregate the risks to hedge against each component risk.

A business may also wish to manage the life cycles of risks for example the cycle of transforming raw materials into income. This cycle may begin for example with a plan to buy raw materials e.g. brass and steel transform the raw materials into products e.g. cars and sell the resulting products. Based on this business plan the business may secure firm commitments from sellers to provide the raw materials. As the raw materials arrive from the sellers and are paid for the business s assets and liabilities vary accordingly. As the end products are sold income is generated offsetting the liabilities.

Available computer applications aid in the organization and management of a business entity s risk exposures hedging instruments and hedging relationships and generate hedge accounting data e.g. indicating to what extent the risk of the exposure or exposure group of the hedging relationship is offset by the hedging instrument s of the hedging relationship. However such hedging systems do not provide for automatic grouping of exposures. Further such risk management systems may have limited capacity and thus not be capable of storing many thousands of entries. In some situations the central treasury department and or parent company and the other departments non central treasury departments and or the subsidiaries do not share the same system. Instead non central treasury departments and or subsidiaries keep track of their individual transactions via separate systems. For the central treasury department and or the parent company to manage the exposures of the individual transactions and to determine the hedging instruments that must be acquired by using the hedging systems the data regarding the individual transactions that is already entered into the separate systems of the non central treasury departments and or subsidiary companies must be manually entered into the hedging system of the central treasury department and or parent company.

Hedging systems also provide for associating hedging instruments with an exposure or exposure group via a hedging relationship data object but in the past have required manual entry of data to associate the hedging instruments with the exposure or exposure group.

Thus a fully integrated solution capable of managing many thousands of entries throughout the product life cycle is required. As production cycles shorten the need for integration becomes even more important and useful.

In embodiments of the present invention an exposure management solution is provided which does at least one of the following separates exposures into several risks handles exposure positions and the like calculates key risk figures e.g. value at risk manages risk life cycles and or transforms risk factors. Transforming risk factors may involve e.g. transforming different qualities of a commodity decomposing an alloy into its original metals or decomposing a mutual fund into its individual stocks.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to an exposure management solution which may handle at least one of handling risks other than foreign exchange risks separating exposures into several risks handling exposure positions or the like calculating key risk figures managing risk life cycles and or transforming risk factors.

Embodiments of the present invention enable a customer to handle and hedge different kinds of risks for example foreign exchange FX risks and commodity price risks. The tool is flexible and may be adapted easily to existing and or future customer systems such as customer planning and production systems. In example embodiments the tool provides seamless integration into existing hedge accounting solutions in compliance with e.g. International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 39 or Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB Statement No. 133. In an embodiment the tool provides seamless integration into the analytical components of the Treasury and Risk Management which makes both internal operational Risk Management and external Risk Reporting e.g. according to IFRS 7 more efficient and accessible.

For purposes of illustration the below example embodiments of the present invention largely concern commodity price risk and foreign exchange risk. However the embodiments may be used for other purposes as would be evident to one of skill in the art. For example embodiments of the present invention may involve all kinds of risks such as financial risks including foreign exchange risk interest rate risk commodity price risk stock price risk and counterparty risk.

Whereas available systems provide only a 1 to 1 relationship between a raw exposure and exposure position example embodiments of the present invention can post a raw exposure to many exposure positions so that a single raw exposure may influence multiple exposure positions . In this way each exposure position reflects exactly one risk and each exposure position risk may be hedged or analyzed independently. For example an exposure position may be mapped directly to a hedged item in hedge management for which a hedge relationship is then created. Thus allowing complex mappings from raw exposure to exposure position enables 1 to 1 mapping of exposure positions to hedged items . As another example an exposure position may be mapped directly 1 1 with a risk object in market risk analyzer . This allows the market risk analyzer to perform essential computations such as value at risk for each risk exposure position .

Additionally in example embodiments the user can view which and how raw exposures contribute to each exposure position . In an embodiment the user can view the history of each exposure position such as how the risk increased or decreased throughout a product s life cycle.

In example embodiments the source systems includes a sales and distribution SD module a global trade management GTM system and or other industry specific source solutions and or the user enters a replica of a sales order transaction in manual mode MM . In an embodiment the inputs are taken from a sales and distribution system.

In example embodiments the raw exposure header and one or more line items store details about a sales or purchase order. For example a single sale and or purchase order is represented by a single raw exposure header . But for example since multiple items are transacted in a single sale or purchase order each transaction component can be stored in a separate raw exposure line item or line item associated with the raw exposure header . In this way each order need be entered only once.

In example embodiments a raw exposure header includes common fields such as external document number document type sales order SO purchase order PO global trade management type GTM etc. company code etc.

In example embodiments raw exposure line items include the actual items sold which should be analyzed for exposures. In an embodiment each line item stores an item sold and can have at least one the following fields a the original Material ID specified in e.g. the sales or purchase order b the Commodity ID as described below c commodity related fields such as quantity unit of measure etc. d sales order fields such as amount currency etc. e due date and f profit center.

As an example a car manufacturer may purchase both brass and steel from the same supplier in a single purchase order. In this example information about the purchase order such as external document number SO document type company code etc. are stored in raw exposure header . Information about brass item commodity such as the material ID the commodity ID the quantity and unit of measure the price the due date and or the profit center are stored in line item . Similar information about the steel commodity may be stored in line item . Thus the source system needs to transmit each order only once and the system appropriately separates each order into its components.

In example embodiments maintaining a Commodity ID separate from the Material ID may have at least one of the following 1 the user may customize the system e.g. implement a BADI to create a commodity risk even for line items with no Commodity ID 2 the Material ID may be different for the same commodity for example it may depend on the lot or delivery size and 3 the customer may group commodities into a single category by using a Commodity ID for the category.

In example embodiments the user maintains each commodity ID and component thereof in a Commodity Master Table even if a commodity or component is not traded in the exchange. For example if the commodity is brass wire the customer may maintain not only brass wire as a commodity but also maintain the component percentages e.g. 60 copper and 40 zinc. Each component e.g. copper and zinc may also be maintained as a commodity in the Commodity Master Table. In an embodiment the tool features a default Business Add Ins BADI implementation with a simple screen to perform this maintenance. However in an embodiment a BADI is not required the customer may also modify splits at will dynamically and or as matters progress.

In an embodiment the customer maintains a commodity group as a commodity. For example a customer may purchase both brass wire and steel wire as raw materials. In this example the user may maintain a wire commodity group that includes both brass wire and steel wire. The user then allocates risk based on for example the ratio of brass wire to steel wire that the customer purchases.

In example embodiments the split engine generates sub raw exposures or sub exposures from the line items based on user customizations. For example the user specifies how each line item is decomposed into its various components. The user can also for example assign percentage compositions where appropriate.

In an embodiment the conversion of line item to corresponding sub raw exposure s depends on the setting done at the exposure activity type maintenance. For example in the available SAP ERP system this may be executed at the IMG Implementation Guide for R 3 Customizing level.

In example embodiments with respect to FX risks if the currency of a line item is different from the currency of the company code target currency then the split engine automatically generates a foreign exchange sub raw exposure .

As an example a car manufacturer in Germany purchases brass from a supplier in the United States. In this example information about the brass item including its price in USD may be stored in line item . Recognizing that the currency USD of the line item is different from the target currency E the split engine automatically generates FX sub raw exposure

In example embodiments with respect to commodity risks line item includes a commodity ID. The commodity ID can be populated by for example line item population from the source system via BAPI Business Application Programming Interface see also and or also manual entry by the user. In example embodiments population of the commodity ID field enables system handling of commodity risks for that line item if for example the commodity ID is not specified then the system does not consider commodity risk.

In example embodiments if the Commodity ID contains a valid ID maintained in the Treasury but no split is maintained then the split engine creates one sub raw exposure at 100 for that commodity ID. In an embodiment if the user maintains a split percentage then the split engine creates one or more sub raw exposures each with a quantity corresponding to its percentage. In example embodiments sub raw exposure creation depends on the exposure activity type settings.

Returning to the car manufacturer example suppose the user maintained brass copper and zinc in the Commodity Master Table wherein brass was specified to comprise 60 copper and 40 zinc. In an embodiment if line item stored information about brass purchased from a supplier and if the commodity ID field contained the valid ID for brass the split engine automatically generates commodity sub raw exposure representing the commodity risk for copper and there allocate 60 of the quantity specified in line item brass . Similarly the split engine may automatically generate commodity sub raw exposure representing the commodity risk for zinc and there allocate 40 of the quantity specified in line item brass .

In example embodiments the user need not maintain a split equaling 100 . For example if the commodity iron includes 85 pure Fe and 15 dust waste the user may decide to maintain 85 pure Fe only. The split engine uses this percentage to create sub raw exposures for iron.

In example embodiments the split engine is called for all line items regardless of whether the commodity ID is set. In manual mode the split engine is invoked when a line item is created. In BAPI for example the split engine may be invoked when the create is called.

In example embodiments each sub raw exposure has at least one of the following fields a the risk type e.g. commodity or FX risk represented by the sub exposure b the quantity and c the percentage specified in the split customization. This allows the sub exposure quantity to be recalculated if the user later changes the split percentage for a particular exposure.

In example embodiments when any line item data except quantity is modified the system always refers to the split settings. Thus any change in the split settings will apply to sub raw exposure commodity derivations if the underlying raw exposure is subsequently modified.

In example embodiments rule engine creates exposure positions from sub raw exposures based on aggregation and mapping settings defined by the user. In this way as described earlier each raw exposure see also is mapped to one or more exposure positions see also as needed. Thus the user can individually hedge or analyze specific risks whether direct e.g. commodities risks or indirect e.g. FX risks .

In example embodiments a mapping from a sub raw exposure to an exposure position are reflected as a flow . Thus at any time an exposure position represents total exposure which can be traced to one or more flows . In this way a user may view the contributors to and life cycle of specific risks exposure positions throughout a product or risk life cycle.

In example embodiments an exposure position is analogous to a security position pre existing in Treasury.

In example embodiments apart from reflecting the aggregated value exposure positions also reflect the positions that comprise the total position value.

In example embodiments a position does not store anything but instead has the characteristics which constitute the position. The aggregated value is not stored at the position level.

In example embodiments the Exposure Position Type screen allows the user to specify whether and how the rule engine aggregates sub raw exposures into exposure positions through rule mapping.

In example embodiments if aggregation is not chosen then an exposure position is created for each sub raw exposure .

In example embodiments if aggregation is chosen then the rule engine aggregates the sub raw exposures into exposure positions based on fixed fields and rule mapping conditions. If a specified exposure position does not yet exist then the rule engine creates it. If the specified exposure position does exist then the rule engine updates it.

In example embodiments aggregation is based on one or more of the following fixed fields which in example embodiments the user may not modify a period b currency this field is fixed only if the Sub Raw Exposure Type is a foreign exchange risk and or c commodity ID this field is fixed only if the Sub Raw Exposure Type is commodity price risk .

In example embodiments the user creates and maintains other aggregation conditions based on any free attribute.

For example a user specifies a rule for period quarter 1 Q1 currency USD commodity copper and quantity 

In an embodiment the rule is set up and assigned to different exposure position types. Thus different positions may be created.

In example embodiments as shown in the customer initiates a release process. The release uses the release workflow process. For example the customer verifies the raw exposures and manually releases the transaction. As another example the user saves the raw exposure opens it in Display mode and presses Initiate Release to start the release workflow. The release occurs at the raw exposure not sub raw exposure level.

In example embodiments the release workflow process operates according to its settings. If set for direct processing the rule engine uses the mapping settings to create exposure positions from sub raw exposures . If set for workflow process the system creates workflow items which another user must authorize and or release. If set for bypass the customer may bypass the release workflow process.

Subsequent processing and analysis of exposure positions is discussed in various embodiments throughout this application. Those skilled in the art will easily recognize other uses for and applications of the exposure position data object.

Likewise those skilled in the art can appreciate from the foregoing description that the present invention can be implemented in a variety of forms. For example the above embodiments may be used in various combinations with and without each other. Therefore while the embodiments of this invention have been described in connection with particular examples thereof the above embodiments are for illustration purposes only and are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention. The true scope of the embodiments of the invention should not be so limited since other modifications will become apparent to the skilled practitioner upon a study of the present application.

