---

title: Data processing method for generating service interface descriptions
abstract: A data processing method is disclosed. The data processing method comprises the step of receiving a request for a service interface description of a service from a client at a server, wherein the service is implemented via a first service endpoint at the server, and wherein the first service endpoint is associated with a first service endpoint interface description. In a further step, a given set of correlations is employed for the determination of service endpoints correlated with the first service endpoint with respect to the service, wherein each of the correlated service endpoints is associated with a service endpoint interface description. Furthermore the service interface description is generated by aggregating the first service endpoint interface description with the service endpoint interface descriptions of the correlated service endpoints and the service interface description is provided to the client.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08200749&OS=08200749&RS=08200749
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08200749
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080219
---
This application claims the priority benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 of prior European application 07103336.9 filed Mar. 1 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates to a data processing method for generating service interface descriptions in general and for dynamically generating service interface descriptions in particular. The invention also relates to a computer program product adapted to perform the data processing method and to a data processing system for providing a combined service interface description for multiple deployed services.

Web services are commonly employed to provide services to so called clients over e.g. the public internet. The W3C defines a web service as a software system designed to support interoperable machine to machine interaction over a network such as the internet. Web services are frequently just application programming interfaces API that can be accessed over a network and executed on a remote system hosting the requested services.

The W3C web service definition encompasses many different systems however according to common usage the term refers to those services that use SOAP formatted XML envelopes and have their interfaces described by WSDL. The acronym SOAP refers thereby to the simple objects access protocol which is an XML based extensible message envelope format with bindings to underlying protocols such as HTTP SMTP and XMPP. XML is an acronym for extensible markup language. XML is a standard which defines how markup based languages are structured.

The web services description language for which the acronym WSDL is used is an XML based language that provides a model for describing web service interfaces. In particular WSDL is an XML based service description on how to communicate using web services.

A web service is usually deployed to a web service runtime and thereby exposed to a client by one or more web service endpoints. Each web service endpoint is further associated with a service endpoint interface description which is usually implemented by use of WSDL. The service endpoint interface description provides specifications for the client with respect to the functions data data types port types messages and so on that are employed by the corresponding service endpoint or that can be provided by the service endpoint. The service endpoint interface description is a WSDL based description of the defined service endpoint which can be exported such that a remote client may use the information contained in the WSDL description to locate and to remotely invoke features of the corresponding service endpoint.

A client must according to prior art request each service endpoint interface description of each service endpoint separately in order to get a holistic view of all features provided by the underlying services.

It is an object of the invention to provide a method for generating an aggregated service interface description of the service for a client so that the client must not request for service endpoint interface descriptions of several service endpoints with different features and or functionalities that are associated with the aggregated service.

According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a data processing method. In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the method comprises the step of receiving a request for a service interface description of a service from a client at a server. The service is implemented via a first service endpoint at the server and the first service endpoint is associated with a first service endpoint interface description. In a further step a given set of correlations is employed for the determination of service endpoints correlated with the first service endpoint with respect to the service wherein each of the correlated service endpoints are associated with a service endpoint interface description. In a subsequent step the service interface description is generated by aggregating the first service endpoint interface description with the service endpoint interface descriptions of the correlated service endpoints. The service interface description is then provided by the server to the client.

From a server s point of view a service implemented by the first service endpoint as well as the services implemented via the correlated service endpoints can be seen as sub services whereas each service is seen from the client s point of view as an independent service. The service description interface thus provides from the server s view point a holistic view over all the correlated sub services and announces the functionality of all the sub services that are made available to the client and that are regarded by the client otherwise as independent services.

According to the embodiment of the invention the server or an entity of the server determines the service endpoints that are associated with the first service endpoint through which the service is implemented in response to a request of the client for the service interface description of the service. The service endpoints associated with the first service endpoint provide different features and or functionalities with respect to the service. For example the service could relate to a calculator. The first service endpoint might then relate to the plus operation whereas an associated service endpoint might relate to the minus operation.

The service interface description is aggregated by use of the first service endpoint description and the service endpoint interface descriptions of the correlated service endpoints. The service interface description can for example be generated by integrating the first service endpoint interface description and the service endpoint interface descriptions of the correlated service endpoints into the service interface description which is made available to the client. The client is thus able to retrieve the service interface description and to use the information contained in the service interface description to locate and remotely invoke the service. According to the example given above the client further obtains a holistic view of the aggregated service as the client receives via the service interface description detailed information about the plus operation as well as about the minus operation.

The method in accordance with the invention is therefore particularly advantageous as the service interface description is generated such that it comprises the first service endpoint interface description and the service endpoint interface descriptions of the correlated service endpoints. The client therefore obtains a holistic view of the service provided by the server and does not need to request an interface description of each service endpoint separately.

The use of a service interface description which comprises the first service endpoint interface description and the service endpoint interface descriptions of the correlated service endpoints is further particularly advantageous as the service interface description provides a single point of entry for the client in order to access the corresponding aggregated service.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the first service endpoint interface description depends on a status of the first service endpoint. The service interface description is then re generated in response to a change of the status of the first service endpoint. The first service endpoint interface description might provide different specifications or information about the corresponding first service endpoint for the client depending on the status of the first service endpoint. The status of an endpoint might change frequently. As the service interface description is generated in response to a change of the status of the first service endpoint it reflects the status change and it is therefore ensured that the client obtains up to date information about the service.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention a service endpoint interface description of a correlated service endpoint depends on the status of the correlated service endpoint. The service interface description is generated in response to a change of the status of the correlated service endpoint. A correlated service endpoint might change its status and as has been the case for the first service endpoint interface description as described above the corresponding service endpoint interface description of the correlated service endpoint can reflect the status change. As the service interface description is generated in response to such a change up to date information about the service is provided to the client.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the set of correlations provides specifications of how the first service endpoint is correlated with the correlated service endpoint with respect to the state of the first service endpoint and or with respect to the states of the one or more correlated service endpoints. The set of correlations provides therefore instructions on which service endpoint interface description shall be taken into account for the generating of the service interface description depending on the states of the first service endpoint and or the correlated service endpoints.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the service implemented via the first service endpoint comprises features of at least one base service wherein the set of correlations relates to the base service wherein the service endpoint interface description of the base service is determined via the set of correlations and wherein the service endpoint interface description of the base service is aggregated in the service interface description. The service implemented via the first service endpoint might provide features inherited from the base service. The base service can therefore be seen as the service from which the service has inherited some features. The set of correlations refer to the base service and therefore allow to identify the base service and to select the service endpoint interface description of the base service so that it can be integrated into the service interface description.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the set of correlations relates to the functionality of the client. The service endpoint interface descriptions aggregated in the service interface description might then relate to the functionality or to the role of the client with respect to the service the client can for example relate to an administrator or to a user of the service . In that sense a client specific service interface description is provided to each client that requests for it. This provides the advantage that service interface descriptions of services can be designed by taking into account the role of the client.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention a second service endpoint is correlated with the first service endpoint with respect to the service wherein the set of correlations is adapted to reflect the correlation between the first and second service endpoints wherein the second service endpoint is associated with a second service endpoint interface description and wherein the service interface description reflecting the first and second service endpoint interface description is generated in response to the deployment of the second service endpoint. Hence once a second service endpoint which is correlated with the first service endpoint is deployed the service interface description is regenerated such that it comprises the first and second service endpoint interface descriptions. The service interface description is therefore dynamically modified depending on the service endpoints deployed at the server which are correlated with the first service endpoint.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the service interface description is regenerated in response to an undeployment of the second service endpoint without taking into account the second service endpoint interface description which is also undeployed along with the second service endpoint. The service interface description is therefore generated dynamically in order to reflect any deployment or undeployment of a service endpoint associated with the corresponding service.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the first service endpoint the correlated service endpoints the first service endpoint interface description the service endpoint interface descriptions of the correlated service endpoints the second service endpoint the second service endpoint interface description and the service interface description are deployed at a service container which is implemented by the server. The service container is a software component executed by the server or by an operating system running on the server which allows deploying the service endpoints and the associated service endpoint interface descriptions for the client. A container can be seen as a component mediating between the client and the components that actually provide the service. The container can therefore also be seen as middleware linking the client with the service.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the first service endpoint the correlated service endpoints the first service endpoint interface description and the service endpoint interface description of the correlated service endpoints are deployed at the service container wherein the first service endpoint the correlated service endpoint the first service endpoint interface description and the service endpoint interface descriptions of the correlated service endpoints are provided to the service container via an administrative interface. The service container has at least one administrative interface which is used by the service provider in order to deploy the service endpoints and associated service endpoint interface descriptions on the service container.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the set of correlations is provided to the service container via the administrative interface. The administrative interface further allows deploying the set of correlations on the service container so that the set of correlations can be employed to dynamically generate the service interface description from the deployed service endpoint interface descriptions of correlated service endpoints as described above.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention a service endpoint interface description provides a description and specifications with respect to the associated service endpoint. The service endpoint interface description is for example a WSDL file whereas the associated service endpoint relates to a Java file.

According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium in particular a tangible medium such as semiconductor memory magnetic tape or a magnetic or optical disk storing computer executable instructions which are adapted to perform the method in accordance with the invention.

According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a data processing system. According to an embodiment of the invention the data processing system has means for receiving a request for a service interface description for a service from a client at a server wherein the service is implemented via a first service endpoint at the server and wherein the first service endpoint is associated with a first service endpoint interface description. The data processing system further comprises means for employing a given set of correlations for the determination of service endpoints correlated with the first service endpoint with respect to the service wherein each of the correlated service endpoints is associated with a service endpoint interface description. The data processing system has means for generating the service interface description by aggregating the first service endpoint interface description with the service endpoint interface descriptions of the correlated service endpoints and means for providing the service interface description to the client.

The microprocessor executes an operating system OS . The operating system hosts a service container which can be seen as a runtime environment for a service or for a set of services that are provided by the server to the client . The service container has an administrative interface . A service is provided to the client through at least a first service endpoint SE which is deployed along with an associated service endpoint interface description SE ID via the administrative interface on the service container . Furthermore a second service endpoint along with an associated second service endpoint interface description is deployed via the administrative interface . The second service endpoint shall be associated with the first service endpoint with respect to the service.

The first service endpoint interface description provides a description of the first service endpoint e.g. for the client . The second service endpoint interface description further provides a description of the second service endpoint e.g. for the client . The first and second service endpoint interface descriptions can for example be implemented as WSDL files. WSDL is a XML based language that provides a model for describing services. A service endpoint interface description provides detailed information for a client. The information specifies how the client must communicate with the service and which functionality is provided by the service.

A set of correlations is deployed on the service container via the administrative interface . The set of correlations provides information about the service endpoints that are related with other service endpoints with respect to a particular service. The set of correlations is stored on the storage . The set of correlations might have been provided and might be maintained by an administrator of the server .

In order to use the service associated with the first service endpoint the client sends a request to the server where it is received and processed. The service container is able to determine by use of the set of correlations that the second service endpoint is associated with the first service endpoint with respect to the service.

A service interface description SID is then generated by aggregating the first service endpoint interface description and the second service endpoint interface description . According to an embodiment of the invention the term aggregating may be understood as integrating both the first and second service endpoint interface descriptions into the service interface description .

The service interface description which provides a holistic view of the service as the service endpoint interface descriptions of all associated service endpoints are comprised in the service interface description is then provided by the service container to the client . The service interface description can be implemented as a WSDL file which can be transmitted via the connection to the client in response to the request .

The first service endpoint might for example relate to a state A and or to a state B reflecting a service instance A and or a service instance B. A first service endpoint interface description is further deployed on the service container which might reflect the state of the first service endpoint .

A second service endpoint which is associated with the first service endpoint is also deployed via the administrative interface on the service container . Several states or instances of the second service endpoint might be instantiated e.g. state a and state b. A second service endpoint interface description reflecting the state of the second service endpoint is further deployed on the service container providing a description of the second service endpoint when relating to state a and or to state b.

A set of correlations which comprises information about the relationships that exist between the various service endpoints with respect to the various states or service instances is further deployed by the service container via the administrative interface . The set of correlations is stored on the storage . The set of correlations might for example provide the information that when the first service endpoint relates to state A then only the second service endpoint relating to state b is of relevance. Thus when the client requests for a service description interface for the service instance A a service interface description is generated which comprises the first service endpoint interface description for state A and the second service endpoint interface description for state b. The generated service interface description is then provided to the requesting client on the service container .

The status or instance of a service might also change. For example the first service endpoint might at first relate to the state A of the service. The state changes then from state A to state B. In response to a change of a state of a service the service interface description is generated by the service container by use of the set of correlations . The set of correlations might for example specify that the second service endpoint relating to state A is only of relevance when the first service endpoint relates to state B. Hence the newly generated service interface description comprises then the first service endpoint interface description relating to state B and the second service endpoint interface description relating to state a which will then be made available to the client.

The first service deployed via the first service endpoint might be associated with the base service as the first service might have inherited features from the base service. The second service deployed via the second service endpoint might also comprise inherited features from the base service.

The storage holds a set of correlations which comprises information about the features of the first second service endpoints that are inherited from the base service which corresponds to the object inheritance model. The set of correlations is also deployed on the service container via the administrative interface .

When the server receives a request from the client through which the client requests a service description interface of the first service the service container is able to identify via the set of correlations that the first service has inherited features from the base service. A first service interface description is then generated by aggregating a first service endpoint interface description and a base service endpoint interface description . The service endpoint interface description thereby relates to the first service endpoint and the base service endpoint interface description relates to the base service endpoint . The first service interface description is then provided to the client. The first service interface description can for example be implemented in form of a WSDL file which is sent over the network from the server to the client .

When the client sends a request for a service interface description of the second service the service container identifies via the set of correlations that the second service has inherited features from the base service and will then generate a second service interface description by aggregating the base service endpoint interface description and the second service endpoint interface description . The second service interface description is then provided to the client . The second service interface description can for example be implemented in form of a WSDL file which is sent over the network from the server to the client .

