---

title: Recording method, recording apparatus, and computer-readable medium
abstract: A program extraction engine  of an automatic recording module extracts recommended programs, recording of which is recommended, out of programs scheduled to be broadcasted. A scheduling program  of the automatic recording module does not store the recommended programs in the storage medium when a provisional free capacity of the storage medium does not exceed a first threshold or when a provisional total data amount exceeds a second threshold even if the provisional free capacity exceeds the first threshold.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08160427&OS=08160427&RS=08160427
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 08160427
owner_city: Kawasaki
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20081125
---
This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority of the prior Japanese Patent Application No. 2007 317119 filed on Dec. 7 2007 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The embodiment discussed herein is related to a method an apparatus and a computer program for recording a television TV program broadcasted by a broadcasting station.

As it is well known a so called TVPC is a personal computer added with a television function of viewing and recording a broadcasted TV program. In general this television function is realized by installing a tuner device and television TV software in the personal computer.

In recent years implementation of an automatic recording function in this television function has been considered. The television function includes a function of acquiring TV program data from a broadcasting station through a broadcast wave or through the Internet in order to make it possible to present an operator with a list of TV programs scheduled to be broadcasted. The automatic recording function extracts TV program data that satisfies a predetermined condition out of the TV program data acquired by using this program information acquiring function and stores a TV program specified by the extracted TV program data on a storage medium such as a disk medium as moving picture data when the TV program is broadcasted.

However if the automatic recording function is adapted to endlessly store extracted TV programs in the storage medium a free capacity of the storage medium is exhausted sooner or later. Then it is likely that text data and graphic data obtained by other application programs cannot be stored in the storage medium of the TVPC and new software cannot be installed. If a free capacity of the storage medium is too small it is also likely that operations of the TVPC become unstable.

The embodiment discussed herein has been devised in view of such problems of the conventional technologies described above and it is therefore an object of the recording program to appropriately limit storage of moving picture data into a storage medium by the automatic recording function.

In order to solve the problems described above a devised recording program is in order to store a TV program broadcasted by a broadcasting station into a storage medium as moving picture data characterized by causing a computer to function as extracting means that extracts a recommended TV program recording of which is recommended among TV programs scheduled to be broadcasted by the broadcasting station first judging means that judges whether a provisional free capacity exceeds a predetermined first threshold the provisional free capacity being a remainder obtained by subtracting a data amount required for recording of the recommended TV program extracted by the extracting means from a free capacity of the storage medium acquiring means that acquires when the first judging means judges that the provisional free capacity exceeds the predetermined first threshold a total data amount of moving picture data stored as the recommended TV program among moving picture data already stored in the storage medium second judging means that judges whether a provisional total data amount exceeds a predetermined second threshold the provisional total data amount being obtained by adding the data amount required for recording the recommended TV program extracted by the extracting means to the total data amount acquired by the acquiring means and storing means that stores when the second judging means judges that the provisional total data amount is smaller than the predetermined second threshold the recommended TV program extracted by the extracting means in the storage medium as the moving picture data when the recommended TV program is broadcasted.

With this configuration when the provisional free capacity of the storage medium does not exceed the first threshold or when the provisional total data amount exceeds the second threshold even if the provisional free capacity exceeds the first threshold the computer operates not to perform storage of the recommended TV programs in the storage medium. Therefore it is unlikely that text data and graphic data obtained by other application programs cannot be stored and new software cannot be installed. Moreover it is unlikely that operations of the computer become unstable.

Note that the operations related to the recording program disclosed above can also be realized by a recording method or a recording apparatus. In other words these operations may be realized by a recording method of executing by the computer functions equivalent to the respective means of the recording program described above as a plurality of steps or may be realized by a recording apparatus including a plurality of units that function equivalently to those respective means.

Therefore with the disclosed recording program storage of moving picture data in the storage medium by the automatic recording function is appropriately limited.

An embodiment of the recording program described above will hereinafter be described with reference to the accompanying drawings.

As illustrated in the computer network system according to this embodiment includes a TV signal transmitting apparatus a head end apparatus an electronic program guide EPG server apparatus and a personal computer with a television function hereinafter abbreviated as TVPC . Among those apparatuses the TVPC is connected to the head end apparatus via a community antenna television CATV network C and also connected to the EPG server apparatus via the Internet I.

The TV signal transmitting apparatus is an apparatus that broadcasts a TV signal in a form of a radio wave and is set in a facility of a broadcasting station. Note that EPG information used for displaying a list of TV programs scheduled to be broadcasted by the broadcasting station may be superimposed on the TV signal which is broadcasted from the TV signal transmitting apparatus as an EPG signal.

The head end apparatus is an apparatus that transmits a TV signal received from the broadcasting station via a community antenna to the CATV network C and is set in a facility of a cable television broadcasting company. Note that when the head end apparatus is a pass through type that does not modify the TV signal received via the community antenna the EPG information superimposed on the TV signal as the EPG signal reaches a reception side. When the head end apparatus is a trans modulation type that modifies the TV signal received via the community antenna EPG information unique to the cable television broadcasting company may be superimposed on the TV signal which is transmitted from the head end apparatus as an EPG signal.

The EPG server apparatus is an apparatus that provides a web client with EPG information that specifies TV programs in a week from now among TV programs scheduled to be broadcasted by respective broadcasting stations. When a request from a web client is received through the Internet I the EPG server apparatus transmits the EPG information to the web client through the Internet I.

Though not illustrated in the figure as it is well known the EPG information has for each of TV programs TV program data including at least broadcast start date and time running time a channel number and a title of the TV program.

The TVPC is a personal computer added with a television function of viewing and recording a broadcasted TV program.

As illustrated in the TVPC includes a display unit such as a liquid crystal display an input unit such as a keyboard and a mouse and a main body to which those units and are connected. At least a television TV tuner unit a communication adapter unit a serial interface unit a disk drive unit a central processing unit CPU and a memory unit are incorporated in the main body.

The TV tuner unit is a unit that receives a plurality of TV signals from the TV signal transmitting apparatus and the head end apparatus and extracts and digitizes a TV signal of a viewing target channel. This TV tuner unit is also connected to a television antenna set in a general house via a coaxial cable and also connected to a repeater in the CATV network C via a CATV cable. This TV tuner unit is a TV tuner card incorporated in the main body of the TVPC as a detachable expansion card. However the TV tuner unit may be a TV tuner box connected to the serial interface unit described later. This TV tuner unit may include hardware functioning as an encoder that compresses video data which is acquired by digitizing a television signal into a format reproducible on a personal computer. As the encoder for example there is a moving picture experts group MPEG encoder. Note that when the TV tuner unit is a type that does not include the hardware functioning as such an encoder software functioning as the encoder needs to be installed in the disk drive unit described later.

The communication adapter unit is a unit that exchanges data with other computers on the Internet I. As such a communication adapter unit specifically there is a network interface card or a local area network LAN card. This communication adapter unit is connected to a repeater in the Internet I via a network cable. As the repeater there is a switching hub or a router.

The serial interface unit is a unit that exchanges data with an external apparatus according to a serial communication protocol. As a specific communication protocol there is universal serial bus USE RS 232C or institute of electrical and electronic engineers IEEE 1394. This serial interface unit is connected to via a predetermined communication cable an operation signal receiver that receives an operation signal from a remote control device .

The disk drive unit is a unit that readably and writably records various programs and various data in a disk medium. As such a disk drive unit specifically there is a hard disk drive device a digital versatile disk DVD drive device a R RW drive device or a Blu ray Disk BD drive device. As the disk medium there is a hard disk a DVD including DVD Recordable DVD R DVD Rewritable DVD RW DVD Read Only Memory DVD ROM and DVD Random Access Memory DVD RAM a R RW or a BD including BD R BD Rewritable BD RE and BD ROM . Note that in the TVPC instead of such a disk medium that requires mechanical driving a nonvolatile semiconductor memory such as a flash memory set in a predetermined drive unit may be used. In other words in this embodiment a type of an adopted storage medium may be any type as long as various programs and various data can be freely read and written.

The CPU is a unit that performs processing according to a program in the disk drive unit . The memory unit is a unit that the CPU uses to cache a program and data and expand a work area.

The OS software is software that provides an application programming interface API and an application binary interface ABI to various application programs manages storage areas of the disk drive unit and the memory unit manages a process and a task provides an application program with utilities such as file management various setting tools and an editor and allocates windows that multiplex a screen output to a plurality of tasks.

The TV software is software that adds a television function of viewing and recording a broadcasted TV program to a personal computer.

As illustrated in the TV software includes a user interface module program an EPG control module program a record scheduling module program a record scheduled TV program management table a recording control module a recorded TV program management table a reproduction control module and an automatic recording module

The user interface module is a module that receives from the operator via a predetermined graphical user interface GUI list display of TV programs scheduled to be broadcasted scheduling of recording of a TV program display of a TV program being broadcasted a start and a stop of recording of the TV program being broadcasted reproduction of a recorded TV program and condition for automatic recording described later and instructs the record scheduling module the recording control module or the reproduction control module to perform the same.

The EPG control module is a module that acquires when a request from the operator is received via the user interface module and the record scheduling module EPG information from a TV signal received from the TV signal transmitting apparatus or the head end apparatus or EPG information from the EPG server apparatus . When the EPG information is received from the EPG control module through the record scheduling module the user interface module selectively displays TV programs scheduled to be broadcasted within a week on the display unit as a list on the basis of a plurality of pieces of TV program data included in the EPG information.

The record scheduling module is a module that performs record scheduling of a TV program designated by the operator via the user interface module among the TV programs scheduled to be broadcasted within a week. When the record scheduling is performed this record scheduling module calculates on the basis of a set bit rate or the like a file size data amount of moving picture data predicted for the TV program designated by the operator.

The record scheduled TV program management table is a table that the television function manages a TV program record scheduled by the record scheduling module or the automatic recording module described later.

As illustrated in the record scheduled TV program management table has the same number of records as record scheduled TV programs. The respective records have fields of date start time channel title predicted size and automatic recording . The respective fields of date start and time are fields in which a date when a TV program which is specified by fields of the record is broadcasted broadcast start time and running time are recorded. The channel field is a field in which a number of a channel on which the TV program is broadcasted is recorded. The title field is a field in which a title of the TV program is recorded. The predicted size field is a field in which a file size data amount of moving picture data predicted for the TV program is recorded. The automatic recording field is a field in which an automatic recording flag indicating whether the TV program is a TV program recorded by the automatic recording module described later is recorded. When the automatic recording flag is in an ON state the automatic recording flag indicates that the TV program is recorded by the automatic recording module described later. When the automatic recording flag is in an OFF state the automatic recording flag indicates that the TV program is recorded when date and time a period of time and channel number are designated by the operator. Note that the respective records of the record scheduled TV program management table may have fields other than the fields described above for example fields in which an outline of content of the TV program a list of casts and a genre of the TV program are recorded respectively.

A record is added to this record scheduled TV program management table by the record scheduling module . Every time the record scheduling module adds one record to the record scheduled TV program management table the records in the record scheduled TV program management table are rearranged in order from one with the earliest broadcast start date and time.

The recording control module of is a module that executes when a start and a stop of recording are instructed for a TV program being broadcasted by the operator via the user interface module the start and the stop of the recording and executes recording of a TV program generation and storage of moving picture data registered in the record scheduled TV program management table . When a start of recording is instructed for a TV program being broadcasted by the operator via the user interface module the recording control module starts recording of the TV program and stores the TV program in the disk drive unit as moving picture data. When a stop of the recording of the program is instructed the recording control module adds a record of the TV program to the recorded TV program management table described later. The recording control module stays on standby until broadcast start time of a TV program set in an earliest recording order in the record scheduled TV program management table approaches and when broadcast of the TV program is started stores the TV program in the disk drive unit as moving picture data. When the recording of the TV program is finished the recording control module deletes a record of the TV program from the record scheduled TV program management table and adds the record of the TV program to the recorded TV program management table described later.

The recorded TV program management table is a table that the television function manages programs stored in the disk drive unit as moving picture data.

As illustrated in the recorded TV program management table has the same number of records as TV programs stored in the disk drive unit as moving picture data. The respective records have fields of file name size automatic recording date start channel and title . The file name and size fields are fields in which a name and a size of a file having moving picture data for reproduction of a TV program which is specified by fields of the record stored therein are recorded respectively. The automatic recording field is a field in which an automatic recording flag related to the TV program is recorded. Note that the automatic recording flag is set in an OFF state not only for moving picture data stored on the basis of record scheduling designated with broadcast date and time running time and a channel number but also for moving picture data stored when a start and a stop of recording are manually performed for a TV program being broadcasted. The date and start fields are fields in which a date when the TV program is broadcasted and broadcast start time are recorded respectively. The channel field is a field in which a number of a channel on which the TV program is broadcasted is recorded. The title field is a field in which a title of the TV program is recorded. Note that the respective records of the recorded TV program management table may have fields other than the fields described above for example fields in which recording time an outline of content of the TV program a list of casts and a genre of the TV program are recorded respectively.

The reproduction control module illustrated in is a module that selectively presents via the user interface module the operator with information concerning TV programs registered in the recorded TV program management table and executes reproduction of a TV program designated by the operator out of the TV programs for which the information is presented. The reproduction control module is also a module that displays on the display unit a TV program of a channel designated by the operator among TV programs being broadcasted.

The automatic recording module is a module that extracts a TV program that satisfies a predetermined condition out of TV programs scheduled to be broadcasted by respective broadcasting stations and performs record scheduling for the extracted TV program.

As illustrated in the automatic recording module includes a TV program extraction engine automatic recording condition information and a scheduling program .

The TV program extraction engine is a component program for extracting TV program data of recommended TV programs recording of which is recommended out of TV program data included in EPG information acquired from the EPG server apparatus via the EPG control module . Note that a method of extracting TV program data of recommended TV programs out of a plurality of pieces of TV program data is explained in detail in the patent applications filed earlier by the applicant of this application Japanese Patent Application No. 2006 305711 Japanese Patent Application No. 2006 324767 Japanese Patent Application No. 2007 231206 and Japanese Patent Application No. 2007 247950 . Therefore explanation of the method is omitted in this specification.

The automatic recording condition information is information that specifies a condition concerning automatic recording. The automatic recording condition information is stored in a predetermined area on the disk drive unit and updated by the operator via the user interface module . Note that the user interface module may display an automatic recording condition setting screen on the display unit as a GUI screen according to a predetermined instruction by the operator and receive the automatic recording condition information from the operator through the automatic recording condition setting screen.

As illustrated in the automatic recording condition setting screen includes a pair of radio buttons and two text boxes and and two buttons and . The pair of radio buttons and are buttons that the operator uses to designate whether automatic recording should be performed. The two text boxes and are buttons that function only when the automatic recording is designated to be performed. The first text box is a text box that the operator uses to input as a first threshold a lower limit value of a free capacity of the disk medium in the disk drive unit . The second text box is a text box that the operator uses to input as a second threshold an upper limit value of a total amount of file sizes data amounts of moving picture data stored in the disk medium by the automatic recording module . The first button is a condition update button that the operator uses to update the automatic recording condition information according to information input to the pair of radio buttons and and the two text boxes and . The second button is an update cancel button that the operator uses to cancel update work for the automatic recording condition information .

As it is evident from contents of this automatic recording condition setting screen the automatic recording condition information includes the designation information that designates whether automatic recording should be performed the lower limit value first threshold of the free capacity of the disk medium in the case in which the automatic recording is designated to be performed and the upper limit value second threshold of the total amount of file sizes of moving picture data stored through the automatic recording.

The scheduling program illustrated in is a program for performing scheduling of recording of recommended TV programs that satisfy a predetermined condition among recommended TV programs extracted by the TV program extraction engine . This scheduling program is started for example at scheduled time every day or once a week . When this scheduling program is started a scheduling process is generated. Contents of scheduling processing executed by the CPU operating as this scheduling process are explained next.

After the scheduling processing is started in first step S the CPU operating as the scheduling process reads out the automatic recording condition information .

In next step S the scheduling process discriminates on the basis of designation flag information included in the automatic recording condition information whether the automatic recording is designated to be performed or designated not to be performed. When the automatic recording is designated not to be performed the scheduling process finishes the scheduling processing illustrated in . On the other hand when the automatic recording is designated to be performed the scheduling process branches the processing from step S to step S.

In step S the scheduling process acquires a value of a free capacity of the disk medium in the disk drive unit . Specifically the scheduling process gives a predetermined command to the OS software and acquires the value of the free capacity of the disk medium from the OS software . Note that if the OS software is Windows trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States manufactured by Microsoft Corporation an API command called GetDiskFreeSpaceEx may be used.

In next step S the scheduling process reads all file sizes data amounts from all records automatic recording flags of which are in the ON state in the recorded TV program management table and calculates a sum of the read file sizes to thereby acquire a total data amount. Therefore this total data amount is a sum of data amounts of all moving picture data stored in the disk medium through the automatic recording.

In next step S the scheduling process acquires TV program data of recommended TV programs using the TV program extraction engine . Thereafter the scheduling process executes a first processing loop L.

Note that the CPU operating as the scheduling process that executes step S and the CPU operating as the program extraction engine corresponds to the extracting means described above.

In the first processing loop L the scheduling process specifies the TV program data of the recommended TV programs which are acquired in step S as a processing target one by one and executes step S for the TV program data specified as the processing target.

After the registration judgment subroutine is started in first step S the scheduling process calculates on the basis of a set bit rate or the like a file size data amount of moving picture data predicted for a TV program specified in the processing target TV program data.

In next step S the scheduling process subtracts the data amount calculated in step S from the free capacity of the disk medium acquired in step S of to thereby acquire a provisional free capacity.

In next step S the scheduling process discriminates whether the provisional free capacity acquired in step S is equal to or larger than the lower limit value first threshold see of included in the automatic recording condition information acquired in step S of . When the provisional free capacity is smaller than the lower limit value the scheduling process branches the processing from step S and finishes the registration judgment subroutine illustrated in . On the other hand when the provisional free capacity is equal to or larger than the lower limit value the scheduling process advances the processing from step S to S.

Note that the CPU operating as the scheduling process that executes those steps S to S and step S of corresponds to the first judging means described above.

In step S the scheduling process adds the data amount calculated in step S to the total data amount acquired in step S of to thereby acquire a provisional total data amount.

Note that the CPU operating as the scheduling process that executes this step S and step S of corresponds to the acquiring means described above.

In next step S the scheduling process discriminates whether the provisional total data amount acquired in step S is smaller than the upper limit value second threshold see of included in the automatic recording condition information acquired in step S of . When the provisional total data amount is equal to or larger than the upper limit value the scheduling process branches the processing from step S and finishes the registration judgment subroutine illustrated in . On the other hand when the provisional total data amount is smaller than the upper limit value the scheduling process advances the processing from step S to S.

Note that the CPU operating as the scheduling process that executes this step S corresponds to the second judging means described above.

In step S the scheduling process registers a record related to the processing target TV program data in the record scheduled TV program management table see and subsequently rearranges the records in the record scheduled TV program management table in order from one with earliest broadcast start date and time. Thereafter the scheduling process finishes the registration judgment subroutine illustrated in .

Note that the CPU operating as the scheduling process that executes this step S and the CPU that executes the recording control module correspond to the storing means described above.

After finishing the registration judgment subroutine illustrated in the scheduling process finishes this turn of the processing target TV program data in the first processing loop L of .

After finishing executing step S registration judgment subroutine according to for all the TV program data of the recommended TV programs acquired in step S the scheduling process leaves the first processing loop L and finishes the scheduling processing illustrated in . When this scheduling processing is finished the scheduling process terminates.

In a state in which the TV software of the TVPC see according to this embodiment is started when the operator inputs a predetermined instruction by operating the input unit the remote control device and the user interface module the automatic recording condition setting screen see is displayed on the display unit . When the operator designates automatic recording to be performed by selecting the radio button inputs the lower limit value first threshold of a free capacity of the disk medium in the disk drive unit and the upper limit value second threshold of a total data amount of moving picture data recorded by automatic recording to the respective text boxes and and clicks the condition update button the automatic recording condition information is updated.

In this embodiment as described above the scheduling processing illustrated in is periodically executed. In the scheduling processing when automatic recording is designated to be performed step S perform recommended TV programs are extracted by the TV program extraction engine step S and registration judgment processing for registration in the record scheduled TV program management table see is performed for each of the extracted TV recommended programs first processing loop L .

In this registration judgment processing the extracted recommended TV programs are record scheduled registered in the record scheduled TV program management table in order one by one step S Yes step S Yes and step S . However at a stage when any one of the recommended TV programs is about to be record scheduled when a provisional free capacity of the disk medium falls below the lower limit value first threshold set by the operator step S No record scheduling for the recommended TV programs after the recommended TV program is not performed. At a stage when any one of the recommended TV programs is about to be record scheduled when a total data amount of moving picture data recorded by automatic recording exceeds the upper limit value second threshold set by the operator step S Yes and step S No record scheduling for the recommended TV programs after the recommended TV program is not performed.

As illustrated in when a sum of a total data amount of the user data an absolute free capacity capacity coinciding with the first threshold and a maximum capacity allocated to the automatic recording module capacity coinciding with the second threshold is smaller than a total capacity of the disk medium the maximum capacity capacity coinciding with the second threshold is allocated to the automatic recording module

Therefore as illustrated in when a total data amount of the moving data recorded by automatic recording is smaller than the maximum capacity capacity coinciding with the second threshold allocated to the automatic recording module the automatic recording module performs record scheduling registration in the record scheduled TV program management table of the recommended TV programs step S Yes step S Yes and step S . Therefore in the case of the recommended TV programs are automatically recorded.

On the other hand as illustrated in when the total data amount of the moving picture data recorded by automatic recording coincides with the maximum capacity capacity coinciding with the second threshold allocated to the automatic recording module or smaller than the maximum capacity by a slight amount data amount smaller than a file size of a piece of moving picture data the automatic recording module does not perform record scheduling of the recommended TV programs step S Yes and step S No . Therefore in the case of the recommended TV programs are not automatically recorded.

As illustrated in when a remainder obtained by subtracting the total data amount of the user data and the absolute free capacity capacity coinciding with the first threshold from the total capacity of the disk medium is smaller than the maximum capacity capacity coinciding with the second threshold allocated to the automatic recording module a capacity allocated to the automatic recording module is a capacity reduced from the maximum capacity. Therefore when the total data amount of the moving picture data recorded by automatic recording is smaller than a capacity remaining after the reduction the automatic recording module performs record scheduling for the recommended TV programs step S Yes step S Yes and step S . Therefore in the case of the recommended TV programs are automatically recorded.

On the other hand as illustrated in when a remainder obtained by subtracting the total data amount of the user data and the total data amount of the moving picture data recorded by automatic recording from the total capacity of the disk medium is smaller than the absolute free capacity capacity coinciding with the first threshold the capacity allocated to the automatic recording module is zero. Therefore the automatic recording module does not perform record scheduling for the recommended TV programs step S No . Therefore in the case of the recommended TV programs are not automatically recorded.

As described above according to this embodiment the upper limit value of the total data amount of the moving picture data that can be stored in the disk medium by automatic recording is determined and the absolute free capacity of the disk medium is secured as much as possible. Therefore it is unlikely that text data graphic data and the like obtained by other application programs cannot be stored and new software cannot be installed. Moreover it is unlikely that operations of the TVPC become unstable.

In this embodiment explained above all the respective units to in the TVPC may be configured by software elements and hardware elements or may be configured by only hardware elements.

As examples of the software elements an interface program a driver program a table and data as well as combinations of some of the foregoing can be cited. Those may be software elements stored in a computer readable medium described later or may be firmware fixedly incorporated in storage devices such as a read only memory ROM and a large scale integration LSI .

As examples of the hardware elements a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a gate array a combination of logic gates a signal processing circuit an analog circuit and other circuits can be cited. Among those hardware elements an AND an OR a NOT a NAND a NOR a flip flop a counter circuit and the like may be included in the logic gate. Circuit elements that execute addition multiplication division inversion multiply accumulate differentiation integration and the like of signal values may be included in the signal processing circuit. Circuit elements that execute amplification addition multiplication differentiation integration and the like may be included in the analog circuit.

Note that elements configuring the respective units to in the TVPC described above are not limited to those cited as the examples above and may be other elements equivalent to those elements.

In this embodiment explained above all of the TV software in the TVPC the respective modules to and and the respective tables and configuring this TV software as well as the software elements described above may include elements such as a software component a component by a procedural language an object oriented software component a class component a component managed as a task a component managed as a process a function an attribute a procedure a subroutine software routine a fraction or a part of a program code a driver firmware a microcode a code a code segment an extra segment a stack segment a program area a data area data a database a data structure a field a record a table a matrix table an array a variable and a parameter.

All of the TV software the respective modules to and and the respective tables and configuring this TV software as well as the software elements described above may be described in the C language C Java trademark of Sun Microsystems Inc. in the United States Visual Basic trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States Perl Ruby and other many programming languages.

Commands codes and data included in the TV software the respective modules to and and the respective tables and configuring this TV software as well as the software elements described above may be transmitted or loaded to a computer or a computer embedded in a machine or an apparatus through a cable network card and a cable network or through a wireless card and a wireless network.

In the transmission or the loading a data signal is incorporated in for example a carrier wave to thereby move on the cable network or the wireless network. However the data signal may be transferred while keeping a state of a so called baseband signal without depending on the carrier wave. Such a carrier wave is transmitted in an electric magnetic or electromagnetic form an optical or acoustic form or other forms.

The cable network or the wireless network is for example a telephone line a network line a cable including an optical cable and a metal cable a wireless link a cellular phone access line a personal handyphone system PHS network a wireless local area network LAN Bluetooth trademark of Bluetooth SIG a vehicle mounted radio communication including dedicated short range communication DSRC and a network including any one of the foregoing. This data signal communicates information including commands codes and data to nodes or elements on the network.

Note that elements configuring the TV software the respective modules to and and the respective tables and configuring this TV software as well as the software elements described above are not limited to those cited as the examples above and may be other elements equivalent to those elements.

Any one of the functions in this embodiment explained above may be encoded and stored in a storage area of a computer readable medium. In this case a program that realizes the function can be provided to a computer or a computer embedded in a machine or an apparatus via this computer readable medium. The computer or the computer embedded in the machine or the apparatus can realize the function by reading the program from the storage area of the computer readable medium and executing the program.

The computer readable medium refers to a storage medium that accumulates with an electric magnetic optical chemical physical or mechanical action information such as a program and data and holds the information in a computer readable state.

As examples of the electric or magnetic action writing of data in an element on a read only memory ROM configured by a fuse can be cited. As examples of the magnetic or physical action development of a latent image on a paper medium by a toner can be cited. Note that information recorded on the paper medium can be read for example optically. As examples of the optical and chemical action thin film formation or unevenness formation on a substrate can be cited. Note that information recorded in a form of unevenness can be read for example optically. As examples of the chemical action an oxidation reduction reaction on a substrate oxide film formation nitride film formation or a photoresist development on a semiconductor substrate can be cited. As examples of the physical or mechanical action unevenness formation on an emboss card or perforation in a paper medium by a punch can be cited.

Some of computer readable media can be detachably inserted in a computer or a computer embedded in a machine or an apparatus. As examples of the detachably attachable computer readable media a DVD including a DVD R a DVD RW a DVD ROM and a DVD RAM a R WR a BD including a BD R a BD RE and a BD ROM a compact disk CD including a CD R a CD RW and a CD ROM a magneto optical MO disk and other optical disk media a flexible disk including a floppy disk floppy is a trademark of Hitachi Ltd. and other magnetic disk media a memory card compact flash trademark of SunDisk Corporation in the United States smart media trademark of Toshiba Corporation an SD card trademark of SunDisk Corporation in the United States Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. Ltd. and Toshiba Corporation a memory stick trademark of Sony Corporation an MMC trademark of Siemens Corporation in the United States and SunDisk Corporation in the United States etc. a magnetic tape and other tape media as well as a storage device incorporating any one of the foregoing can be cited. In some storage device a dynamic random access memory DRAM or a static random access memory SRAM are further incorporated.

Some of the computer readable media are fixedly inserted in a computer or a computer embedded in a machine or an apparatus. As examples of the computer readable medium of this type a hard disk a DRAM an SRAM a ROM an electrically erasable and programmable read only memory EEPROM a flash memory and the like can be cited.

