---

title: Methods and systems for representing, using and displaying time-varying information on the semantic web
abstract: Methods and systems for providing start and stop properties to Semantic Web structured resources and statements are disclosed. The start and stop properties can specify a lifetime during which a resource or statement can be valid. A call or query to one or more resources can return statement data including the start and stop properties for the resources and/or statements. Dates can be specified with the call or query such that the returned resources and statements have lifetimes including the specified dates. Screen images of the data can display subject and object nodes and predicate arcs for the selected dates. A sequence of screen images can display a timeline of nodes and arcs by adding or hiding nodes and arcs to correspond with the start and stop properties of the statements. Tools are provided for the user to navigate through the sequence.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08595222&OS=08595222&RS=08595222
owner: Raytheon BBN Technologies Corp.
number: 08595222
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080929
---
This application is a continuation of copending commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 806 406 filed on Mar. 23 2004 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 465 925 filed on Apr. 28 2003. Both of these applications are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. This application is co pending with a related patent application entitled Methods and Apparatus for Focusing Search Results on the Semantic Web Ser. No. 10 803 551 by the same inventor and having assignee in common filed concurrently herewith and incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The United States Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license to others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract No. F30602 00 C 0178 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.

The methods and systems relate to representing using and displaying information and more particularly to methods and systems for representing using and displaying time varying information on the Semantic Web.

The Semantic Web is an evolving collection of software tools and content which provides information on the Internet or World Wide Web in such a way that it can be readily used by intelligent agents and other computer programs. Information on the Semantic Web rather than being in natural language text can be maintained in a structure workable by both computers and people. The Resource Description Framework RDF from the World Wide Web Consortium W3C underlies most Semantic Web efforts. RDF consists of statements subject predicate object triples made about instances of specific classes similar to an object oriented programming language .

The Resource Description Framework RDF is a general framework for how to describe an Internet resource such as a Web site and its content. An Internet resource is defined herein as a resource with a Uniform Resource Identifier URI including the Uniform Resource Locators URLs that identify Web sites as well as specific Web pages. Resources can also be physical objects such as people represented on Web pages. As with known HyperText Markup Language HTML META tags the RDF description statements encased as part of an Extensible Markup Language XML section can be included within a Web page HTML file or can be in separate files.

RDF description statements can be represented as graphs containing nodes instances or string literals and arcs statements . provides an example of such a graph for an RDF statement of the form Mike Thornton has a father Joe Thornton. For this RDF statement Mike Thornton is the subject father is the predicate and Joe Thornton is the object. In the exemplary diagram or graph of the ovals can illustrate nodes representing resources ovals and and arcs can represent the named property as shown by arc . The direction of the arc can be from subject to object . It can be understood that other representations besides the illustrated ovals and directional arcs can be used.

While such graphs as illustrated in can pictorially present the properties of subjects and objects they can do so in a static fashion. For example can illustrate an extended graph for statements concerning Mike Thornton taken from a genealogical resource. In addition to the statements in can include the statements shown in Table 1.

It can be seen that Mike Thornton is neither the subject nor object of the last three statements in Table 1. However these statements can be included in the graphical representation as having both subjects and objects in common with statements concerning Mike Thornton. 

Without additional statements providing dates for such events as births deaths or marriages a user cannot determine time varying information from the graphs of . For example one cannot assess whether Noah is older or younger than Jason or the relative ages of other individuals shown. Other time varying information such as multiple marriages can also present difficulties for the representations of . Methods and systems are needed for determining and graphically representing such information from Semantic Web structured resources to a user.

The methods and systems described herein can include providing start and stop time properties to Semantic Web structured resources and statements. The start and stop time properties can specify a lifetime during which a resource or statement can be valid. A call or query to one or more resources can return statement data including the start and stop properties for the subjects and objects of the statements and or the statements themselves. Dates can be specified with the call or query such that the returned statements have lifetimes that include the specified dates. The specified dates can be used by a filter after obtaining the data for the query. Screen images of the data can display subject and object nodes and predicate arcs for the statement data. A sequence of screen images can display a timeline of nodes and arcs by adding or hiding nodes and arcs to correspond with the start and stop properties of the statements and nodes. Tools can be provided for the user to navigate through the sequence.

In one embodiment a method of displaying Semantic Web statements having start properties and stop properties related to lifetimes of the statements includes displaying subjects and objects of the statements as nodes displaying predicates of the statements as arcs connecting the nodes and labeled by the predicates and hiding the nodes and arcs for subjects objects and statements having lifetimes outside of a timeframe selected by a user. Hiding can comprise painting the nodes and arcs of those statements to match a background of the display. One aspect of the embodiment includes providing tools by which the user can select the timeframe. The user can be given options to select a start timeframe corresponding to an earliest one of the start properties of the statements to select an end timeframe corresponding to a latest one of the start properties of the statements and or to select a timeframe increment for displaying the statements in temporal order corresponding to the start properties and the stop properties of the statements. Nodes can be labeled with their URI s or with the value of a literal property such as a name which may itself vary over time based on the start and stop time properties of statements using that property.

In one embodiment a system for displaying graphical representations of time varying information for Semantic Web structured statements includes a processor connected to Semantic Web structured resources and receiving input from a user including a query to retrieve selected statements matching the query. Application program interfaces APIs determine the selected statements from the resource and obtain the start and stop properties for subjects and objects of the matching statements and for the statements themselves. The APIs also determine graphical representation data from the selected statements and their properties. The processor receives the graphical representation data and control a display to present the graphical representations of the selected statements. The processor controls the display to hide graphical representations of those statements whose lifetime does not include a timeframe input by the user. The system include an application tool set operable by the user to input the timeframe wherein the user can select timeframe increments corresponding to the start and stop properties of the selected statements.

In one embodiment a method of displaying graphical representations of time varying information for Semantic Web structured statements from Semantic Web resources includes receiving a query to retrieve selected statements that match a query determining the selected statements from the Semantic Web structured resources obtaining start and stop properties for subjects and objects of the selected statements and for the statements themselves determining graphical representation data for the selected statements and the properties filtering the graphical representation data to control a display to present graphical representations of the statements and controlling the display to hide the graphical representations of those statements whose lifetimes exclude a selected timeframe.

In one embodiment a computer readable medium includes instructions for controlling a processor to associate a lifetime with a Semantic Web structured statement by implementing a start property for the statement that denotes a start time when the statement becomes valid and implementing a stop property for the statement that denotes a stop time when the statement ceases to be valid wherein the lifetime of the statement is denoted by a time interval between the start time and the stop time. The start property and the stop property can be implemented as an XML Schema Datatype including an xsd dateTime datatype an xsd date datatype and or a xsd gYear datatype.

The instructions include instructions for controlling a processor to display a plurality of statements on a display by displaying subjects and objects of the statements as nodes displaying predicates of the statements as arcs connecting the nodes and hiding nodes and arcs for particular statements when a selected display timeframe is outside the lifetimes of those particular statements. The instructions include instructions for controlling a processor to hide the nodes and arcs by painting the nodes and arcs for those particular statements to match a background of the display.

The instructions include instructions for controlling a processor to display a toolset operable by a user to select said timeframe. The toolset can be operable by the user to select a start timeframe corresponding to an earliest one of said start properties of said statements to select an end timeframe corresponding to a latest one of said stop properties of said statements and or to select timeframe increments for displaying the statements in temporal order corresponding to their start properties and stop properties.

To provide an overall understanding certain illustrative embodiments will now be described however it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the systems and methods described herein can be adapted and modified to provide systems and methods for other suitable applications and that other additions and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the systems and methods described herein.

Unless otherwise specified the illustrated embodiments can be understood as providing exemplary features of varying detail of certain embodiments and therefore unless otherwise specified features components modules and or aspects of the illustrations can be otherwise combined separated interchanged and or rearranged without departing from the disclosed systems or methods. Additionally the shapes and sizes of components are also exemplary and unless otherwise specified can be altered without affecting the disclosed systems or methods.

In addition to the subject predicate and object for each statement the RDF statements and Semantic Web resources for use with the methods and systems described herein can have associated start and stop properties. The time interval starting with a specified start time and before a specified stop time can be referred to as the lifetime of the statement or resource. Closed lifetimes include lifetimes having both start and stop times specified. Open ended lifetimes include those having one of the start or stop times specified. Infinite lifetimes include those having neither a start or stop time specified.

The Resource Description Framework RDF from the World Wide Web Consortium W3C can underlie most Semantic Web efforts. While implementation of the start and stop properties can include various known protocols or datatypes for providing and communicating such properties among resources and applications the use of standardized protocols properties and datatypes can be preferred so as to provide for wide use of the methods and systems described herein. Thus in one embodiment the start and stop properties can make use of the xsd dateTime datatype from the W3C XML Schema Datatypes Recommendation though other datatypes e.g. xsd date orxsd gYear can be used.

If multiple time intervals are associated with a given statement or resource instance e.g. a marriage relation between two people who divorce and then remarry each other then instances of the class Interval can be used to group start stop intervals. Thus rather than having start and stop properties associated directly with the object or statement the statement can have multiple Interval instances which each can have its own start and stop properties.

In addition to its start and stop properties the lifetime of a statement can also be constrained by the lifetimes of resources that it can reference as a subject or object. For example a marriage relation ends when one of the participants dies.

Start and stop properties will typically be associated with statements by using RDF statementIDs. The use of RDF statementIDs can result in both asserted and reified statements. The technique can be equally applied to content involving only reified statements. When applied to such content the graph structure for each reified statement can be constructed explicitly without the use of statement IDs.

The screen images of FIGS. and A I can be described with relation to the systems and method of respectively. illustrates an exemplary system for presenting time varying information to a user from one or more Semantic Web structured resources . User can connect to network via processor . One or more servers can facilitate connections to network by user and resources though it can be understood that processor and or resources can be configured for direct connection to network . Processor can include a display by which screen images such as screen image of and the screen images of can be viewed by the user .

In one embodiment consistent with the invention start and start properties can be associated with the statements and resources. Continuing with the example of statement 1 of Table 2 in this embodiment statement 1 can have a start property of 5 29 57 corresponding to the date Mike Thornton was born and a stop property of 06 14 92. Without further information the stop property can refer to a number of events by which the father relationship of Mike and Joe Thornton can end including Mike s or Joe s death. In this embodiment start and stop properties associated with subjects and objects can be used to obtain start and stop properties for the related statements as listed in Table 2. For example the statements Joe Thornton has a birth event of Mar. 16 1928 Joe Thornton has a death event of 06 14 92 can be used to determine the start and stop properties for Joe Thornton. The absence of a statement for a death event for Mike Thornton can indicate Mike Thornton has an open stop property. The above can illustrate that the lifetime of a statement can be further restrained by the lifetimes of its subject and object.

Referring again to APIs of in response to the user query can obtain the statements with start and stop properties from resources matching the user query including the start and stop properties for the statements as shown in Table 2 and can determine the corresponding data for the graphical representations. Processor of can receive the data and display the corresponding screen image such as image of . Screen image includes a view in which the graphical representation can be displayed. Screen image includes one or more file and view manipulation tools such as pull down menus action buttons and scroll bar .

In addition to such known items or tools screen image includes time varying activation buttons including START button NEXT button PREV previous button and END button . It can be understood that varying means for implementing the functions or actions to be described with relation to the activation buttons can be used including pull down menus icons keyboard entries etc. and that the activation buttons shown in are for illustrative purposes and are not restrictive as to the type style and or design of means user can employ for displaying the time varying data provided by APIs . In the exemplary embodiment of the choice of an activation button by user is illustrated at .

When user chooses start button method determines the earliest or base start property date stores the date as the current active date and displays the corresponding subjects objects and or statements. For the earliest property the display can include the one subject or object corresponding to the earliest start property. In one embodiment displaying the corresponding subject or object at includes hiding subjects objects and statements not to be displayed as by painting those subjects objects or statements in the background color of the screen image. For the exemplary statements of Table 2 the earliest start date 03 16 28 corresponds with Joe Thornton . illustrates the corresponding screen image wherein the subjects objects and statements besides Joe Thornton are hidden.

When the NEXT button is chosen method determines the next earliest start or stop property date based on the stored current active date and again the method stores the date determined as the current active date . If a start property is the next earliest date as determined at the display of the corresponding subjects objects and or predicates is added to the screen image. When determines that a stop property is the next earliest date the display of the corresponding subjects objects and or predicates is hidden from the screen image.

Continuing with the selection of NEXT from the next earliest date corresponds to a stop property for Joe Thornton 06 14 92 . Thus in Joe Thornton and the associated predicates father and married to are hidden. The selection of NEXT from determines that the next earliest date corresponds to start date 02 15 94 for Noah Thornton . Thus in Noah Thornton is added as well as predicates father and mother .

When the PREV button is chosen the method can hide corresponding subjects objects and or statements for the current active date when the current active date is a start property date as determined at . When the current active date is a stop property date the method adds the corresponding subjects objects and or statements for the current active date. The method determines and stores the previous earlier date as the current active date . It can be seen that selection of the PREV button reverses the process described in relation with selection of the NEXT button and the sequence of screen images of .

When the END button is chosen the method determines the latest property date and store the latest date as the current date . Method can displays the subjects predicates and objects for the statements and hide those subjects objects and statements having stop properties equal to or less than the determined current date. illustrates the resulting screen image when the user chooses the END button for the exemplary data of Table 2 and Table 2A. In the embodiment of the flow chart for method indicates that after displaying the appropriate screen image as at and method can return to to await further button activations by user . User can end the display or return to perform new queries using the file or view manipulation tools such as pull down menus .

In addition to displaying time varying information as described above the use of start and stop properties for the statements and resources can be used to filter the statements returned by APIs . In this embodiment user can specify a date or range of dates with the query at . APIs can obtain the start and stop properties and return the graphical representation data for those statements having a lifetime that includes the date s specified. For example user can specify the current date. Based on Table 2 and Table 2A the lifetimes of statements 2 7 3a 3b 8a and 8b include the current date and those statements will be returned by APIs . Thus it can be seen that the screen image for the specified date can include screen image of .

For a specified range of dates the APIs can return statements having lifetimes that overlap the specified range of dates. For example user can specify dates in the range of 01 01 50 to 01 01 90. Again using Table 2 and Table 2A the lifetimes of statements 1 4 6 8 3a 3b 8a and 8b can include the specified range and it can be seen that the screen image for the specified range can include screen image of . While APIs can typically return statements including the current date the current date can be adjusted to provide for date ranges without having to re fetch the data.

In one embodiment scroll bar of can represent a timeline corresponding to the time from the earliest start property date of the returned statements to the latest stop property date of the returned statements. For the exemplary statements of Table 2 and Table 2A the scroll bar can represent a timeline from the birth of Joe Thornton 03 16 28 to the current date. Slide illustrated in can be positioned on scroll bar and can correspond to selecting a date for the screen image to be presented. Slide can be activated when user chooses one of the buttons as indicated in phantom at in . Thus slide can be inactive or hidden in screen image of . For example illustrates slide positioned at 01 01 85 thus screen image can include statements having lifetimes that include the date 01 01 85.

The systems and methods described herein may not be limited to a particular hardware or software configuration. The techniques described herein can be implemented in hardware or software or a combination thereof. The systems and methods can be implemented in one or more computer programs executing on one or more programmable computers such as may be exemplified by processor servers or APIs among others that include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements one or more input devices and one or more output devices.

The computer programs or programs may be preferably implemented using one or more high level procedural or object oriented programming languages to communicate with a computer system however the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. The language can be compiled or interpreted. The computer program s can be preferably stored on a storage medium or device e.g. CD ROM hard disk or magnetic disk readable by a general or special purpose programmable computer for configuring and operating the computer when the storage medium or device is read by the computer to perform the procedures described herein. The system can also be considered to be implemented as a computer readable storage medium configured with a computer program where the storage medium so configured causes a computer to operate in a specific and predefined manner.

As provided herein the processor s can thus be embedded in one or more devices that can be operated independently or together in a networked environment where the network can include for example a Local Area Network LAN wide area network WAN and or can include an intranet and or the Internet and or another network. The network s can be wired or wireless or a combination thereof and can use one or more communications protocols to facilitate communications between the different processors. The processors can be configured for distributed processing and can utilize in some embodiments a client server model as needed. Accordingly the methods and systems can utilize multiple processors and or processor devices and the processor instructions can be divided amongst such single or multiple processor devices.

The device s or computer systems that integrate with the processor s can include for example a personal computer s workstation e.g. Sun HP personal digital assistant PDA handheld device such as cellular telephone laptop handheld or another device capable of being integrated with a processor s that can operate as provided herein. Accordingly the devices provided herein are not exhaustive and are provided for illustration and not limitation.

References to a microprocessor and a processor or the microprocessor and the processor can be understood to include one or more microprocessors that can communicate in a stand alone and or a distributed environment s and can thus can be configured to communicate via wired or wireless communications with other processors where such one or more processor can be configured to operate on one or more processor controlled devices that can be similar or different devices. Furthermore references to memory unless otherwise specified can include one or more processor readable and accessible memory elements and or components that can be internal to the processor controlled device external to the processor controlled device and can be accessed via a wired or wireless network using a variety of communications protocols and unless otherwise specified can be arranged to include a combination of external and internal memory devices where such memory can be contiguous and or partitioned based on the application. Accordingly references to a database can be understood to include one or more memory associations where such references can include commercially available database products e.g. SQL Informix Oracle and also proprietary databases and may also include other structures for associating memory such as links queues graphs trees with such structures provided for illustration and not limitation.

References to a network unless provided otherwise can include one or more intranets and or the Internet. References herein to microprocessor instructions or microprocessor executable instructions in accordance with the above can be understood to include programmable hardware.

While the method and systems have been disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiments shown and described in detail various modifications and improvements thereon will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art. As an example those with ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the arrangement and connectivity of the components shown in the figures are merely for illustrative purposes and can be varied accordingly and components may be combined or otherwise reconfigured without departing from the scope of the disclosed systems and methods. Accordingly many additional changes in the details and arrangement of parts herein described and illustrated can be made by those skilled in the art. It will thus be understood that the following claims are not to be limited to the embodiments disclosed herein can include practices otherwise than specifically described and are to be interpreted as broadly as allowed under the law.

