---

title: Initial content customization apparatus and method
abstract: A hardware platform () of choice can be configured and arranged to determine () a current need to respond to a previously unknown person with content and to then obtain () from that person only a modicum of personal information. The hardware platform can then use () that modicum of personal information to access a store of characterizing general information and thereby obtain a corresponding profile for this person. The hardware platform can then automatically and currently provide () initial content to this person, wherein the initial content is customized as a function, at least in part, of this profile information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08386293&OS=08386293&RS=08386293
owner: American Spirit Data Solutions, LLC
number: 08386293
owner_city: Winfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080403
---
This invention relates generally to providing content to a person and more particularly to the initial current provision of content to a person who is previously unknown to the content provider.

Various operating paradigms will accommodate providing content to a person who is previously unknown to the content provider. This in fact likely describes a primary operational constraint and fact of life as pertains to many content delivery mechanisms and approaches. As but one example in this regard a new visitor to a Website is typically unknown to the operator of that Website. Accordingly the content provider will typically design the initial content to be provided to such unknown persons to appeal to a fairly broad audience to thereby appeal at some level to a relatively large number of such visitors.

Though prior practice in this regard is not without some success there are clearly numerous opportunities that remain unaddressed by such approaches. As one example in this regard the content provider may in fact have content that would be of particular interest to a given previously unknown visitor. When this content comprises a niche interest within the overall scope of available content however the content provider will likely either decline to initially present this content or will present this content along with a lot of other content of limited interest in a way that can overwhelm confuse and or frustrate the visitor.

The Personalized Uniform Resource Locator PURL seeks to address this problem by actually identifying the visitor to some sufficient degree to permit the landing page for a new visitor to in fact be customized to a greater or a lesser extent based upon that information for that particular visitor. Though PURLs can indeed facilitate an initial presentation of content that is more likely to be of potential relevance and interest to a given view this approach also requires a considerable amount of front end preparation and in some cases considerable a priori preparation on the part of the hosting entity. Though useful for some application settings these overhead requirements nevertheless present a substantial barrier to adaptation for many other application settings.

Skilled artisans will appreciate that elements in the figures are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions and or relative positioning of some of the elements in the figures may be exaggerated relative to other elements to help to improve understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. Also common but well understood elements that are useful or necessary in a commercially feasible embodiment are often not depicted in order to facilitate a less obstructed view of these various embodiments of the present invention. It will further be appreciated that certain actions and or steps may be described or depicted in a particular order of occurrence while those skilled in the art will understand that such specificity with respect to sequence is not actually required. It will also be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary technical meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions by persons skilled in the technical field as set forth above except where different specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein.

Generally speaking pursuant to these various embodiments a hardware platform of choice can be configured and arranged to determine a current need to respond to a previously unknown person with content and to then obtain from that person only a modicum of personal information. The hardware platform can then use that modicum of personal information to access a store of characterizing general information and thereby obtain a corresponding profile for this person. The hardware platform can then automatically and currently provide initial content to this person wherein the initial content is customized as a function at least in part of this profile information.

By one approach this modicum of personal information can comprise for example only the person s family name and their postal code. Other information might be available and or useful in a given application setting as well. The characterizing general information in turn can comprise such information as demographic descriptors consumer behavior descriptors and or property and material ownership information as may be gleaned through the leveraged application of the personal information. This information can then comprise in the aggregate and or as modified or filtered in view of one another a profile that at least generally corresponds to the visitor.

The customization of the initial content can comprise for example selecting promotional content and or an application as a function of this profile information.

So configured a previously unknown visitor to for example a Website can receive in the initial instance a display of content that is likely to be of greater interest to them. This benefit can be achieved in many instances through the divulgation of little in the way of personal information and in particular little in the way of information that is ordinarily considered to be private or sensitive. As a result both the visitor and the content provider can participate in an experience that is improved for all parties concerned.

These and other benefits may become clearer upon making a thorough review and study of the following detailed description. Referring now to the drawings and in particular to an illustrative process that is compatible with many of these teachings will now be presented. This process can be implemented by any of a wide variety of hardware platforms as will be well understood by those skilled in the art. For the sake of illustration and not by way of limitation it will be presumed for the present purposes that this hardware platform comprises a World Wide Web WWW server. Other specific possibilities will be noted below.

This process provides for determining a current need to respond to a previously unknown person with content. This can comprise for example receiving a browser based hit from this previously unknown person as can occur when this person directs their browser such as Explorer or Firefox to the Uniform Resource Locator URL as corresponds to a website for the content provider.

As used herein this reference to a previously unknown person will be understood to refer to a present understanding at the time of making the aforementioned determination regarding the identity of the visitor. In some cases this unknown status can be absolute in the sense that this person has never before visited this website. In other cases this unknown status can simply reflect a present inability to correlate this visitor with a prior record of their identity. The latter might occur for example when the visitor uses a different computer and a different personal identifier than had been employed during a previous visit.

This process then provides for obtaining from this person only a modicum of personal information. As used herein the expression modicum of personal information will be understood to comprise information that may be insufficient to uniquely identify the person amongst a larger population of available candidate individuals. In the United States for example a Social Security number can serve to specifically identify a unique individual and hence would not comprise such information.

Examples of useful information for these purposes include the person s family name i.e. in typical western cultures their last name and their postal code such as in the United States their five digit zip code . This information might also comprise if desired at least one given name for the person i.e. in typical western cultures their first name .

Such information alone or viewed in the aggregate is not assured of specifically identifying a unique individual. There can be for example other persons with the same name within the same given postal code. As a result many individuals including individuals who harbor concerns regarding their relative privacy are comfortable with providing such information in response to a corresponding query. It is therefore possible to seek to obtain this information by presenting the visitor with an opportunity to provide this information in response to a corresponding query prior to providing the visitor with an entry page that corresponds to the URL to which they have directed their browser. This can be as simple as a screen display with two or three fields in which the visitor can enter their name their postal code or the like. Specific textual auditory and or graphic prompts can be employed as desired to assist the visitor with accomplishing this small task.

As noted above this modicum of personal information comprises information that many people are comfortable to provide quite early in virtually any social business or other exchange. This information is also quite small in quantity and can typically be entered in only a few seconds by the user. It is therefore anticipated that most visitors will not be deterred or frustrated by such an opportunity.

Upon receiving this modicum of information this process then provides for automatically using the information to access a store of characterizing information and thereby obtain corresponding profile information for the visiting person. This can comprise for example accessing a single local store of such information and or a single remote store of such information where remote will be understood to refer to a store of information that is under different administrative control and which is also usually physically remote as well residing for example in a different building than the hardware platform conducting this process . This step will also accommodate accessing a plurality of stores of characterizing general information. This can include different stores that may contain largely redundant information such as different consumer data reporting stores of information as well as stores that contain different kinds of information.

If desired the corresponding search criteria can comprise modified versions of the personal information as is provided by the person. For example if desired known variations on first names can be called upon to enrich the corresponding query. To illustrate when the visitor identifies themselves by the given name Bob this process will readily accommodate automatically using alternative forms of that name such as Robert Rob Bobby and so forth when forming the corresponding query. Other possibilities exist in this regard such as phonetic search algorithms that can suggest alternative expressions that are phonetically identical or similar to a given input expression.

The specific kinds of characterizing information can and will vary from one application setting to another. Generally speaking however such information can comprise information regarding demographic descriptors consumer behavior descriptors and or property and material ownership information. Demographic descriptors might comprise for example information regarding the age range the family size sports affinities professional and or academic standings and other typical affinities relationships or interests. Consumer behavior descriptors might comprise for example information regarding local stores that person may generally visit Internet based shopping proclivities and so forth. And property and material ownership information might comprise for example information regarding typical vehicle purchases home ownership and so forth of the person. Those skilled in the art will recognize and understand that these examples are intended to serve only in an illustrative capacity and are not intended to comprise an exhaustive listing of all possibilities in these regards.

As noted above this step also provides for obtaining corresponding profile information for the visitor. This comprises forming this profile information as a function in part or in whole of the accessed characterizing information. In some cases the accessed characterizing general information will itself comprise this profile information in a disaggregated form. There are other possibilities however. In some cases for example it will possible to employ the name of the previously unknown visitor to add some amount of greater specificity to the gathered information.

For example it may be generally understood that families of four within this postal code area tend to have three vehicles while families of three or less tend to have only two vehicles. When it is possible to determine via the visitor s name that they are a part of a four person family it becomes possible to then determine that generally speaking it is likely that the visitor s family has three vehicles. Such an inference is not of course guaranteed but the inference can nevertheless comprise a part of a useful profile for the visitor.

In cases where characterizing information is not obtainable for a particular individual characterizing general information derived from a subset of the obtained modicum of personal information a postal code only for example can be used to determine a likely general profile for an individual. Demographic descriptors might comprise for example information regarding the typical age range the typical family size sports affinities typical professional and or academic standings and other typical affinities relationships or interests of persons residing within the indicated postal code. Consumer behavior descriptors might comprise for example information regarding local stores that persons within the indicated postal code generally visit Internet based shopping proclivities of persons within the postal code and so forth. And property and material ownership information might comprise for example information regarding typical vehicle purchases home ownership and so forth of persons within the postal code. Those skilled in the art will recognize and understand that these examples are intended to serve only in an illustrative capacity and are not intended to comprise an exhaustive listing of all possibilities in these regards.

Using modern network based access methodologies such as opportunities made available via the Internet it is possible to query the aforementioned store of characterizing general information and receive the corresponding information in a fraction of a second. For example even when the store of information comprises a store that is administered by another entity such a transaction can often be accomplished in less than 300 milliseconds. In some cases it may be useful to pre arrange the query and response protocol process as between the content provider and the store of information in order to reduce the time requirements to a relative minimum.

Some potentially useful stores of information include but are not limited to consumer data reporting services such as but not limited to the Experian and Equifax sites .

This process then automatically currently provides initial content to the visiting person via a custom landing page. This initial content is customized as a function at least in part of the aforementioned profile information. This customization can assume any of a variety of forms. By one approach for example this can comprise segmenting the various candidate items of content that are presently available to initially present to the visitor and then selecting from amongst the candidates using corresponding rules regarding the selection process. This kind of informed selection processing is well understood in the art and requires no particular elaboration here.

Referring now to and for the purposes of illustration and not limitation this initial content can comprise a landing page as corresponds generally to a URL employed by the visitor s browser but with some assembled content customized as a function at least in part of the aforementioned profile information. This landing page may present a standard content header standard primary content and or standard promotional content that is not customized and that comprises a part of the landing page regardless of the visitor s profile. This landing page can also comprise however custom primary content and or custom promotional content .

Again by way of illustration and not by way of limitation this landing page might comprise the landing page for a health club. The standard content header could provide notice of this fact and the standard primary content could in turn present information considered to be of likely interest to most site visitors. The standard promotional content could in turn comprise promotions that the health club again considers to be usefully provided to all site visitors.

The custom primary content however can comprise content that has been specifically selected as a function of the visitor s profile information. For example if the visitor has children the health club may choose to promote its family programs. If the visitor is a golf enthusiast the health club may choose to promote personal trainers that specialize in exercises designed to improve one s golf game. Note that these examples and profile strategies when applied are not necessarily exclusive of each other.

In cases where characterizing information is not obtainable for a particular individual characterizing general information derived from a subset of the obtained modicum of personal information a postal code only for example can be used to determine a likely general profile for an individual. If the visitor s postal code corresponds to a postal code in a location that is known to have a high percentage of families with young children for example this custom primary content might comprise an article that explains the benefits of exercise for young parents. The custom promotional content in turn might comprise information advertising the health club s childcare facility.

Those skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate that such customized content of primary or promotional nature can with some reasonable assurance be of considerably greater interest to such a visitor. In fact these are precisely the kinds of benefits and improvements that one ordinarily associates with personalized landing pages that rely upon a previously established profile of information that itself comprises more than a modicum of personal information as was previously provided by the visitor or as was based upon their actions while making a previous visit using for example cookies PURL methodologies and so forth . In the present case however these same benefits are obtained in a setting where the visitor is previously unknown to the content provider and where traditionally the initial information conveyed must essentially all comprise standard content and not customized content.

As noted above this process relates to providing initial content that is customized for a given visitor as a function of their profile information. This reference to initial will be understood in context to refer to the primary destination i.e the landing page as correlates to and corresponds to the URL to which the visitor s browser is directed and is not intended to refer for example to a preliminary entry screen that serves the purpose of obtaining the aforementioned modicum of personal information.

In the illustrative examples provided above the process is generally presumed to accommodate a circumstance where the visitor is not likely to be uniquely identified via the modicum of personal information. There are many application settings however where successfully uniquely identifying the visitor using this modicum of personal information can in fact be expected to occur for at least some visitors. Some application settings for example can offer sufficiently deep and rich data resources so as to make such an expectation a reasonable one. With this in mind and referring now to a somewhat modified illustrative process that also accords with these teachings will be provided.

As before this process can again begin with determining a current need to respond to a previously unknown person with content and then obtaining from that person the aforementioned modicum of personal information. This process can then provide for automatically using that modicum of personal information to attempt to specifically identify this particular person. As before this process provides for using the personal information to form a corresponding query that is then typically presented to one or more remote data resources such as by way of one non limiting example a consumer data reporting entity . The latter then return corresponding data to the hardware platform. Also as before this entire transaction can often be completed using today s resources and networking capabilities in less than one second.

This process then provides for determining whether the returned information serves to specifically identify the visiting person. By one approach for example this can simply comprise noting that only information for a single individual has been returned in response to the aforementioned query queries . When true this process can then provide for automatically using that person s identity to access a store of characterizing specific information and obtaining corresponding profile information for that person. By one approach this can comprise using information as may have been already returned in response to the aforementioned query queries . By another approach in combination with the above or in lieu thereof this can comprise formulating one or more subsequent queries using the specific identity of the person and posing those subsequent queries to one or more data resources to acquire the characterizing specific information. As before this can then lead to automatically currently providing initial content to the person wherein the initial content is customized as a function at least in part of the profile information.

When the aforesaid determination concludes that the initial query queries did not result in specifically identifying the person this process can provide for determining whether multiple matches have been returned. When this is true this process can then provide if desired for obtaining disambiguation content from the person. As one simple example in this regard when the person has identified themselves as being Bob Walker and information for two different Bob Walkers has been returned to the hardware platform this step can comprise presenting information for both Bob Walkers and asking the visitor to select one as being themselves. This could comprise for example displaying a first Bob Walker who resides at a first residential address and a second Bob Walker who resides at a second different residential address along with a random selection of non differentiating residential addresses to limit the possibility of a lucky guess As another example in this regard the process may pose an additional question to the person to elicit additional input from the person. This might comprise for example asking the person for their street of residence the name of a family member the name of their alma mater and so forth.

The process then provides for determining whether the person s disambiguation response is sufficient to specifically identify the person. When true the process can continue as described above to automatically use their now established identity to access the desired information and to use that information to inform the customization of the initial content being provided to them.

When the disambiguation response of the person is insufficient to permit specifically identifying the person as when for example the person provides a response to the disambiguation opportunity which identifies no person in particular or when the process has earlier determined and that the original information failed to specifically identify the person and multiple matches were not the result of that initial query this process can then proceed as described earlier by automatically using the modicum of personal information to access a store of characterizing general information as generally relates to the person and to then use the corresponding profile information to provide customized initial content.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the above described processes are readily enabled using any of a wide variety of available and or readily configured platforms including partially or wholly programmable platforms as are known in the art or dedicated purpose platforms as may be desired for some applications. Referring now to an illustrative approach to such a platform will now be provided.

In this illustrative embodiment the hardware platform comprises generally a processor that operably couples to both a data store interface and an application programming interface API which may or may not be based upon any of a variety of open protocols such as web services. Those skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate that such a processor can comprise a fixed purpose hard wired platform or can comprise a partially or wholly programmable platform. All of these architectural options are well known and understood in the art and require no further description here.

This processor can be configured and arranged via for example corresponding programming as will be well understood by those skilled in the art to carry out one or more of the aforementioned steps actions and functionality of the described process . This can specifically comprise if desired determining a current need to respond via the application programming interface to a previously unknown person with content obtaining from that person again via the API only a modicum of personal information automatically using that modicum of personal information to access via the data store interface a store of characterizing information and to obtain corresponding profile information for the person and also to automatically currently provide via the API initial content to the previously unknown person wherein the initial content is customized as a function at least in part of the profile information.

By one approach and as noted above the hardware platform can comprise a World Wide Web WWW server. In such a case the application programming interface can itself comprise a browser based interface as is known in the art. There are other possibilities as regards the hardware platform however. For example if desired the hardware platform can comprise an interface to a point of sales terminal. In such a case some or all of the information as is initially provided to a visitor to that point of sales terminal can be partially or wholly customized notwithstanding that this visitor may be previously unknown to the apparatus. As another example in this regard this hardware platform could comprise a node that receives Short Message Service SMS messages.

Those skilled in the art will recognize and understand that such an apparatus may be comprised of a plurality of physically distinct elements as is suggested by the illustration shown in . It is also possible however to view this illustration as comprising a logical view in which case one or more of these elements can be enabled and realized via a shared platform. It will also be understood that such a shared platform may comprise a wholly or at least partially programmable platform as are known in the art.

So configured those skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate that these teachings make possible a kind of personalized treatment of initially provided content that has previously only been possible for visitors who are previously known in some manner to the content provider. In a very real sense the benefits and flexibility often associated with PURLs are now extendable in numerous ways to a static URL that is used by a vast population of previously unknown visitors. These teachings are readily leveraged for essentially any kind of content including textual content audio content still images or video content and so forth. It will also be understood that these teachings are easily scaled and will work in cooperation with a wide range of content quantity.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that a wide variety of modifications alterations and combinations can be made with respect to the above described embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention and that such modifications alterations and combinations are to be viewed as being within the ambit of the inventive concept. As one example in this regard it will be understood and appreciated that the above described actions occur in real time as perceived by the visitor. The amount of time required to effect these steps might however be potentially reduced by using a first item of personal information as offered by the visitor to access a corresponding store of information before having received all such items of personal information from the visitor. As another example in this regard the customization of the initial content to be presented to a previously unknown person can itself comprise at least in part providing an application. In such a case the selected application may comprise a standalone application such as a particular media playback mechanism or might comprise a particular selection from amongst various user interfaces supported capabilities and so forth.

