---

title: Apparatus and method for displaying log information associated with a plurality of displayed contents
abstract: The present invention relates to an apparatus for displaying log information, comprising: a receiving unit for receiving at least one content and correlation information; the correlation information including correlation that correlates each of a plurality of segments formed at a display and each of the at least one content outputted to the plurality of segments, an output unit for outputting the at least one content to the plurality of segments based on the correlation information; and a processor; wherein the processor is configured to generate the log information including segment information and content information, the log information representing content output history, the segment information identifying each of the plurality of segments, and the content information identifying each of the at least one content, extract part of the log information based on either of the segment information or the content information, and output the extracted log information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09342813&OS=09342813&RS=09342813
owner: GVBB Holdings S.A.R.L.
number: 09342813
owner_city: Luxembourg
owner_country: LU
publication_date: 20080613
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 365 of International Application PCT JP2008 001537 filed Jun. 13 2008 which was published in accordance with PCT Article 21 2 on Dec. 17 2009 in English.

In recent years in various facilities such as training facilities and business facilities there has been an increase in the requirement to output a combination of a number of different types of contents such as video sequences still images text and audio at the same time. For example a desire has arisen to output a number of contents to a single display at the same time in order to convey a greater amount of information to users such as customers and students at one time. There is also a desire arising to output audio and text data relating to video sequences at the same time in order to convey information to a user in a manner that is easy to understand and effective using both a sense of sight and a sense of hearing.

For example an STB Set Top Box has been put forward as a way of meeting such requirements. An STB is a terminal device having a function that connects a server and a management computer terminal via a network connects an output device via a cable converts a plurality of image contents distributed by a server into signals capable of being watched and listened on an output device such as a display and outputs the signals to the output device. The STB divides a display region of a display into a plurality of regions based on description language such as HTML HyperText Markup Language and outputs a plurality of contents accumulated on the server simultaneously at each region.

Methods exist of notifying the user of the occurrence of a malfunction by displaying a predetermined icon video sequence or message in the region for displaying the content for which the malfunction occurred on the display when a malfunction occurs for one of a plurality of content outputs.

It is difficult though in this case to give a notification that extends as far as the cause of the malfunction. Here malfunction refers to cases where it is not possible to display an image because for example the data format or size of the image is different or a file of the image cannot be obtained. When log information corresponding to the malfunction is displayed the amount of log information generated by the various causes is vast. The causes therefore cannot be sufficiently displayed in the display region for the content. When log information is displayed as far as other display regions for contents it becomes difficult to see the contents. Even if the log information can be displayed specifying the log information that is wished to be referenced from the vast amount of log information is troublesome.

It is therefore the object of the present invention to provide an apparatus and method capable of easily displaying just the necessary portions of the output history of a plurality of displayed contents.

According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided an apparatus for displaying log information comprising a receiving unit for receiving at least one content and correlation information the correlation information including correlation that correlates each of a plurality of segments formed at a display and each of the at least one content outputted to the plurality of segments an output unit for outputting the at least one content to the plurality of segments based on the correlation information and a processor wherein the processor is configured to generate the log information including segment information and content information the log information representing content output history the segment information identifying each of the plurality of segments and the content information identifying each of the at least one content extract part of the log information based on either of the segment information or the content information and output the extracted log information.

According to the present invention the log information indicating the content output history is generated so as to include segment information that identifies a segment and content information that identifies a content. For example when a video sequence is outputted at a certain segment log information including segment information that identifies the segment where the video sequence is being outputted and content information that identifies the video sequence is generated. By using either of the segment information or the content information as a search key log information is then extracted from the generated log information and outputted to the output device. As a result when contents are outputted in parallel at a plurality of segments the user can easily refer to log information for the content outputted at a desired segment or log information for the desired content from within a vast amount of log information.

In the scope of the claims and specification of the present invention segment refers to a region formed at part of the entire display region of the display unit that is the output destination of a content. In the case of the picture in picture display format it is also possible for one segment to be the entire display region of the display unit. Further a content includes for example video sequences still images and text etc.

According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for displaying log information comprising steps of receiving at least one content and correlation information the correlation information including correlation that correlates each of a plurality of segments formed at a display and each of the at least one content outputted at the plurality of segments outputting the at least one content to the plurality of segments based on the correlation information generating the log information including segment information and content information the log information representing content output history the segment information identifying each of the plurality of segments and the content information identifying each the at least one content extracting S part of the log information based on either of the segment information or the content information and outputting S the extracted log information.

According to the present invention when contents are outputted in parallel at a plurality of segments the user can easily refer to log information for the content outputted at a desired segment or log information for the desired content from within a vast amount of log information.

According to a still further aspect of the present invention there is provided a program for causing a computer to execute the steps of receiving at least one content and correlation information the correlation information including correlation that correlates each of a plurality of segments formed at a display and each of the at least one content outputted at the plurality of segments outputting the at least one content to the plurality of segments based on the correlation information generating the log information including segment information and content information the log information representing content output history the segment information identifying each of the plurality of segments and the content information identifying each of the at least one content extracting S part of the log information based on either of the segment information or the content information and outputting S the extracted log information.

According to the present invention when contents are outputted in parallel at a plurality of segments the user can easily refer to log information for the content outputted at a desired segment or log information for the desired content from within a vast amount of log information.

According to a still further aspect of the present invention there is provided a system for displaying log information comprising a correlation generating unit for generating correlation information that correlates each of a plurality of segments formed at a display and each of at least one content outputted to the plurality of segments an output unit for outputting the at least one content to the plurality of segments based on the correlation information and a processor wherein the processor is configured to generate the log information including segment information and content information the log information representing content output history the segment information identifying each of the plurality of segments and the content information identifying each of the at least one content extract part of the log information based on either of the segment information or the content information and output the extracted log information.

According to the present invention when contents are outputted in parallel at a plurality of segments the user can easily refer to log information for the content outputted at a desired segment or log information for the desired content from within a vast amount of log information.

According to the present invention it is possible to easily refer to necessary portions of content output history even when a plurality of contents are outputted in parallel at a display.

Referring to the log information system includes a multimedia terminal a server connected to the multimedia terminal via a network such as the Internet a display connected to the multimedia terminal via a cable and an operation unit that generates an operation signal indicating the results of a user operation and outputs the operation signal to the multimedia terminal .

The multimedia terminal is a terminal that outputs a plurality of contents to a plurality of different segments at the display . Various types of data that can be sensed by sight such as video sequences still images and text are included in the contents. In the first embodiment the contents are taken to be video sequences still images and text for ease of description. In the first embodiment a segment refers to each display region formed at part of the entire display region of the display that is the output destination of each of the contents. Segment information is information that identifies each of the segments and is referred to in the first embodiment as a segment identifier. Segment identifiers can be allocated dynamically or can be fixed.

The multimedia terminal is for example an STB that outputs the contents distributed from the server to the display . Although only one multimedia terminal is shown in it is also possible for a plurality of multimedia terminals to be connected to the server with displays then being connected to each of the plurality of multimedia terminals .

The server has a content DB and a correlation DB . The content DB stores content information and the contents in a correlated manner. The content information is information that identifies each of the contents and is referred to in the first embodiment as a content identifier. For example a file name or URL Universal Resource Locator can be used as a content identifier. The correlation DB stores correlation data that correlates the content identifiers the segment identifiers and the content output time. The content DB and the correlation DB do not have to be at the server and can also be for example within the multimedia terminal .

Referring to in this example the multimedia terminal has a CPU a RAM a ROM an input interface an output interface a hard disc drive HDD a communication interface and a bus that connects these elements together.

The CPU executes a control program recorded in the ROM and controls the overall operation of the multimedia terminal . The CPU may be a processor and a circuit incorporating a processing circuit such as an MPU a GPU and a DSP etc. may be used for a processor other than a CPU. A processor may be a general purpose processor or a built to order processor for example ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit . The RAM functions as a work area for executing programs. The ROM stores a control program and preset parameters etc. The input interface I F in the drawings receives an operation signal indicating the results of user operations of the operation unit such as a remote controller and a keyboard etc. and supplies an operation signal to the CPU via the bus . The output interface I F in the drawings supplies contents to output equipment such as the display . The HDD stores the contents and correlation data supplied via a read out bus from the server . The communication interface I F in the drawings sends and receives data to and from the server via a network.

Referring to by executing a program the CPU of the multimedia terminal is caused to function as a correlation unit content output unit log generating unit log extracting unit and log display unit . The HDD of the multimedia terminal has a correlation table and a log DB . The CPU carries out processing based on the data on the HDD . First the data on the HDD is described and then each function of the CPU is described.

Referring to the correlation table stores correlation data acquired from the server . The correlation table is stored in the HDD . The correlation table can also be stored in the RAM .

At least the segment identifier and the content identifier are correlated at the correlation table . At the correlation table it is also possible to correlate other information in addition to the segment identifier and the content identifier. In this example content output time is further correlated. The correlation table of for example correlates the content identifier movie A between 8 00 and 9 59 with the segment identifier Seg001 and correlates the content identifier movie B between 10 00 and 13 59 with the segment identifier Seg001 .

In this example the output time is shown using absolute time information but this is by no means limited. For example the output time can be time information indicating relative time based on when the output of the content identifier movie A starts so that the start time of content to be outputted next can be shown based on the relative time information.

Further with the correlation table of this example the segment identifier and the coordinates indicating the segment display region are correlated. The segment display region is a display region that is part of the display in this example. Each display region can be described by for example coordinates x y z . In the first embodiment the case where display regions of each two dimensional segment displayed using coordinates x y do not overlap and do not change with time is shown to simplify the description. However even if the display regions for each segment do overlap display regions for each segment in this case can be shown using three dimensional coordinates x y z . Further it is also possible to store a correlation of the segment ID and the coordinates separate from the correlation table

The correlation table can be for example described using description language such as for example SMIL Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language or HTML Hypertext Markup Language . A plurality of contents are outputted to each of segments based on the correlation data described using SMIL etc. An output example is described in the following using 2 2 content output unit 

Referring to log information is stored in the log DB and is a history of content outputted by the content output unit . The log information is written in by the log generating unit . The log information correlates at least the segment identifier the content identifier and the history . In this example the log information includes a record number time priority level history segment identifier and content identifier within one record.

The record number is an arbitrary number for identifying each record. The time is time information that indicates when the log information is generated. The priority level indicates a degree of importance of each record included in the output history of content outputted by the content output program. In the first embodiment the priority level is indicated in order from low priority as information notice warning error and critical . History is a text message indicating the operation state of the output program generated by the content output program. For example when a content file to be outputted cannot be found a message File Not Found is written to the history. Segment identifier is information that identifies a segment. Content identifier is information that identifies a content.

Time information included in the log information can be a time of the occurrence of an event that causes information to be logged. Log information can include not only the above information but also other information including for example program operation information. It is also possible to give messages indicating starting up or ending of a program indicating the log history of a user or indicating that equipment is operating normally as the program operation information.

Returning to the correlation unit correlates a plurality of segments in the display and the contents outputted at each of the segments. In the first embodiment the correlation unit acquires correlation data correlating the content identifiers the segment identifiers and the content output time from the server for storage in the correlation table . The timing of acquisition of the correlation data is by no means limited and can for example occur at predetermined intervals or occur at predetermined days and times. The correlation unit can also acquire the correlation data at an arbitrary timing from the server using a push method.

The content output unit acquires each of the contents from the server for output to each of segments based on the correlation data included in the correlation table . The segments and times for outputting contents are segments and output times specified by the correlation data. The content output unit is realized on CPU by one or a plurality of output programs. For example a web browser email a video sequence output program or an audio output program can be given as output programs.

Referring to in this example the display region of the display is divided into three so as to form three segments. Each segment is identified by segment identifiers Seg001 Seg002 and Seg003 . In the following the segments are referred to simply as segment Seg001 segment Seg002 and segment Seg003 . A video sequence specified using content identifier movie A is displayed at segment Seg001 . Text data of content identifier text A is displayed at the segment Seg002 . A still image of content identifier picture A is displayed at the segment Seg003 . In the following these are simply referred to as content movie A content text A and content picture A .

Each of the output programs of the content output unit passes over output history for the contents to the log generating unit in parallel with the content output processing. The output history that the content output unit passes over to the log generating unit includes at least history segment identifier and content identifier . The data included in the output history is by no means limited to this example and can include for example priority level history segment identifier and content identifier . Priority level history segment identifier and content identifier are the same as for the log information.

Further the content output unit can also designate recording rules for the log generating unit using the priority levels described above. The passed over output history is written to the log DB in accordance with the designated recording rules. For example output history of a predetermined priority level or higher is written to the log DB . Further for example it is also possible for the content output unit to display output history having a priority level of critical desired by the user on the screen and designate the writing of output history having another priority level of error to the log generating unit

It is preferable for a message indicating the priority level such as for example information notice warning error or critical to be shared by each of the output programs. It is also straightforward for the log extracting unit to extract log information of a predetermined priority level or higher. However it is also possible to use a different message for each output program. The text message described in the history depends on each output program.

Referring to in this example the output program switches over the segment Seg001 from an output screen for the content movie A to a still image displaying a malfunction mark x . When a malfunction occurs in the output for the content each output program outputs a predetermined notification to the segment corresponding to the content. The predetermined notification can include a predetermined video sequence a still image a text image or a combination of such images and depends on each output program. A malfunction can be deterioration in picture quality or stopping of the outputting of a content etc. A malfunction occurs for example when a content cannot be found at the server or when the receipt of data is delayed as a result of packet loss on the network . There are various causes of malfunction such depending on the output program for the content or the operating environment of the multimedia terminal .

Returning to the log generating unit generates the log information and writes the log information to the log DB in response to the output history passed over from the content output unit and the designation of recording rules. In the first embodiment the log generating unit further writes time information that indicates when the log information is generated to the log DB together with the output history.

The log generating unit can be implemented using for example syslog. It is also possible to generate log information using an independent mechanism depending on each output program without using the syslog as the log generating unit

The log extracting unit extracts part of the log information stored in the log DB and outputs the extracted log information to the log display unit . The extraction of the log information is carried out based on either the segment identifier or the content identifier. The log extracting unit can extract log information based on either a segment identifiers or a content identifiers and time information generated by the log information. In the first embodiment the log extracting unit extracts log information based on a segment identifier.

Referring to the confirmation window is for the user to select whether or not to display log information. For example when the operation unit refer to is a remote controller display of the confirmation window is designated as a result of the user pressing down a predetermined button provided at the remote controller. When yes is clicked in the confirmation window the log extracting unit displays the segment designation window described in the following. An example is given of the timing of displaying the confirmation window that is the time of receiving a predetermined input operation by the user via the operation unit in a state where a malfunction has occurred refer to .

Referring to the segment designation window receives a segment identifier designation from the user. For example when the operation unit refer to is a remote controller designation for a segment identifier takes place as a result of the user pressing down a predetermined button provided at the remote controller. In this example a situation is shown where segment Seg001 is designated. Before displaying the segment designation window the log extracting unit refers to the correlation table and reads out at least the segment identifiers. The log extracting unit then displays the segment designation window based on the read out information and receives the segment identifier designation. For example the log extracting unit displays a segment identifier list and receives designation for any of the segment identifiers. Further the log extracting unit can also for example specify the designated segment identifier by receiving a designation for the segment position.

If a segment arrangement is displayed in the segment designation window and a segment position designation is received it can be anticipated that it will be easy for the user to visualize the segment designation. When the arrangement of each segment does not change with time it is preferable to create a designation window indicating the arrangement of the display region for the segments in advance. If each display region and segment identifier is made to correlate at the segment designation window it is possible to specify the segment identifier based on the designated display region. When the arrangement of the segments changes with time it is possible to read out coordinates indicating the display regions for the segments from the correlation table . It is then possible to display the arrangement of the segments at the segment designation window based on the read in coordinates and it is possible to specify the segment identifiers based on the designated display region.

The confirmation window and segment designation window displayed by the log extracting unit are not limited to these examples. The log extracting unit can also display for example a still image serving as the predetermined notification indicating a malfunction the confirmation window and the segment designation window as shown in .

Returning to the log display unit receives the extracted log information from the log extracting unit for output and display at the display .

Referring to and the log display unit extracts records including at least the designated segment identifier from the log information stored in the log DB and displays the extracted records. is an example of displaying some of a plurality of records including designated segment identifiers. is an example of displaying the newest record containing the specified segment identifier. Further the log display unit can also display all of the records containing at least the specified segment identifier.

In this example the log display unit extracts records based on the specified segment identifier. It is possible to selectively extract just log information for the designated segments by extracting records using the segment identifier as a search key. In the example in the log display unit displays time priority level history segment identifier and content identifier of each of the extracted records in order of newest. When the More button is selected in and older log information is displayed.

In step S to S the log extracting unit displays the confirmation window shown in at the display S and receives an instruction as to whether or not to display the log information S . For example when the operation unit refer to is a remote controller display of the confirmation window is designated as a result of pressing down of a predetermined button provided at the remote controller. When Yes is selected at the confirmation window i.e. when it is selected to display log information step S is proceeded to. When No is selected at the confirmation window this processing ends.

In step S to S the log extracting unit displays the segment designation window shown in S and awaits the designation of the segment identifier S . For example before displaying the segment designation window the log extracting unit refers to the correlation table and reads out at least the segment identifiers. The log extracting unit then displays the segment designation window based on the read out information. When the segment identifier is designated step S is proceeded to. For example when the operation unit refer to is a remote controller the segment identifier designation takes place as a result of the user pressing down a predetermined button provided at the remote controller.

In step S the log extracting unit extracts records including the specified segment identifier from the log information stored in the log DB for output to the log display unit

In step S the log display unit receives the records extracted by the log extracting unit and outputs log information at the display . The log display unit can display some of the information for records containing the segment identifier as shown in or can display only the newest records containing the segment identifier designated as shown in . Further the log display unit can also display all of the records containing at least a specified segment identifier.

In step S to S when there are records of the extracted records that have not yet been displayed S the log display unit displays the not yet displayed records based on the user instructions S S . For example there are cases where the More button in and is pressed down. When there is an explicit designation from the user after displaying all or some of the extracted records S S this processing ends. For example there are cases where the Return button is pressed at the log window of and .

According to the first embodiment the log information that is the content output history is generated so as to include at least segment information that identifies a segment and content information that identifies a content. The multimedia terminal receives a designation of the segment information by the user and selectively extracts log information containing the specified segment information from the log DB for output to the display . When the contents are outputted in parallel at a plurality of segments respectively the user can refer to log information for the content outputted at the desired segment selectively from within a vast amount of log information.

In a second embodiment the log extracting unit of the multimedia terminal extracts log information based on content information that identifies a content. Other aspects of the configuration of the second embodiment are the same as for the first embodiment. In the second embodiment the content information is referred to as a content identifier.

Referring to the log extracting unit displays a list of content identifiers that are currently being outputted and receives a designation for any of the content identifiers. In this example the situation is shown where content identifier movie A is designated. Before displaying the content designation window the log extracting unit refers to the correlation table and reads out the content identifiers. If a description is given using the correlation table shown in if the current time is between 8 00 to 9 30 the content identifiers movie A test A and picture A can be read out. Further if for example the current time is between 9 30 to 10 00 the content identifiers movie A test A and picture B can be read out. The log extracting unit displays a list of the content identifiers based on the read out information and receives a designation for any of the content identifiers. The content designation window displayed by the log extracting unit is by no means limited to this example.

Referring to the log extracting unit can also display a still image that combines the confirmation window and the content designation window .

According to the second embodiment the multimedia terminal generates the log information that is the content output history so as to include at least segment information that identifies a segment and content information that identifies a content. The multimedia terminal receives a designation of the content information from the user and selectively extracts log information including the specified content information from the log DB for output to the display . It is therefore possible for the user to selectively refer to the desired log information from a vast amount of log information even when a plurality of contents are outputted in parallel at a plurality of segments.

In a third embodiment the log extracting unit of the multimedia terminal extracts log information based on time information that indicates when the log information is generated in addition to segment information that identifies a segment. Other aspects of the configuration of the third embodiment are the same as for the first embodiment.

Referring to the log extracting unit receives a designation for the time information that indicates when the log information is generated. The time designation window can be displayed for example after designating the segment at the segment designation window shown in . Here the case is considered where the log extracting unit displays the time designation window after the segment Seg001 is designated. In at the time designation window a situation is shown where 8 30 to 9 00 is designated as the time when the log information is generated. For example when the operation unit refer to is a remote controller the time information designation takes place as a result of the user pressing down a predetermined button provided at the remote controller. The time designation window displayed by the log extracting unit is not limited to this example and can also be a screen enabling selection of time information for the log information.

The log extracting unit extracts records of log information generated between 8 30 and 9 00 that include the segment identifier Seg001 from within the log information of the log DB . shows an example of a log window displayed by the log display unit . Referring to the log display unit outputs log information based on the extracted records and displays the log information at the display .

In this example the log extracting unit extracts log information based on the segment information and the time information that indicates when the log information is generated but can also extract log information based on the content information that identifies a content and the time information that indicates when the log information is generated. In this case the log extracting unit can display the time designation window after the content is designated at the content designation window shown in .

According to the third embodiment the log extracting unit of the multimedia terminal receives designations for segment information that identifies a segment or content information that identifies a content and time information that indicates when the log information is generated. It is then possible to selectively extract log information from the log DB based on this information. The multimedia terminal can then selectively extract log information for the content for a time desired by the user by receiving designations not only for segment information or content information but also for the time information that indicates when the log information is generated.

In a fourth embodiment in addition to a designation of the segment the log extracting unit of the multimedia terminal receives a designation of the content being outputted or the outputted content at the designated segment. Other aspects of the configuration of the fourth embodiment are the same as for the first embodiment.

In addition to the segment identifier and the content identifier the log extracting unit reads out the output time of the content from the correlation table . The log extracting unit receives designations of the segment identifier and the content identifier based on the read out information. In this example a designation of a segment is received and then a designation for either of contents that are being outputted or contents that were outputted at the received segment is received.

Referring to and it is also possible to display the content designation window for example after a segment is designated at the segment designation window shown in . In this example the content identifiers of the contents being outputted or that were outputted at the designated segment Seg001 are then displayed in the new order. The case is considered here where for example the content movie Z is designated. The log extracting unit extracts records that include the segment Seg001 and the content movie Z from within the log information of the log DB . The log display unit outputs log information based on the extracted records and displays the log information at the display . As a result the user is able to refer to the log information not just of a content currently being outputted but also of a content outputted in the past every segment.

The log extracting unit can also receive a designation of for example a segment identifier and output time that is the time of outputting the content and extract a record from within the log information for the log DB . Further for example a designation of a content identifier is received. It is then possible to extract the log information by receiving a designation of a segment identifier from the log information including the received content identifier . Moreover it is also possible that a plurality of output time is displayed for the same content identifier and a designation of any of the output time is received. The user is then capable of selectively looking at the log information for a content displayed at a certain segment using the content output time.

The log extracting unit is further capable of selecting log information passed over to the log display unit using the priority level . For example it is also possible to extract log information having a priority level of error . It is also possible to extract log information that is a combination of the priority level and the segment identifier the content identifier and or the output time .

In the fourth embodiment the log extracting unit for the multimedia terminal extracts log information based on a combination of the segment identifier the content identifier the output time and or the priority level . The multimedia terminal is also capable of selectively displaying just log information for the desired content outputted at the designated segment by receiving designations for the segment identifier and the content identifier even in cases where successively different contents are outputted at a certain segment.

Similarly the multimedia terminal is also capable of selectively displaying portions of the log information corresponding to designated output time by receiving not only a designation for the segment identifier but also a designation of output time of a content even when the same content or successively different contents is are outputted at the same segment.

It is also possible to further selectively extract and display portions of log information corresponding to a designated output time from log information corresponding to a designated segment identifier or log information corresponding to a designated content identifier even in cases where the same content is continuously outputted at the same segment. This is achieved by the multimedia terminal receiving designations for the segment identifier or content identifier and the output time .

Further it is also possible for the multimedia terminal to selectively display only important log information for example log information regarding system damage or hardware damage using the priority level. The multimedia terminal is also capable of selectively displaying log information desired by the user. This is achieved by receiving designations for appropriate combinations of segment identifier content identifier and or output time at the priority level and extracting the log information.

In a fifth embodiment the multimedia terminal performs output of the log information without an output designation by the user via the operation unit . In the fifth embodiment the log extracting unit specifies either of the segment identifier or the content identifier based on the priority level contained in the log information. Log information including any of the specified segment identifier and the content identifier is then extracted. Other aspects of the configuration of the fifth embodiment are the same as for the first embodiment.

The log extracting unit for example refers to the log DB at predetermined time intervals and determines whether or not a record including a predetermined priority level or higher is included. When records including a predetermined priority level or higher are present the log extracting unit classifies these records based on either of the segment identifiers or the content identifiers. The log extracting unit can also refer to the log DB at a predetermined time.

The log display unit outputs the log window shown as examples in and for each of segments to display at the display . In addition to the priority level other information contained in the extracted log information such as for example a segment identifier or a content identifier is displayed in the log window. In addition to the priority level it is also preferable to display at least one of the segment identifier or the content identifier. Further it is also preferable to display a log window for each of contents.

According to the fifth embodiment the log extracting unit of the multimedia terminal refers to the log DB and extracts log information including a predetermined priority level and higher. The log display unit then displays the segment identifier and content identifier contained in this log information at the display together with the priority level of the extracted log information. As a result it is possible to extract log information desired by the user from a vast amount of log information for display at the display without waiting for the user to make a log information output designation by setting which information is to be outputted in advance in addition to the desired priority level.

In a sixth embodiment content outputted from the multimedia terminal can include for example not just video sequences still images and text but also audio data. Further the output destination for the content can include not just the display but also a speaker . Other aspects of the configuration of the sixth embodiment are the same as for the first embodiment.

Referring to a display region defined by coordinates x y is allocated to the segments Seg011 Seg012 and content that can be identified visually such as video sequences is correlated. The speaker is allocated to the segment Seg013 and the content of the audio data is correlated.

Referring to this screen has a dual function as a confirmation window for confirming the intention of the user as to whether or not to look at log information at the same time as notification of a malfunction and a segment designation window that receives a segment designation. The flow of the screen transition and processing after the segment is designated is the same as for the first embodiment.

When a malfunction occurs in the content output for the audio data notification can be given of the occurrence of malfunction using a predetermined notification sound. In this event the confirmation window exemplified in is displayed in response to a predetermined user input. It is then possible to display log information in response to a segment designation by then executing the same processing as in the first embodiment.

Further in this example the segment is specified in order to extract log information but it is also possible to specify a content. In this case the same processing as in the second embodiment is executed. Records including a designated content identifier are then extracted. Some or all of the records or the newest information is then displayed at the display .

According to the sixth embodiment it is also possible to allocate segment information for identifying a segment not only to content that can be detected visually but also to audio data that does not have an output region at the display . The multimedia terminal receives a designation for content information that identifies audio content and or a designation for segment information that identifies a speaker from the user. It is then possible to selectively extract log information containing specified information from the log DB for output at the display . It is therefore possible for the user to selectively refer to log information for audio data outputted at a desired segment from within a vast amount of log information not just for contents that can be confirmed visually such as video sequences still images and text but also for when audio data that cannot be confirmed visually is outputted in parallel at each of segments.

 A In the first embodiment the case of the multimedia terminal acquiring content from the server is shown but does not have to be the case as long as it is possible to acquire the content from the multimedia terminal . For example the content can be stored in a storage region within the multimedia terminal or can be stored in an external storage device. Further the content can also be stored on a content database that can be accessed from a multimedia terminal via a network or can be stored on other network resources.

 B In the first embodiment the case of the multimedia terminal outputs the contents distributed from only one server to the display is shown but the multimedia terminal can output the contents distributed from a plurality of the servers to the display . For example the multimedia terminal connects to a plurality of the servers and acquires different contents from each of the servers to output to the display . Further the multimedia terminal can be provided with a display and or an operation unit.

 C The multimedia terminal can be any terminal that can output a plurality of contents to corresponding segments. The multimedia terminal can also be a terminal that can output a plurality of contents to corresponding segments at corresponding times. For example use as an information terminal for automatically playing back descriptive images for exhibitions and lessons in art galleries museums tutoring schools etc. is also possible. These can also be unitary image playback devices such as for example DVD playback devices.

 D The timing of the output of log information of the present invention is not limited to the case where malfunction occurs in the content output. For example it is also possible for the log display unit to receive a designation for displaying the segment designation window or the content designation window at any time via the operation unit refer to . In cases where it is wished to is referred to log information regardless of the occurrence of malfunction in the content output the user can easily refer to the log information by designating any of a segment and a content that is wished to be referred to.

 E A computer program that can execute the above method on a computer and a computer readable recording medium recorded with this program are included within the range of the present invention. For example a flexible disc a hard disc a CD ROM an MO a DVD a DVD ROM a DVD RAM a BD Blu ray Disc and a semiconductor memory can be given as computer readable recording media.

This computer program is not limited to being recorded on a recording medium and can also be transmitted via an electrical communication line a wireless or wired communication line or via a network typified by the Internet etc.

 F In the first to fifth embodiments the contents that can be visually detected such as video sequences still images and text can also further include data that can be detected by ear such as audio etc. In this event it is possible for a speaker at a certain output device to be a segment.

