---

title: Insensitive rocket motor
abstract: There is disclosed a solid fuel rocket motor including a center-perforated solid fuel grain. The solid fuel grain may be adapted to burn outwardly from a center surface facing the center perforation when ignited by a primary igniter during a normal mode of operation. The solid fuel grain may be further adapted to burn longitudinally from an end face when ignited by a secondary igniter during a safety mode of operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08191351&OS=08191351&RS=08191351
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 08191351
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081030
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. N00024 00 C 5390 between the United States Department of the Navy and Raytheon Company.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. This patent document may show and or describe matter which is or may become trade dress of the owner. The copyright and trade dress owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright and trade dress rights whatsoever.

Solid fuel rocket motors are commonly used in various configurations to propel rockets and missiles. Small solid fuel rocket motors may also be used to control the attitude and steering of a missile rocket or other projectile.

In some circumstances a rocket motor may be designed to have an optimum expansion ratio such that the nozzle exit pressure and the ambient pressure are equal. In this case the thrust or force produced by a rocket motor is due to the momentum thrust only and is given by the equation 2 

Thus the propellant surface area Ais one of the factors that may be used to control the thrust produced by a solid fuel rocket.

Insensitive munitions are munitions that minimize the probably of inadvertent ignition or detonation and which minimize the severity of collateral damage to weapons platforms other equipment and personnel if inadvertent ignition should occur. Specifically an insensitive rocket motor is a motor that does not react more violently than burning when subjected to slow or fast heating fragment bullet spall or shaped charge impact or detonation of an adjacent similar motor. Requirements for insensitive munitions are generally described in MIL STD 2105B Hazard Assessment Test for Non Nuclear Ordinance. Specific test requirements are described in NATO STANAG Standardization Agreement documents.

Of particular interest for this patent are the fast cookoff and slow cookoff tests defined in STANAG 4240 and STANAG 4382. A fast cookoff test is intended to simulate an accidental fire aboard a ship or in an ammunition storage facility. During a fast cookoff test the ordinance under test is suspended above a pool of burning aviation fuel. In a slow cookoff test the temperature of the ordinance is increased at a rate of 3.3 C. per hour until a reaction occurs. To minimize the test time the test may be started at a temperature 55 C. below the anticipated ignition temperature of the ordinance. In either test the most severe reaction allowed is burning. In the case of a rocket motor it is permissible for the fuel within the motor to burn but the motor may not produce thrust sufficient to allow the rocket to launch.

Insensitive rocket motors generally include a propellant material that does not ignite due to the impact of a bullet fragment or shaped charge. Insensitive rocket motors generally also include some method to control the pressure within the rocket motor to prevent detonation and to limit the thrust produced by the rocket motors. A known way to limit the pressure within rocket motors is to include vents or other forms of pressure relief that are activated by high temperature or fire external to the rocket motor.

Throughout this description elements appearing in figures other than graphs are assigned three digit reference designators where the most significant digit is the figure number and the two least significant digits are specific to the element. An element that is not described in conjunction with a figure may be presumed to have the same characteristics and function as a previously described element having a reference designator with the same least significant digits.

Referring now to the schematic cross section view of a conventional rocket motor typically includes a case a solid fuel propellant charge a nozzle and an igniter . The solid fuel propellant charge is commonly termed the grain and this term will be used within this description. Note that the term grain is used to describe the propellant charge as a whole but does not refer to the weight of the propellant charge the particle size of the material composing the propellant charge or the surface texture of the propellant charge.

In order to increase the surface area of the grain to provide higher thrust a longitudinal cavity commonly termed a center perforation is often formed in the grain . The longitudinal cavity is typically centered on the longitudinal axis of the case . Once the grain is ignited by the igniter the burning area can rapidly spread to include the entire surface of the longitudinal cavity and in some cases the end of the grain proximate to the nozzle . A grain with a longitudinal opening such as grain with a longitudinal cavity is commonly termed a center perforated grain or an inside burning grain .

The igniter is usually a small charge of flammable material that when burned releases a predetermined amount of hot combustion gases. The combustion of the igniter can be initiated for example by an electric current flowing through a heater wire not shown adjacent to or embedded in the flammable igniter material. In order to ignite the grain the temperature and pressure of the gases produced by the igniter must both exceed predetermined values required to ensure ignition of the grain .

Since the ignition of the grain starts at the end proximate to the igniter and then proceeds along the length of the center perforation the center perforation is often tapered slightly not shown to maintain a relatively constant burning surface area as the grain is consumed. The center perforations of known rocket motors have had circular cross sections keyhole shaped cross sections star shaped cross sections finocyl cross sections slots extending radially from a circular center or other cross sectional shapes.

Referring now to the schematic cross section view of an insensitive rocket motor may include a case a grain having a center perforation a nozzle and a primary igniter . These components may function essentially as described with respect to the conventional rocket motor . The insensitive rocket motor may include an inhibitor disposed on a center surface of the grain facing the center perforation . The insensitive rocket motor may also include a secondary igniter disposed at or near an end surface of the grain adjacent to the nozzle .

The grain may be any solid fuel propellant material. The grain may be for example a composite propellant material such as a hydroxl terminated polybutadiene HTPD binder containing ammonium perchlorate oxidizer particles and aluminum fuel particles. The grain may be for further example a double base propellant material composed primarily of nitroglycerine and nitrocellulose.

The inhibitor may be one or more coatings or layers of slow burning or nonburning materials that inhibit ignition of the underlying grain surface when the grain is ignited by the secondary igniter but do not appreciably inhibit ignition of the grain by the primary igniter. To perform this function the inhibitor may be or may include a material that provides thermal insulation at lower temperatures and that burns vaporizes decomposes or is otherwise removed when directly exposed to the hot gases produced by the combustion of the primary igniter or the grain . The inhibitor may cover the entire center surface of the grain as is shown in . To ensure that the primary igniter reliably ignites the grain a portion of the surface adjacent to the primary igniter may not be covered by the inhibitor as is shown in .

To reliably perform the required function over the lift of a rocket motor the inhibitor needs to be chemically and mechanically stable even after prolonged exposed to the anticipated highest ambient temperature for the rocket motor. Further to avoid potential degradation of the rocket motor during prolonged storage the inhibitor needs to be chemically compatible with the grain . Additionally to perform the required function the inhibitor needs to adhere to the grain after high and low temperature excursions and shock vibration and other mechanical stresses. The inhibitor may be a soft or flexible material that will not crack during coating handling or temperature excursions.

Suitable materials for the inhibitor may include a polymeric rubber material such as ethylene propylene diene monomer rubber EPDM or hydroxyl functionalized polybutadiene rubber a polymer material such polyurethane PU or another material. The inhibitor may include a plurality of layers or material such as for example a thermal insulating layer coupled to the surface of the grain by an adhesion layer. One or more layers of the inhibitor may include a filler material or additives that control the rate at which the inhibitor burns vaporizes decomposes or is otherwise removed from the surface of the grain . The filler material or additives may include an energetic material that increases the burn rate of the inhibitor .

The inhibitor may function as a thermal insulator that inhibits ignition of the surface of the grain by insulating the grain from the heat of the hot gases produced by combustion of other portions of the grain . One or more layers of the inhibitor may include a filler material or additives that control the thermal conductivity of inhibitor to control the rate at which the surface of the grain ignites.

The inhibitor may be applied to the center surface of the grain by painting dipping spraying adhesive bonding casting or other application method. The thickness of the inhibitor may depend on the inhibitor material composition and application method. The thickness of the inhibitor may be sufficient to perform the function of preventing or delaying ignition of the surface of the grain covered by the inhibitor. A thickness of 2.5 to 3.0 millimeters may be appropriate for an inhibitor layer consisting of a foam material such as polyurethane foam. A thickness of about 1.0 millimeter may be appropriate for a rubber material painted onto the surface of the grain . In the case of inhibitors including multiple layers the layers may be of different thickness and may be applied by the same or different methods.

The primary igniter may be a conventional solid fuel rocket motor igniter. The primary igniter may be for example primarily composed of Boron Potassium Nitrate BKNO3 or Zinc Potassium Perchlorate ZPP . The primary igniter may be triggered by an electrical impulse sent through a heater wire within or adjacent to the igniter material.

The grain may spontaneously ignite if the rocket motor is heated to a temperature of 160 C. to 190 C. during a slow cookoff or fast cookoff test. Spontaneous ignition of the grain may result in rapid combustion of the grain material producing a high level of thrust or possible detonation of the rocket motor.

To avoid spontaneous ignition of the grain the secondary igniter may be adapted to ignite at a predetermined temperature to controllably burn at least a substantial portion of the grain before the temperature of the entire grain reaches the spontaneous ignition temperature. The secondary igniter may be for example an intermetallic thermal sensor such as the intermetallic thermal sensors described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 466 537 and 7 377 690. The secondary igniter may be another type of thermal sensor effective to ignite the grain . The ignition temperature of the secondary igniter may be substantially below the spontaneous ignition temperature of the grain. The ignition temperature of the secondary igniter may be substantially higher than the highest anticipated ambient temperature which may be up to 85 C. for the rocket motor under normal storage and use conditions. For example the ignition temperature of the secondary igniter may be from 115 C. to 140 C. Once the temperature of the secondary igniter increases to its ignition temperature the secondary igniter may initiate a controlled slow burn of the grain .

To ignite the insensitive rocket motor in the normal mode of operation the primary igniter may be fired by an electric current or other mechanism. The primary igniter may produce hot combustion gases . The hot combustion gases may impinge upon the inhibitor coating . The hot combustion gases may impinge upon a portion of the surface of the grain which lacks an inhibitor coating. The primary igniter the grain and the inhibitor coating may be adapted such that the hot combustion gases rapidly remove the inhibitor coating from a portion of the center surface .

The hot combustion gases may ignite at least a portion of the surface of the solid fuel grain which did not have an inhibitor coating or where the inhibitor coating has been removed. Once ignited the solid fuel grain may burn in a direction orthogonal to the burning surface as indicated by solid arrows . The ignited portion of the surface of the solid fuel grain may produce additional combustion gases which together with the gases produce by the primary igniter flow longitudinally through the center perforation as indicated by arrows to the nozzle. Due to the flow of hot combustion gases along the center surface of the solid fuel grain the inhibitor layer may be rapidly removed from the entire area of the center surface and the entire center surface may be ignited.

The time required to remove the inhibitor coating from the center surface may slightly delay the ignition of the rocket motor . This delay may be offset at least in part by using a larger or more energetic primary igniter .

To ignite the insensitive rocket motor in the safety mode of operation the secondary igniter may ignite in response to externally applied heat. The ignition of the secondary igniter may produce hot combustion gases . The hot combustion gases may flow out of the rocket motor through the nozzle as indicated by open arrows . Since the secondary igniter may be disposed within the rocket motor proximate to the nozzle the hot combustion gases produced by the secondary igniter may not flow longitudinally through the center perforation . Thus the hot combustion gases may not be effective to remove the inhibitor coating from the center surface of the solid fuel grain .

The hot combustion gases may also ignite at least a portion of the end surface of the solid fuel grain. Once ignited the solid fuel grain may burn in a direction orthogonal to the burning end surface as indicated by solid arrows . The ignited portion of the end surface may produce additional combustion gases which may also flow through the nozzle. Since hot combustion gases do not flow along the center surface of the solid fuel grain the inhibitor layer may remain in place and prevent all or most of the center surface from igniting.

The thrust resulting from the hot combustion gases exiting through the nozzle may be substantially less than the thrust produced in a normal mode of operation as described in conjunction with and . Combining equations 1 and 2 the momentum thrust produced by a rocket motor is given by the equation 4 

Consideration of and shows that the burning surface area in a safety mode of operation may be substantially less than the burning surface area in a normal mode of operation. For typically solid fuel grain geometries the burning surface area in the safety mode of operation may be less than 10 of the burning surface area in the normal mode of operation. The reduction in burning surface area of itself would reduce the thrust of a rocket motor proportionally. However the reduction in burning surface area may also reduce the rate of production of combustion gases and thus may reduce the pressure within the rocket motor. Reduced pressure within the motor may result in both a reduction in propellant burn rate and a reduction in the gas velocity at the nozzle exit plane. All of these factors may compound to reduce the thrust produced by the rocket motor in the safety mode of operation.

In some circumstances such as long small diameter rocket motors burning the solid fuel grain from an end may subject the case and nozzle of the rocket motor to prolonged high temperatures and may lead to thermal failure of the case and or nozzle. To prevent thermal failures the thickness and or composition of the inhibitor may be selected to control the total time required to burn the grain . Shortening the total burn time may result in an increase in thrust produced when the rocket motor is burned in the safety mode of operation. The thickness and or composition of the inhibitor may be selected as a compromise between the thrust produced and the thermal stresses on the case and nozzle when the rocket motor is burned in the safety mode of operation.

Comparison of the solid line and the dashed line shows that the thrust and total impulse integral of thrust over time produced by the two motors are essentially the same. The time delay from ignition until each motor produces 90 pounds 400 Newtons of force is about 100 milliseconds for the motor without an inhibitor solid line and 250 milliseconds for the motor having an inhibitor layer dashed line . The relatively slower ignition of the motor having an inhibitor layer may be due to the gradual removal of the inhibitor layer along the length of the rocket motor.

The solid line shows that the experimental rocket motor produces in the normal mode of operation about 100 pounds of thrust for 3.5 seconds as shown in . The dashed line shows that the experimental rocket motor burns in the safety mode of operation for 115 seconds and produces less than 5 pounds of thrust.

The experimental data of demonstrates that the combination of an inhibitor layer and an aft end secondary igniter can be effective to greatly increase the burn time of a rocket motor ignited during a fast or slow cookoff test. The increase in burn time may result in a corresponding reduction in the thrust produced by the motor. Further the experimental data of shows that the improvement in rocket motor performance during a fast or slow cookoff test can be achieved with little impact on the motor performance during normal operation.

Throughout this description the embodiments and examples shown should be considered as exemplars rather than limitations on the apparatus and procedures disclosed or claimed. Although many of the examples presented herein involve specific combinations of method acts or system elements it should be understood that those acts and those elements may be combined in other ways to accomplish the same objectives. With regard to flowcharts additional and fewer steps may be taken and the steps as shown may be combined or further refined to achieve the methods described herein. Acts elements and features discussed only in connection with one embodiment are not intended to be excluded from a similar role in other embodiments.

For means plus function limitations recited in the claims the means are not intended to be limited to the means disclosed herein for performing the recited function but are intended to cover in scope any means known now or later developed for performing the recited function.

As used herein whether in the written description or the claims the terms comprising including carrying having containing involving and the like are to be understood to be open ended i.e. to mean including but not limited to. Only the transitional phrases consisting of and consisting essentially of respectively are closed or semi closed transitional phrases with respect to claims.

Use of ordinal terms such as first second third etc. in the claims to modify a claim element does not by itself connote any priority precedence or order of one claim element over another or the temporal order in which acts of a method are performed but are used merely as labels to distinguish one claim element having a certain name from another element having a same name but for use of the ordinal term to distinguish the claim elements.

As used herein and or means that the listed items are alternatives but the alternatives also include any combination of the listed items.

