---

title: Integrated process for preparing a carboxylic acid from an alkane
abstract: The present invention relates to an integrated process for producing unsaturated carboxylic acids from the corresponding C-Calkane. The process begins with performance of thermally integrated dehydrogenation reactions which convert a C-Calkane to its corresponding C-Calkene, and which involve exothermically converting a portion of an alkane to its corresponding alkene by oxidative dehydrogenation in an exothermic reaction zone, in the presence of oxygen and a suitable catalyst, and then feeding the products of the exothermic reaction zone to an endothermic reaction zone wherein at least a portion of the remaining unconverted alkane is endothermically dehydrogenated to form an additional quantity of the same corresponding alkene, in the presence of carbon dioxide and an other suitable catalyst. The alkene products of the thermally integrated dehydrogenation reactions are then provided to a catalytic vapor phase partial oxidation process for conversion of the alkene to the corresponding unsaturated carboxylic acid or nitrile. Unreacted alkene and carbon dioxide are recovered from the oxidation product stream and recycled back to the thermally integrated dehydrogenation reactions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08080686&OS=08080686&RS=08080686
owner: Rohm and Haas Company
number: 08080686
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081211
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 009 118 filed on Dec. 26 2007.

This invention was made with Government support under Instrument No. DE FC36 O4GO14272 awarded by the United States Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to an integrated process for preparing a carboxylic acid from its corresponding alkane utilizing an energy efficient catalyzed dehydrogenation step to produce the corresponding alkene followed by partial oxidation of the alkene to produce the carboxylic acid.

Well known commercial processes for the production of monomers such as unsaturated carboxylic acids and unsaturated nitriles typically start with one or more alkenes and convert them by catalytic vapor phase oxidation to the desired monomer products. In view of the pressures exerted by competition in the industry and the price difference between alkanes and their corresponding alkenes such as propane and propene respectively efforts are being made to develop processes in which an alkane is used as the starting material to ultimately produce the desired monomers at a lower overall cost.

One process modification which has enjoyed some success in commercial industry is to simply add an upstream reaction stage in which an alkane is first converted to the corresponding alkene in the presence of a suitable catalyst. The resulting alkene e.g. propene is then fed to the customary oxidation reaction stages for oxidation of the alkene e.g. first to acrolein and then to the desired monomer product as in the two step oxidation of propene to form acrylic acid . For example both European Patent Application No. EP0117146 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 705 684 describe multi stage catalytic processes for converting an alkane propane to the corresponding unsaturated carboxylic acid acrylic acid which includes an initial alkane to alkene conversion stage having one or more suitable catalysts to produces a product stream comprising alkene which is fed to one or more downstream oxidation stages. Various catalysts and methods are known to catalyze conversion of alkanes to their corresponding alkenes.

For example mixed metal oxide catalysts having as essential elements Mo Sb W or Cr Sb W and at least one metal selected from the group consisting of V Nb K Mg Sn Fe Co and Ni were shown to be useful for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to produce propene in single pass yields of greater than 10 U.S. Pat. No. 6 239 325 . A Pd Cu Mn catalyst on zirconium oxide support also catalyzed the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane with selectivities to ethane in the range of 70 80 and diminished coke formation US Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0124840 . Furthermore oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane in the presence of an Mo V Te Nb based mixed metal oxide catalyst has been shown to produce ethene in yields as high as 50 and in one case even greater than 60 US Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0085678 . A vanadium aluminum based mixed metal oxide catalyst with or without one or more additional metal oxides of Cr Zn Fe and Mg is known to be capable of catalyzing the conversion of propane n butane isobutane isopentane to their corresponding alkenes in the presence of oxygen to achieve relatively high alkene selectivities while minimizing the formation of coke and thereby minimizing the need for catalyst regeneration U.S. Pat. No. 4 046 833 . Zhaorigetu et al. 1996 demonstrated that oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over an unsupported vanadium based catalyst promoted with one or more rare earth metals La Ce Pr Sm and Er could be enhanced by providing carbon dioxide in addition to oxygen to the reaction zone Zhaorigetu B. Kieffer R. Hinderman J. P. Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane on Rare Earth Vanadates. Influence of the Presence of CO2 in the feed. 1996 101 1049 1058 .

Since it is exothermic when an oxidative dehydrogenation process is operated continuously excess heat must be continuously removed which increases capital and operating expenditures. Another disadvantage of oxidative dehydrogenation is that selectivity to alkene tends to decrease when the process is operated at higher commercially useful alkane conversion rates. Thus in practice these processes tend to be operated at lower conversion rates well below 100 which limits their product yield capacity and generally renders them economically unsuitable for use in commercial scale processes.

Other catalysts are known to catalyze the endothermic dehydrogenation of an alkane in the presence of a weak oxidant such as steam or carbon dioxide to form the corresponding alkene. Some endothermic dehydrogenation catalysts perform better in the absence of oxygen while others tolerate the presence of minor amounts of oxygen along with the weak oxidant without significant loss of activity. Supported vanadium based catalysts promoted with Li Na K or Mg have been shown to dehydrogenate ethylbenzene in the presence of a soft oxidant i.e. carbon dioxide to produce styrene with selectivities of about 98 99 in the absence of oxygen Li X. H. Li W. Y. Xie K. C. Supported Vanadia Catalysts for Dehydrogenation of Ethylbenzene with CO2 December 2005 Vol. 105 Nos. 3 4 . Carbon dioxide was provided in varying amounts by Dury et al. in 2002 to the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to form propene in the presence of nickel molybdenum based catalysts and found to increase conversion by about 18 28 but decrease selectivity Dury F. Gaigneaux E. M. Ruiz P. The Active Role of CO2 at Low Temperature in Oxidation Processes The Case of the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane on NiMoO4 catalysts 242 2003 187 203 . Dury et al. demonstrated that contrary to the traditional expectation that carbon dioxide is inert in dehydrogenation reactions carbon dioxide actively participates in the dehydrogenation of propane even in the absence of oxygen. Takehira et al. tested the activities of various metal oxide catalysts Cr Ga Ni V Fe Mn and Co supported on silicon containing support materials including mesoporous MCM 41 Cab O Sil and silicon oxide and found that the Cr based catalyst supported on MCM 41 provided the best results for dehydrogenation of propane in the presence of carbon dioxide to form propene. Takehira K. Oishi Y. Shishido T. Kawabata T. Takaki K. Zhang O. and Wang Y. CO2 Dehydrogenation of Propane over Cr MCM 41 Catalyst 2004 153 323 328.

Obviously endothermic dehydrogenation processes require addition of heat to the process. They typically involve burning i.e. combusting a hydrocarbon fuel often different than the alkane to be dehydrogenated with oxygen in a furnace or other vessel resulting in increased costs due to increased initial capital investment and ongoing fuel consumption.

European Patent Application Publication No. EP 1112241 EP 241 describes a process designed to address this issue. Rather than burning a separate fuel to produce heat the disclosed process involves combusting a portion of the alkane which is to be dehydrogenated with oxygen in the presence of a suitable combustion catalyst to produce a heated stream containing the products of combustion i.e. carbon oxides and water unconsumed oxygen and unconsumed alkane. The heated stream is fed directly to an endothermic catalytic dehydrogenation reaction stage where the unreacted alkane is converted to the corresponding alkene in the presence of a suitable dehydrogenation catalyst.

More recently International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2004 054945 WO 945 provides an improvement to the aforesaid two stage exothermic endothermic process which eliminates the need for the combustion catalyst by substituting an ignition source such as a pilot flame or a spark ignition and burning a portion of the alkane to produce a heated stream comprising unreacted alkane and either products of combustion i.e. carbon oxides water and heat or synthesis gas i.e. carbon monoxide and hydrogen .

Thus in the processes of both EP 241 and WO 945 the need to burn a separately provided hydrocarbon fuel to preheat the alkane feed is avoided. However a portion of the alkane reactant is consumed which leaves less available for conversion to the desired product in the dehydrogenation stage. Furthermore products of combustion are incidentally formed which increases the amount of unwanted by products without any contribution to the quantity of the desired alkene product. In fact when a portion of the alkane reactant itself is burned as taught by these sources a diminished amount of alkane remains available for the dehydrogenation reaction and less of the desired alkene product is produced.

Accordingly notwithstanding the work conducted to date in this field industry continues to grapple with the aforesaid problems of increasing overall production of alkene i.e. increasing alkene selectivity and yield while minimizing the costs of dehydrogenation of lower alkanes to their corresponding alkenes. Development of an improved process and catalyst system for converting an alkane to its corresponding alkene which provide improved selectivity and yield of the desired product alkene would be welcomed by industry. It is believed that the processes and catalysts of the present invention address these needs.

The present invention provides a process for producing an unsaturated carboxylic acid or an unsaturated nitrile from the corresponding C Calkane. The process comprises A contacting a C Calkane and oxygen with an upstream catalyst in an exothermic reaction zone wherein the upstream catalyst is catalytically active for the exothermic conversion of the C Calkane to its corresponding C Calkene in the presence of oxygen and B exothermically converting a portion of the C Calkane to the corresponding C Calkene in the exothermic reaction zone to produce a heated mixed product gas which comprises the corresponding C Calkene unreacted C Calkane and heat produced by said exothermically converting step. The process further comprises C contacting the heated mixed product gas and a weak oxidant with a downstream catalyst in an endothermic reaction zone wherein the downstream catalyst is catalytically active for the endothermic conversion of the unreacted C Calkane to the corresponding C Calkene in the presence of the weak oxidant D endothermically converting at least a portion of the unreacted C Calkane to the corresponding C Calkene in the endothermic reaction zone to produce a cumulative product stream which comprises at least the corresponding C Calkene produced in each of the reaction zones. The cumulative product stream is then E cooled and dried before F separating C Calkene unreacted C Calkane and unreacted carbon dioxide from the cooled cumulative product stream by absorption with a solvent to produce an organic rich solvent stream comprising the separated C Calkene unreacted C Calkane and unreacted carbon dioxide and a stream comprising non absorbed constituents. The C Calkene unreacted C Calkane and unreacted carbon dioxide are separated H from the organic rich solvent stream to produce a recovery stream comprising recovered C Calkene C Calkane and carbon dioxide. The recovery stream comprising the C Calkene is oxidized to produce an oxidation product stream comprising the corresponding unsaturated carboxylic acid or nitrile in the presence of at least one catalyst capable of facilitating the oxidizing reaction. The oxidation product stream is separated I to form an aqueous oxidation product stream comprising the corresponding unsaturated carboxylic acid or nitrile and a gas stream comprising unreacted C Calkane and unreacted carbon dioxide. Finally the integrated process of the present invention comprises drying the gas stream and separating the unreacted C Calkane and unreacted carbon dioxide therefrom and K recycling the separated unreacted C Calkane and unreacted carbon dioxide to the exothermic converting step.

In one embodiment the upstream catalyst comprises an oxidative dehydrogenation catalyst comprising at least one catalyst composition selected from the group consisting of A a catalyst comprising one or more noble metals selected from Pt Pd Rh Ir and Ru and B a catalyst comprising at least one oxide of a metal selected from Li Mo W V Nb Sb Sn Ga Zr Mg Mn Ni Co Ce and rare earth metals.

In one embodiment the downstream catalyst comprises an endothermic dehydrogenation catalyst comprising at least one catalyst composition selected from the group consisting of A a catalyst comprising chromium oxide and optionally oxides of at least one metal selected from the group consisting of Mo W V Ga Mg Ni Fe alkali elements alkali earth elements and rare earth elements B a catalyst comprising vanadium oxide and optionally at least one element selected from the group consisting of Li Na K and Mg C a catalyst comprising platinum and optionally at least one metal selected from the group consisting of sodium potassium cesium rhenium and tin and D a catalyst comprising at least one metal selected from the group consisting of Ga Fe Mn and Co.

In a particular embodiment of the process of the present invention the C Calkane comprises propane the corresponding C Calkene comprises propene the weak oxidant comprises carbon dioxide and the unsaturated carboxylic acid comprises acrylic acid.

In another embodiment the oxidizing step H is performed by a two step vapor phase catalytic oxidation wherein a first oxidation reaction zone comprises a first oxidation catalyst capable of catalyzing the conversion of the C Calkene to the corresponding aldehyde and a second oxidation reaction zone positioned downstream of the first oxidation reaction zone and comprising a second oxidation catalyst different from the first oxidation catalyst and capable of catalyzing the conversion of the corresponding aldehyde to the corresponding unsaturated carboxylic acids or nitriles.

In still another embodiment the unreacted C Calkane and unreacted carbon dioxide are separated from a downstream process stream by using a pressure swing absorption system and recycling the unreacted C Calkane and unreacted carbon dioxide to the exothermic reaction zone.

The present invention provides a process for producing unsaturated carboxylic acids from the corresponding C Calkanes and involves an exothermic oxidative dehydrogenation reaction which converts a C Calkane to its corresponding C Calkene and produces heat and a downstream endothermic dehydrogenation reaction which receives the product stream and heat from the exothermic reaction and converts additional quantities of the C Calkane to the same corresponding C Calkene. The product C Calkene is then subjected to two stage vapor phase catalytic partial oxidation to produce the corresponding unsaturated carboxylic acids. The reactions are performed in sequence and are integrated so that the heat produced incidentally in the exothermic reaction is subsequently utilized in the endothermic dehydrogenation reaction to produce additional quantities of alkene which is then provided directly and continuously to the partial oxidation process. Operating the exothermic and endothermic dehydrogenation reactions in the integrated manner stated above minimizes the need for additional fuel and increases the overall selectivity to and yield of the product alkene which can then be provided directly to the partial oxidation reactors thereby increasing the selectivity and yield of unsaturated carboxylic acid.

The term hydrocarbon means a compound which comprises at least one carbon atom and at least one hydrogen atom.

As used herein the term Cto Calkane means a straight chain or branched chain alkane having from 2 to 4 carbons atoms per alkane molecule for example ethane propane and butane which are typically in the vapor phase at ordinary temperatures and pressures e.g. at least 10 C. and 1 atmosphere . Accordingly the term Cto Calkene means a straight chain or branched chain alkene having from 2 to 4 carbons atoms per alkene molecule for example ethane propene and butene.

The term corresponding C Calkene means the alkene having the same number of carbon atoms per alkene molecule as the alkane under discussion.

The term corresponding C Cunsaturated carboxylic acid means the unsaturated carboxylic acid having the same number of carbon atoms per carboxylic acid molecule as the starting alkene.

Furthermore as used herein the term Cto Calkanes and alkenes includes at least one of the aforesaid C Calkanes as well as its corresponding C Calkene. Similarly when used herein in conjunction with the terms Cto Calkane or Cto Calkene or Cto Calkanes and alkenes the terminology a mixture thereof means a mixture that includes at least one of the aforesaid alkanes having from 2 to 4 carbons atoms per alkane molecule and the alkene having the same number of carbons atoms per alkene molecule as the alkane under discussion for example without limitation a mixture of propane and propene or a mixture of n butane and n butene.

An inert material sometimes also referred to as a diluent is any material which is substantially inert i.e. does not participate in is unaffected by and or is inactive in the particular reaction of concern. For example nitrogen is inert in reactions that convert alkanes to their corresponding alkenes. As a more specific example nitrogen is inert in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions that produce propene from propane. In the context of catalysts where a mixed metal oxide catalyst useful in oxidation reactions is supported by a zirconium based material the zirconium based material is considered to be inert and therefore does not directly affect and is not directly affected by the oxidation reaction being catalyzed by the mixed metal oxide catalyst. Rather without being bound by theory it is believed that some support materials such as zirconium directly interact with the catalyst which in turn may affect the conversion selectivity etc. of the oxidation reaction. 

The term oxygen containing gas as used herein means any gas comprising from 0.01 up to 100 oxygen or oxygen containing compounds including for example without limitation air oxygen enriched air nitrous oxide nitrogen dioxide pure oxygen mixtures of pure oxygen or oxygen containing compounds with at least one inert gas such as nitrogen and mixtures thereof. Although the oxygen containing gas may be pure oxygen gas it is usually more economical to use an oxygen containing gas such as air when purity is not particularly required.

 Oxidative dehydrogenation as used herein means a chemical reaction in which a hydrocarbon and oxygen are reacted to result in removal of one or more hydrogen atoms from the hydrocarbon to produce oxidation products. Thus as this term is used herein oxidative dehydrogenation requires an oxygen containing gas or a gaseous oxygen containing compound to provide the required oxygen.

 Exothermic oxidative dehydrogenation as used herein means an oxidative dehydrogenation process which produces heat in addition to oxidation product compounds.

 Endothermic dehydrogenation as used herein means a chemical reaction in which one or more hydrogen atoms are removed from a hydrocarbon and which consumes heat and so requires heat to be supplied from a source outside the reaction.

Endpoints of ranges are considered to be definite and are recognized to incorporate within their tolerance other values within the knowledge of persons of ordinary skill in the art including but not limited to those which are insignificantly different from the respective endpoint as related to this invention in other words endpoints are to be construed to incorporate values about or close or near to each respective endpoint . The range and ratio limits recited herein are combinable. For example if ranges of 1 20 and 5 15 are recited for a particular parameter it is understood that ranges of 1 5 1 15 5 20 or 15 20 are also contemplated and encompassed thereby.

The process of the present invention involves sequential thermally integrated dehydrogenation reactions DH see each of which converts a particular C Calkane to the same corresponding C Calkene as well as downstream partial oxidation reactions PO see which convert the C Calkene product to corresponding unsaturated carboxylic acids. Since the thermally integrated dehydrogenation processes DH produce a greater total yield of the corresponding C Calkene with greater overall thermal efficiency than either dehydrogenation reaction alone the ultimate yield of corresponding unsaturated carboxylic acids from the subsequent partial oxidation reactions PO is also increased compared to conventional known oxidation processes for producing unsaturated carboxylic acids from the corresponding C Calkenes.

The overall integrated process as well as catalysts suitable for use therein will first be described in general. Then a more detailed description is provided of an exemplary embodiment of the present invention which is a combination of an exothermic oxidative dehydrogenation reaction and an endothermic dehydrogenation reaction for converting propane to propene followed by two stage vapor phase partial oxidation of the propene to produce unsaturated carboxylic acid i.e. acrylic acid will be provided in the examples.

Notwithstanding the specificity of the exemplary embodiments it will be appreciated and understood by persons of ordinary skill that the present invention is applicable to other types of reactions and products and is subject to modifications and alterations as necessary and desired according to the ordinary skill and general knowledge of persons practicing in the relevant art. For example the process of the present invention may be easily adapted by skilled persons to dehydrogenate a variety of hydrocarbons such as isopropane ethane and ethyl benzene.

Referring now to the schematic representation of the integrated process of the present invention provided in generally a C Calkane and oxygen are contacted with an upstream catalyst not shown per se in an exothermic reaction zone . The upstream catalyst is catalytically active for the exothermic conversion of the C Calkane to its corresponding C Calkene in the presence of oxygen. The oxygen may be supplied in the form of an oxygen containing gas as is well known by persons of ordinary skill. The C Calkane and oxygen may be supplied to the exothermic reaction zone separately and simultaneously as shown in or they may be blended together not shown and the resulting blended stream supplied to the exothermic reaction zone . One or more inert materials or diluents may also be provided to the exothermic reaction zone separately or mixed with either or both of the C Calkane and oxygen . Suitable diluents include but are not limited to nitrogen carbon dioxide noble gases and steam. The total feed composition to the exothermic reaction zone may be for example 5 50 vol alkane 2 30 vol oxygen 0 50 vol carbon dioxide and the remainder nitrogen based upon the total volume of the feed materials. Another example of a suitable feed composition for the endothermic reaction zone may be without limitation 5 20 vol alkane 2 15 vol oxygen 10 40 vol carbon dioxide and the remainder nitrogen based upon the total volume of the feed materials.

A portion of the C Calkane is exothermically converted in the exothermic reaction zone producing a heated mixed product gas comprising at least the corresponding C Calkene unreacted C Calkane and heat produced by the exothermic conversion of the aforesaid portion of the C Calkane. The heated mixed product gas may further comprise compounds including but not limited to carbon monoxide carbon dioxide other carbon containing compounds and water.

With reference still to the process of the present invention further comprises contacting the heated mixed product gas and a mild oxidant such as carbon dioxide with a downstream catalyst not shown per se in an endothermic reaction zone . The downstream catalyst is catalytically active for the endothermic conversion of the unreacted C Calkane to the same corresponding C Calkene as produced in the exothermic reaction zone . Carbon dioxide may be supplied to the endothermic reaction zone in any manner known to persons of ordinary skill in the art. For example as shown in carbon dioxide may be provided as a separate stream directly to the endothermic reaction zone simultaneously with the heated mixed product gas . Other options which are not shown here include but are not limited to blending the carbon dioxide with the heated mixed product gas before entry into the endothermic reaction zone or blending the carbon dioxide with one or more of the feed streams to the exothermic reaction zone i.e. with one or both of the C Calkane and oxygen . One or more inert materials or diluents may also be provided to the endothermic reaction zone separately or mixed with either or both of the heated mixed product gas and carbon dioxide . Suitable diluents include but are not limited to nitrogen noble gases and steam. The feed composition to the endothermic reaction zone may be for example 5 50 vol alkane 0 5 vol oxygen 10 80 vol carbon dioxide and the remainder nitrogen based upon the total volume of the feed materials. Another example of a suitable feed composition for the endothermic reaction zone may be without limitation 5 20 vol alkane 0 2 vol oxygen 20 60 vol carbon dioxide and the remainder nitrogen based upon the total volume of the feed materials.

At least a portion of the unreacted C Calkane is endothermically converted in the endothermic reaction zone to produce a cumulative product stream which comprises at least the corresponding C Calkene formed in each of the exothermic and endothermic reaction zones . The cumulative product stream may also comprise one or more of the following compounds unreacted C Calkane unreacted oxygen unreacted carbon dioxide as well as other compounds including but not limited to carbon monoxide water vapor and hydrogen. The cumulative product stream may be further processed to purify the desired corresponding C Calkene product by separating at least a portion of unreacted reactants and other compounds from the cumulative product stream . The separated unreacted reactants may be recycled back to one or both of the dehydrogenation reaction zones or otherwise used or disposed of. For example the cumulative product stream may be subjected to one or more interim treatments such as without limitation drying compression and stripping to produce an oxidation feed stream comprising at least unreacted propane propene and carbon dioxide which may then fed to partial oxidation reaction zones as described in further detail hereinafter.

Determination of the quantities and how to supply the reactant materials C Calkane oxygen carbon dioxide etc. to each of the exothermic and endothermic reaction zones is well within the ability of persons of ordinary skill in the art based upon the knowledge generally available as well as the particular reactions the desired products and the catalysts selected for use in the reaction zones. For example where carbon dioxide is expected to interfere with the performance of the selected upstream catalyst then the carbon dioxide should not be blended with the initial reactant materials C Calkane and oxygen supplied to the exothermic reaction zone but rather the carbon dioxide should be blended with the heated mixed product gas or supplied directly to the endothermic reaction zone. Conversely where it is not possible to supply the carbon dioxide to the endothermic reaction zone either directly or blended with the heated mixed product gas then an upstream catalyst should be selected which can tolerate the presence of carbon dioxide. Where the performance of the downstream catalyst would be adversely affected by the presence of oxygen the operating conditions in the oxidative reaction zone e.g. temperature and bed size may be adjusted for total consumption of the oxygen and consequently the heated mixed product gas provided to the endothermic reaction zone will be suitably oxygen free.

Catalysts suitable for use in the process of the present invention are not particularly limited and are generally known in the art. Suitable upstream and downstream catalysts are simply those which are catalytically active for the particular reaction that is to occur in each of the exothermic and endothermic reaction zones respectively.

The upstream and downstream catalysts may be prepared by any suitable method known in the art now or in the future. For example the catalyst can be prepared by incipient wetness impregnation chemical vapor deposition hydrothermal synthesis salt melt method co precipitation and other methods. As will be discussed in further detail hereinafter catalysts which are active for exothermic or endothermic conversion of C Calkanes to produce the corresponding C Calkenes typically comprise one or more metals and or metal oxides. In addition either or both of the upstream and downstream catalysts may be promoted for example with suitable metals or metal oxides.

Furthermore either or both of the upstream and downstream catalysts may further comprise support material. The catalyst materials may be applied to the support by any method known in the art and at any time including but not limited to during preparation of the catalyst material before or after calcination and even before or after addition of a promoter. Typical and suitable support materials include but are not limited to magnesium oxide zirconia stabilized zirconia zirconia stabilized alumina yttrium stabilized zirconia calcium stabilized zirconia alumina titania silica magnesia nitrides silicon carbide cordierite cordierite alpha alumina alumina silica magnesia zircon silicate magnesium silicates calcium oxide silica alumina alumina zirconia alumina ceria and combinations thereof. Additionally suitable catalyst supports may comprise rare earth metal oxides mixed metal oxides mesoporous materials refractory materials and combinations thereof. The support may be modified stabilized or pretreated in order to achieve the proper structural stability desired for sustaining the operating conditions under which the catalysts will be used.

The support can be in the shape of wire gauzes monoliths particles honeycombs rings and others. Where the support is in the form of particles the shape of the particles is not particularly limited and may include granules beads pills pellets cylinders trilobes spheres irregular shapes etc.

Monoliths typically comprise any unitary piece of material of continuous manufacture such as for example pieces of metal or metal oxide foam materials or honeycomb structures. It is known in the art that if desired a reaction zone may comprise two or more such catalyst monoliths stacked upon one another. For example the catalyst can be structured as or supported on a refractory oxide honeycomb straight channel extrudate or monolith made of cordierite or mullite or other configuration having longitudinal channels or passageways permitting high space velocities with a minimal pressure drop.

Furthermore the catalyst material may be deposited as washcoats on the monolithic support by methods known to people skilled in the art. Additionally catalyst material may be combined with the monolithic support by depositing the support material as washcoats and successively impregnating the support material washcoats with the active catalyst material such as without limitation vanadium oxide or platinum followed by calcination of the combined support and catalyst materials.

Monolithic supports may comprise stabilized zirconia PSZ foam stabilized with Mg Ca or Y or foams of alumina cordierite ceramics titania mullite zirconium stabilized alumina or mixtures thereof. Monolithic supports may also be fabricated from metals and their alloys such as for example aluminum steel fecralloy hastalloy and others known to persons skilled in the art. Additionally other refractory foam and non foam monoliths may serve as satisfactory supports. The promoter metal precursor and any base metal precursor with or without a ceramic oxide support forming component may be extruded to prepare a three dimensional form or structure such as a honeycomb foam or other suitable tortuous path or straight path structure.

As is apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art the exothermic and endothermic reaction zones may be contained in a single reactor not shown in but see which may be any suitable reactor known in the art including but not limited to a batch reactor a stirred tank reactor a continuous stirred tank reactor CSTRs a tubular reactor a shell and tube heat exchanger reactor a multiple pass reactor a reactor having microchannels a short contact time reactor a catalytic fixed bed reactor and a reactor having a combination of the foregoing features. Each reaction zone may instead be disposed within separate reactors not shown and various combinations of reactors and reaction zones may be arranged. Each reaction zone may or may not include sub zones also not shown which differ by operating temperature or catalyst composition or catalyst concentration or in other ways which are known to persons of ordinary skill. Furthermore the upstream and downstream catalysts may be configured in their respective reaction zones in any suitable arrangement including but not limited to a fixed bed a fluidized bed and a spouted bed. All such configurations are well known in the art.

As discussed in further detail hereinafter in connection with an exemplary embodiment it is within the ability of persons of ordinary skill in the relevant art to select appropriate operating conditions for each of the exothermic and endothermic reaction zones depending on the particular products desired and the reactions and catalysts selected to produce the desired product.

In an exemplary embodiment the upstream catalyst may be an oxidative dehydrogenation catalyst ODH catalyst which catalyzes the exothermic catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of a C Calkane with oxygen to produce the corresponding C Calkene and heat. Furthermore the upstream catalyst may for example be contained in a fixed bed tubular reactor.

Persons of ordinary skill will be familiar with various ODH catalysts that may be successfully used in the exothermic reaction zone in accordance with process of the present invention. Suitable categories of ODH catalysts include but are not limited to catalysts comprising one or more noble metals selected from Pt Pd Rh Ir and Ru and catalysts comprising at least one oxide of a metal selected from Li Mo W V Nb Sb Sn Ga Zr Mg Mn Ni Co Ce and rare earth metals. For example mixed metal oxide catalysts having as essential elements Mo Sb W or Cr Sb W and at least one metal selected from the group consisting of V Nb K Mg Sn Fe Co and Ni as well as vanadium aluminum based mixed metal oxide catalysts with or without one or more additional metal oxides of Nb Cr Zn Fe Mo Mg and rare earth elements and furthermore vanadium based catalysts promoted with one or more of La Ce Pr Sm and Er have all been shown to catalyze the exothermic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to form propene. In an exemplary embodiment the ODH catalyst comprises as essential materials vanadium oxide and at least one oxide of a metal selected from the group consisting of niobium magnesium molybdenum and rare earth elements As already mentioned the ODH catalysts may be supported by materials such as alumina platinum silica other metal oxides microporous materials mesoporous materials and refractory materials. For example a vanadium niobium oxide catalyst may be combined and supported on a silicon oxide support material and advantageously used in the exothermic reaction zone of the process of the present invention.

Applicants have surprisingly found that high activity ODH catalysts such as vanadium oxide based catalysts supported on certain materials such as alumina zirconia or titania as opposed to for instance silica will catalyze the exothermic ODH conversion of propane to propene better if the supported catalyst is loaded onto a monolithic carrier rather than if used alone in particulate powder form. For example a silica supported vanadium based ODH catalyst was found to provide similar performance for ODH of propane regardless of whether deposited on a cordierite monolith as washcoats or simply used in powder form having average particulate size of 300 500 microns . However surprisingly an alumina supported vanadium based catalyst composition loaded onto a cordierite monolith carrier as washcoats performed better for ODH of propane than when used in powder form also having average particulate size of 300 500 microns . Furthermore similar performance improvements are expected even when the monolithic carrier is formed from materials other than cordierite such as for example metal or ceramic in the form of any unitary body including but not limited to a monolith a honeycomb a plate foam heat exchanger components reactor chamber walls etc.

Suitable operating conditions for oxidative dehydrogenation of a C Calkane in the exothermic reaction zone are generally known in the art and determinable by persons of ordinary skill. For example the C Calkane oxygen and optionally a diluent are typically supplied to the exothermic reaction zone separately or in various combinations with one another at a total gas hourly space velocity GHSV of between about 1 000 hrto 1 000 000 hr for example between about 5 000 hrand 200 000 hr or even 5 000 hrto 10 000 hr. The reaction pressure is typically in the range of from 0.1 to about 10 atmospheres atm for example from 0.8 to 5.0 atm and the reaction temperature is typically maintained between 400 C. and 1 100 C. for example between 450 C. and 650 C. Contact time between the reactants and catalyst is typically in the range of from 10 milliseconds ms 360 000 h to 4 seconds 900 h . The molecular ratio of C Calkane to oxygen supplied to the exothermic reaction zone may for example be in a range of from 1 1 to 10 1 such as between 1 1 and 5 1.

In this exemplary embodiment when the selected upstream catalyst is an ODH catalyst the downstream catalyst may be an endothermic dehydrogenation catalyst which catalyzes the endothermic dehydrogenation of the same C Calkane in the presence of a mild oxidant to the same corresponding C Calkene as the ODH catalyst in the exothermic reaction zone. For example if the upstream catalyst is an oxidative dehydrogenation catalyst which converts propane to propene then the downstream catalyst may be an endothermic dehydrogenation catalyst which also converts propane to propene. The mild oxidant may be for example without limitation carbon dioxide steam or a combination thereof. As discussed hereinabove many such endothermic dehydrogenation catalysts are known and would be suitable for use the endothermic reaction zone in accordance with process of the present invention.

Persons of ordinary skill will be familiar with various endothermic dehydrogenation catalysts that may be successfully used in the endothermic reaction zone in accordance with process of the present invention. Suitable categories of endothermic dehydrogenation catalysts include but are not limited to chromium oxide based catalysts which may also comprise oxides of at least one metal selected from the group consisting of Mo W V Ga Mg Ni Fe alkali elements alkali earth elements and rare earth elements as well as vanadium oxide based catalysts which may be promoted with Li Na K or Mg platinum based catalysts which may also comprise at least one metal selected from the group consisting of sodium potassium cesium rhenium and tin and a catalyst comprising at least one metal selected from the group consisting of Ga Fe Mn and Co.

As will be easily recognized by skilled persons there are many catalyst compositions suitable for use in the endothermic reaction zone in accordance with the present invention. For example the endothermic dehydrogenation catalyst may comprise a vanadium chromium oxide and optionally at least one oxide of a metal selected from the group consisting of copper silver and gold. The vanadium chromium oxide catalyst may also comprise oxides of one or more metals selected from the group consisting of Cu Ag Au K Cs Pt Rh and additional metal oxides. Furthermore the vanadium chromium oxide catalysts may be modified with one or more reagents selected from the group consisting of phosphate and sulfate.

As already mentioned the endothermic dehydrogenation catalysts may be combined and supported on materials such as alumina platinum silica zirconia zeolites other metal oxides microporous materials mesoporous materials and refractory materials. For example silicon oxide material or mesoporous material such as MCM 41 may be used to support a vanadium oxide based catalyst such as V Cr Si O V Cr Ag Si O V Cr Ag Cs Silo and others. Additionally other examples include without limitation a V Cr Mn W O catalyst supported on alumina platinum oxide based catalysts supported on a microporous zeolite material such as ZSM 5 and a V Cr AgO catalyst supported on gallium oxide material e.g. GaO . As will be easily recognized by skilled persons there are many combinations of catalyst compositions and support materials that will be suitable for use in the endothermic reaction zone in accordance with the present invention.

Suitable operating conditions for endothermic dehydrogenation of a C Calkane are generally known by persons of ordinary skill and are applicable to operation of the endothermic reaction zone. For example carbon dioxide the heated mixed product gas comprising unreacted C Calkane and optionally a diluent may be supplied to the endothermic reaction zone separately or mixed at a total gas hourly space velocity GHSV of about 500 hrto 100 000 hr. The reaction pressure is typically in the range of from 0.1 to about 10 atm for example from 0.8 to 5.0 atm and the reaction temperature is typically maintained between 300 C. and 900 C. for example between 450 C. and 700 C. Contact time between the reactants and catalyst is typically in the range of from 36 ms 100 000 h to 7.2 seconds 500 h such as for example from 200 ms to 5 seconds. The molecular ratio of unreacted C Calkane to mild oxidant such as carbon dioxide supplied to the exothermic reaction zone may for example be in a range of from 1 0.1 to 1 10 or even between 1 1 and 1 5. It is noted that short contact time SCT operating conditions have been used as an alternative to traditional steam cracking and non oxidative dehydrogenation processes to perform oxidative dehydrogenation of C Calkenes wherein the contact time of the reactants with the oxidative dehydrogenation catalyst is typically in the range of 1 to 650 ms under temperatures of between 200 C. and 1100 C. and pressures of from 0.3 atm to 40 atm.

After further processing of the dehydrogenation effluent stream the resulting oxidation feed stream comprises propene unreacted propane and carbon dioxide. With reference back to the oxidation feed stream is fed sequentially to the partial oxidation reaction zones PO . In particular as shown schematically in the oxidation feed stream along with an oxygen containing gas and optionally steam is provided to the first 28 of two oxidation reaction zones . Addition of oxygen containing gas to the starting materials provides molecular oxygen to the reaction system. It is usually most economical to use an oxygen containing gas such as air since purity is not particularly required.

Any type of reactors that are suitable for performing the desired vapor phase oxidation reactions may be used to contain or hold the oxidation reaction zones . Shell and tube reactors for example and without limitation are suitable for use in this regard.

Suitable diluting gases may also be provided to the first oxidation reaction zone including but not limited to one or more of carbon monoxide carbon dioxide or mixtures thereof an inert gas such as nitrogen argon helium or mixtures thereof. A suitable molar ratio of the starting materials for the total feed materials to the first oxidation reaction zone C Calkane C Calkene or a mixture thereof oxygen HO diluting gas would be for example 1 0.1 to 10 0 to 20 0.2 to 70 for example including but not limited to 1 1 to 5.0 0 to 10 5 to 40 . Where it is desired to produce unsaturated carboxylic acids it is beneficial to include steam among the starting materials as shown in and mentioned hereinabove. The steam to be employed may be present in the form of steam gas in the reaction system and the manner of its introduction is not particularly limited.

When steam is supplied together with the mixture of C Calkanes and alkenes as starting material gas the selectivity for an unsaturated carboxylic acid is distinctly improved and the unsaturated carboxylic acid can be obtained in good yield. However the conventional technique utilizes a diluting gas as described above for the purpose of diluting the starting material. Such a diluting gas is used to adjust the space velocity the oxygen partial pressure and the steam partial pressure as will be readily understood by persons having ordinary skill in the art.

If it is desired to produce unsaturated nitriles from the corresponding C Calkanes ammonia not shown must also be provided to the first oxidation reaction zone . In such cases the ammonia may be provided simultaneously but separately from the oxidation feed stream or any of the other feed streams . Alternatively the ammonia may be combined with any one or more of the other feed streams to the first oxidation reaction zone .

With reference now to the oxidation reaction zones one or more oxidation catalysts not shown per se are contained within each oxidation reaction zone . The oxidation catalysts are capable of facilitating the desired vapor phase oxidation reaction in this case partial oxidation of a C Calkene e.g. propene to the corresponding unsaturated carboxylic acid e.g. acrylic acid . The oxidation catalysts may be of different configuration including but not limited to fixed bed moving bed and fluidized bed. In addition any suitable catalyst may be used and would be selected based upon the particular C Calkane C Calkene or mixture thereof and the desired oxidation products. As is well known in the art the catalysts may be used alone or they may also be used together with a carrier or support such as without limitation silica alumina titania aluminosilicate or diatomaceous earth. Further depending upon the scale or system of the reaction they may be molded into a proper shape and or particle size. The particular shape or geometry of the catalysts are not particularly limited in connection with the present invention.

The selection of the catalysts their shape size and packing method are well within the ability of persons having ordinary skill in the art. In general any catalysts that are capable of catalyzing the two step vapor phase catalytic oxidation of a reactive hydrocarbon to an unsaturated aldehyde or acid are suitable for use in connection with the present invention. For example one embodiment of the multiple catalyst system of the present invention is capable of catalyzing propene to acrylic acid. Although the following discussion will describe the multiple catalyst system as applied to the production of acrylic acid from propene by two step vapor phase catalytic oxidation it will be understood as previously described that the present invention is not limited to such application and is suitable for use in the production of other unsaturated aldehydes and acids from other types of reactive hydrocarbons.

Catalysts capable of oxidizing an alkene to the corresponding aldehyde are hereinafter referred to as first oxidation catalysts and are suitable for use with the present invention as will be discussed in further detail hereinafter. In addition catalysts capable of oxidizing the aforesaid aldehyde to the corresponding unsaturated carboxylic acid second oxidation catalysts . Either the first oxidation catalysts or the second oxidation catalysts or both are typically but need not be mixed metal oxide compositions.

For example the first oxidation reaction zone may contain a first oxidation catalyst and the second oxidation reaction zone may contain a second oxidation catalyst. Other embodiments are possible wherein the multiple catalyst system comprises more than one type of first oxidation catalyst and a second oxidation catalyst or alternatively a first oxidation catalyst and more than one type of second oxidation catalyst. Furthermore the catalysts contained in the first and second oxidation reaction zones may comprise more than one type of first oxidation catalyst and more than one type of second oxidation catalyst. The foregoing variations and others will be readily apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art based upon the following description.

In particular a first oxidation catalyst suitable for use in connection with the present invention comprises at least one atom of a group VIB element at least one atom of a group VA element and at least two group VII atoms and is capable of catalyzing the production of an aldehyde such as acrolein. For example the first oxidation catalyst may contain more than one atom of the same group VIII element e.g. group VIII atoms include Fe Co Ni Ru Rh Pd Os Ir Pt . In another embodiment the R1 catalyst comprises two group VIII atoms which are different elements. In a further embodiment the first oxidation catalyst comprises at least Fe Co or Ni. Yet another embodiment of first oxidation catalyst includes at least two different atoms selected from Fe Co or Ni and compounds which are mixture thereof e.g. FeCo FeNi CoFe CoNi .

Commonly the first oxidation catalyst comprises at least one atom of a group VIB element e.g. Cr Mo W or Unh for example at least Mo. In one embodiment the first oxidation catalyst comprises at least one atom of a group VA element e.g. N P As Sb or Bi and in another embodiment the catalyst comprises Mo Bi Fe and at least one atom of Ni or Co.

For example suitable catalysts for the oxidation of propene to acrolein are described in for instance U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 025 565 5 821 390 and 5 929 275.

A second oxidation catalyst suitable for use in connection with the present invention may comprise at least one atom of a group VIB element e.g. Cr Mo W or Unh at least one atom of a group VB element e.g. V Nb Ta or Unp at least one atom of a group IB element e.g. Cu Ag or Au and a group VA element e.g. N P As Sb or Bi . For example the second oxidation catalyst may comprise one or more atoms of elements from groups including IA alkali metal element e.g. H Li Na K Rb Cs or Fr IIA alkali earth metal element e.g. Be Mg Ca Sr Ba or Ra IIIB which also encompasses elements of the lanthanide series and the actinide series e.g. Sc Y La Ac Ce Pr Nd Pm Sm Eu Gd Tb Dy Ho Er Tm Yb Lu Th Pa U Np Pu Am Cm Bk Cf Es Fm Md No or Lr IVB e.g. Ti Zr Hf or Unq VB e.g. V Nb Ta or Unp VIIB e.g. Mn Tc Re or Uns VIII e.g. Fe Co Ni Ru Rh Pd Os Ir Pt IIB e.g. Zn Cd or Hg IIIA e.g. B Al Ga In or Tl IVA e.g. C Si Ge Sn or Pb VA e.g. N P As Sb or Bi or VIA e.g. O S Se Te or Po .

In one embodiment the second oxidation catalyst comprises Mo V Cu W and Sb. Another embodiment the second oxidation catalyst comprises antimony present in an amount less than about 5 wt with a concentration of less than 3 typical and less than 1 in another embodiment. In still another embodiment the second oxidation catalyst comprises MoOand MoOeither individually i.e. MoOwithout MoO or MoOwithout MoO or in combination i.e. MoOand MoO .

Suitable catalysts for the oxidation of acrolein to acrylic acid for example without limitation are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 775 474 3 893 951 3 954 855 4 075 127 4 146 732 4 259 211 4 339 355 5 177 260 and 5 739 391.

With reference still to In the first oxidation reaction zone the oxidation feed materials come into contact with the first oxidation catalyst therein and react with one another to form desired oxidation products as well as various side products and by products according to the particular types of C Calkanes and alkenes used. When the oxidation feed stream comprising C Calkene contacts the one or more catalysts contained in the first oxidation reaction zone an intermediate oxidation effluent stream is formed which comprises at least the corresponding aldehyde along with unreacted alkane alkene carbon dioxide and oxygen. For example without limitation where the C Calkene in the oxidation feed stream comprises propene the corresponding aldehyde in the effluent stream will comprise acrolein.

As shown in the intermediate oxidation effluent stream is fed into the second oxidation reaction zone along with additional oxygen containing gas such as air and optionally additional steam . More particularly the additional oxygen containing gas may be first combined with the intermediate oxidation effluent stream and then fed together as a combined stream not shown to the second oxidation reaction zone . Alternatively the additional oxygen containing gas may be fed to the second oxidation reaction zone as a separate feed stream see .

In the second oxidation reaction zone the corresponding aldehyde and oxygen come into contact with a second oxidation catalyst situated in the second oxidation reaction and react with one another to form the desired oxidation products as well as various side products and by products according to the particular types of alkanes and alkenes used. A final oxidation effluent stream see exits the second oxidation reaction zone and typically contains but is not limited to one or more oxidation products e.g. unsaturated carboxylic acid unreacted oxygen and unreacted Cto Calkane or alkene or mixture thereof as well as reaction by products which may include but are not limited to acetic acid and carbon dioxide and possibly unreacted water and unreacted ammonia depending upon the starting materials used. The final oxidation effluent may be fed to additional processing apparatus not shown to undergo separation and purification processes as is well known to persons having ordinary skill in the art to recover the one or more oxidation products.

For example as will be described in greater detail below in connection with the Examples the final oxidation effluent stream may be subjected to quenching with water in an absorber followed by one or more separations steps to remove impurities and concentrate the acrylic acid product. Furthermore in one embodiment the gas from the absorber may be dried such as in a molecular sieve dryer and then fed to a pressure swing adsorption system to recover unreacted propane and carbon dioxide for recycle back to the dehydrogenation reaction zones. In another embodiment pressure swing adsorption is omitted and the dried gas from the absorber is simply recycled back to the first dehydrogenation reaction zone oxidative dehydrogenation with the recycle amount and composition being such that separation of unreacted propane and carbon dioxide is unnecessary.

It will be understood that the embodiments of the present invention described hereinabove are merely exemplary and that a person skilled in the art may make variations and modifications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. All such variations and modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention.

The following description refers to the schematic representation of process equipment shown in . Two dehydrogenation reactors DH DH each comprising two oxidation reaction zones not shown per se but see and accompanying description above are loaded with suitable catalysts also not shown per se but see and accompanying description above . One reactor at a time is in operation and is used to convert the propane to propene using thermally integrated dehydrogenation processes. When one reactor is not in use i.e. off line it undergoes catalyst regeneration. The dehydrogenation reactors DH DH are automatically cycled on line and off line by a process control system not shown .

The starting materials fed to the dehydrogenation reaction zones are propane at 12595 kg hr air at 180 m min STP carbon dioxide at 5317 kg hr and nitrogen at 9348 kg hr and 65788 kg hr recycle gas comprising propane and carbon dioxide each of the propane air and recycle streams having the compositions listed in the following Table 1 

The air and recycle gas are combined and compressed to 2.6 bar and combined with the propane CO and oxygen. The combined propane feed stream is heated by exchange with the oxidative dehydrogenation reactor effluent to 525 C. and then in a feed heater to the reaction temperature 625 C.

For each dehydrogenation reactor a first zone not shown per se is loaded with a catalyst containing 4 VO 6 NbOsupported on Davisil 646 for exothermic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane alkane to form the corresponding alkene propene and a second zone not shown per se is loaded with a catalyst containing 10 CrOsupported on Merck 10181 for dehydrogenation of additional quantities of propane in the presence of a weak oxidant the carbon dioxide to produce more propene. Contact time in the first zone is 0.48 sec ml g and the contact time in the second zone is 0.50 sec ml g. To obtain a heat neutral balance between the first and second dehydrogenation zones and thus thermally integrated dehydrogenation reaction zones the oxygen concentration in the feed can be adjusted plus the reactor is designed such that the heat from the first zone exothermic reaction is used provide heat to the second zone endothermic reaction. The composition of the effluent gas from the dehydrogenation reaction zones is provided in the following Table 2 

The cooled effluent gas from the dehydrogenation reaction zones is dried in a molecular sieve dryer compressed and cooled to 10 bar and 37 C. Propane propene and COfrom the effluent gas are absorbed in a solvent hexane . The non absorbed constituent species can either be incinerated or used as a fuel source. The organic rich solvent is regenerated in a second column by stripping the propane propene and COfrom the solvent with air at 205 m min STP . The hexane solvent from the regeneration column is recycled back to the absorber . The recovered propane propene and CO are heated together to 225 C. and combined with oxygen at 8936 kg hr and steam at 3362 kg hr . The first propene oxidation reactor feed stream is fed to the first of two partial oxidation reaction zones PO at a rate of 107602 kg hr and has the composition listed in the following Table 3 

Propene is converted to acrolein in the first partial oxidation reaction zone in the presence of a mixed metal oxide catalyst containing Mo W Bi Fe Co Cs Si not shown per se . The acrolein product stream from the first partial oxidation reaction zone is combined with air at 167 m min STP and a stream 115 kg hr and fed to a second partial oxidation reaction zone wherein the acrolein is converted to acrylic acid in the presence of a mixed metal oxide catalyst containing as essential compounds Mo V W Cu Sb Ti not shown per se . The composition of the gaseous effluent stream from the second partial oxidation reaction zone is as follows 

The effluent from the partial oxidation reaction zones PO is quenched with water in an absorber . The aqueous crude acrylic acid is conducted to separations apparatus not shown to concentrate the acrylic acid and remove impurities. The gas from the absorber is dried in a molecular sieve dryer and fed to a pressure swing adsorption system to separate and recover unreacted propane and CO. In order to meet feed concentration requirements for the ODH reactor the first dehydrogenation reaction zone propane and COneed to be separated and recovered from the gas from the absorber. Without such recovery a significant portion of the gas from the absorber could not be used for recycle and would need to be discarded. The pressure swing adsorption system is assumed to recover 99 of the unreacted propane and 90 of the CO. The recovered propane and CO are recycled to the dehydrogenation reactors DH DH . The non recycled material can be combined with the gas from the propane propene absorber incinerated or used as a fuel source.

The following description refers to the schematic representation of process equipment shown in . Two dehydrogenations reactors DH DH each comprising two reaction zones not shown per se are loaded with suitable catalysts also not shown per se . One reactor at a time is in operation and is used to convert the propane to propene using thermally integrated dehydrogenation processes. When one reactor is not in use i.e. off line it undergoes catalyst regeneration. The dehydrogenation reactors are automatically cycled on line and off line by a process control system not shown .

The starting materials fed to the oxidative dehydrogenation reaction zones are propane at 27738 kg hr air at 45 m min STP carbon dioxide at 15211 kg hr CO oxygen at 4160 kg hr and 101194 kg hr recycle gas comprising propane nitrogen and carbon dioxide each of the propane air and recycle streams having the compositions listed in the following Table 5 

The air and recycle gas are combined and compressed to 2.6 bar and combined with the propane CO and oxygen . The combined propane feed is heated by exchange with the oxidative dehydrogenation reactor effluent to 525 C. and then in a feed heater to the reaction temperature 625 C.

For each dehydrogenation reactor DH DH the first dehydrogenation reaction zone not shown per se is loaded with a catalyst not shown per se containing 4 V2O5 6 Nb2O5 supported on Davisil 646 for exothermic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane alkane to for the corresponding alkene propene and the second dehydrogenation reaction zone not shown per se is loaded with a catalyst not shown per se containing 10 Cr2O3 supported on Merck 10181 for dehydrogenation of additional quantities of propane in the presence of a weak oxidant i.e. the carbon dioxide to produce more propene. Contact time in the first dehydrogenation reaction zone is 0.48 sec ml g and the contact time in the second dehydrogenation reaction zone is 0.50 sec ml g. To obtain a heat neutral balance between the first and second dehydrogenation zones and thus thermally integrated dehydrogenation reaction zones DH DH the oxygen concentration in the feed can be adjusted plus the reactor design must be such that the heat from the first zone exothermic reaction is used provide heat to the second zone endothermic reaction. The composition of the effluent gas from the dehydrogenation reaction zones is provided in the following Table 6 

The cooled effluent gas from the dehydrogenation zones DH DH is dried in a molecular sieve dryer compressed and cooled to 10 bar and 37 C. Propane propene and COfrom the effluent gas are absorbed in a solvent hexane . The non absorbed constituent species can either be incinerated or used as a fuel source. The organic rich solvent is regenerated in a second column by stripping the propane propene and COfrom the solvent with air at 57 m min STP . The hexane solvent from the regeneration column is recycled back to the absorber . The recovered propane propene and CO is heated to 225 C. and combined with oxygen at 11561 kg hr and steam at 3362 kg hr . The oxidation reactor feed stream is fed to the first of two partial oxidation zones PO at a rate of 112560 kg hr and has the composition listed in the following Table 7 

Propene is converted to acrolein in the first partial oxidation reaction zone in the presence of a mixed metal oxide catalyst containing Mo W Bi Fe Co Cs Si not shown per se . The acrolein product stream from the first partial oxidation reaction zone is combined with air at 167 m min STP and steam at 115 kg hr and fed to the second partial oxidation reaction zone wherein the acrolein is converted to acrylic acid in the presence of a mixed metal oxide catalyst containing as essential compounds Mo V W Cu Sb Ti not shown per se . Composition of the gaseous effluent from the second partial oxidation reaction zone is as follows 

The effluent from the partial oxidation reaction zones PO is quenched with water in an absorber . The aqueous crude acrylic acid is conducted to separations apparatus not shown per se to concentrate the acrylic acid and remove impurities. The gas from the absorber is dried in a molecular sieve dryer and then recycled back to the first oxidation reaction zone oxidative dehydrogenation of the oxidation reactors DH DH . The recycle amount and component composition in the recycle is such that separation of the propane and COis not required.

