---

title: Subpopulations of bone marrow-derived adherent stem cells and methods of use therefor
abstract: The presently disclosed subject matter provides an isolated subpopulation of bone marrow-derived adherent stem cells that are purified from bone marrow-derived adherent cells. Also provided are methods for isolating the subpopulation of bone marrow-derived adherent stem cells from bone marrow-derived adherent cells and for using the isolated subpopulation of bone marrow-derived adherent stem cells for treating tissue and/or organ damage in a subject.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08431162&OS=08431162&RS=08431162
owner: University of Louisville Research Foundation, Inc.
number: 08431162
owner_city: Louisville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081030
---
The presently disclosed subject matter claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 000 977 filed Oct. 30 2007 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety

This presently disclosed subject matter was made with U.S. Government support under Grant No. 1 R21 HL089737 01A1 awarded by U.S. National Institutes of Health National Heart Lung and Blood Institute NHLBI . Thus the U.S. Government has certain rights in the presently disclosed subject matter.

The presently disclosed subject matter relates in general to the identification isolation and use of a subpopulation of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells. More particularly the presently disclosed subject matter relates to isolating said subpopulation of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells and employing the same to treat tissue and or organ damage in a subject in need thereof.

The use of stem cells and stem cell derivatives has gained increased interest in medical research particularly in the area of providing reagents for treating tissue damage that result from genetic defects injuries and or disease processes. Ideally cells that are capable of differentiating into the affected cell types could be transplanted into a subject in need thereof where they would interact with the organ microenvironment and supply the necessary cell types to repair the injury.

Stem cells can be harvested from a number of organs including the bone marrow adipose tissue skeletal muscle and other organs. Considerable effort has been expended to isolate adult stem cells from a number of different tissues for use in regenerative medicine. For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 750 397 to Tsukamoto et al. discloses the isolation and growth of human hematopoietic stem cells that are reported to be capable of differentiating into lymphoid erythroid and myelomonocytic lineages. U.S. Pat. No. 5 736 396 to Bruder et al. discloses methods for lineage directed differentiation of isolated human mesenchymal stem cells under the influence of appropriate growth and or differentiation factors. The derived cells can then be introduced into a host for mesenchymal tissue regeneration or repair.

Traditionally adherent primitive cells also termed mesenchymal stem cells are isolated via adhesion to plastic for 24 72 hours. However it is well known that the population of cells isolated via adhesion is considerably heterogeneous in terms of phenotype antigen expression morphology biological activities and differentiation potential. Bone marrow BM derived mesenchymal stem cells MSCs for example can be induced to differentiate into osteogenic chondrogenic adipogenic myogenic neural and other nonhematopoietic lineages.

Ischemic heart disease is the single most prevalent cause of death and morbidity in the USA Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics 2006 . Despite pharmacotherapy the infarcted left ventricle LV undergoes progressive remodeling leading to permanent impairment of cardiac function and development of congestive heart failure Pfeffer et al. 1979 Pfeffer et al. 1990 McMurray Pfeffer 2005 . Since no intervention is currently available for restoring the lost myocardial tissue the treatment of post myocardial infarction MI heart failure remains palliative and the prognosis for patients with large MI remains poor Braunwald Bristow 2000 McMurray Pfeffer 2005 . Although recent evidence indicates that therapy with BM derived cells can improve LV function ameliorate remodeling and improve perfusion the benefits have varied tremendously from one study to another and the underlying mechanisms remain highly controversial Vassilopoulos et al. 2003 Wang et al. 2003 Chien 2004 Balsam et al. 2004 Murry et al. 2004 Laflamme Murry 2005 .

This inconsistency has significant consequences on the usefulness of these mixed cell populations for in vivo therapeutic purposes. For example while clinical trials of MSC therapy for infarct repair are already underway a critical examination of studies in vitro and cardiac repair in vivo has revealed a profound lack of consistency in major findings including MSC induced angiogenesis myogenesis anti apoptotic effects and a combination thereof often termed paracrine effects . The bases for this inconsistency of performance are currently unknown.

Thus there continues to be a need for new approaches to generate populations of transplantable cells suitable for a variety of applications including but not limited to treating injury and or disease of various organs and or tissues.

This Summary lists several embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter and in many cases lists variations and permutations of these embodiments. This Summary is merely exemplary of the numerous and varied embodiments. Mention of one or more representative features of a given embodiment is likewise exemplary. Such an embodiment can typically exist with or without the feature s mentioned likewise those features can be applied to other embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter whether listed in this Summary or not. To avoid excessive repetition this Summary does not list or suggest all possible combinations of such features.

The presently disclosed subject matter provides methods for isolating a subpopulation of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells. In some embodiments the methods comprise a contacting bone marrow derived adherent stem cells with a plurality of antibodies wherein each of the plurality of antibodies is specific for an antigen selected from the group consisting of CD45 CD34 Sca 1 c kit Thy1 CD90 and CD105 under conditions sufficient to allow binding of each antibody to its target if present on each cell of the population of cells and b selecting a subpopulation of cells that are CD34 or Sca 1 and are also CD45 c kit Thy1 CD90 and CD105. In some embodiments the contacting step comprises contacting the bone marrow derived adherent stem cells with a plurality of antibodies simultaneously or iteratively. In some embodiments the presently disclosed methods further comprise expanding the bone marrow derived adherent stem cells in culture for about 7 days prior to performing the contacting step.

The presently disclosed subject matter also provides isolated subpopulations of bone marrow derived adherent stems cells wherein the isolated subpopulation of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells comprises CD34 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 or Sca 1 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 cells isolated from adherent bone marrow cells.

The presently disclosed subject matter also provides method for treating an injury to a tissue in a subject. In some embodiments the methods comprise administering to the subject a composition comprising a plurality of isolated CD34 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 or Sca 1 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 bone marrow derived adherent stem cells in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier in an amount and via a route sufficient to allow at least a fraction of the bone marrow derived adherent stem cells to engraft the tissue and differentiate therein whereby the injury is treated. In some embodiments the injury is selected from the group consisting of an ischemic injury and a myocardial infarction. In some embodiments the tissue exhibits an impaired function secondary to one or more causes identifiable or not other than ischemic injury.

The presently disclosed methods and compositions can be employed in the treatment of subjects of any species. In some embodiments the subject is a mammal. In some embodiments the subject is a human.

It is an object of the presently disclosed subject matter to provide a method for isolating a subpopulation of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells.

An object of the presently disclosed subject matter having been stated hereinabove and which is achieved in whole or in part by the presently disclosed subject matter other objects will become evident as the description proceeds when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings as best described hereinbelow.

The present subject matter will be now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying Examples in which representative embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter are shown. The presently disclosed subject matter can however be embodied in different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter to those skilled in the art.

Disclosed herein are methods for the isolation of a specific subpopulation of bone marrow derived adherent mesenchymal stem cells based on surface antigen expression. For this purpose bone marrow cells were isolated from the femur and tibia of adult mice and cells were allowed to adhere to plastic culture plates in DMEM F12 medium. After a sufficient time period e.g. 3 days the non adherent cells were discarded and the remaining cells allowed to expand. Expanded cells were detached by trypsin stained with fluorochrome conjugated primary antibodies against various surface markers Sca 1 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 and CD11b and analyzed by fluorescence activated cell sorting FACS . Stem cells with the Sca 1 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 phenotype were sorted and collected in 1 ml of DMEM F12 in snap cap tubes. These cells were transferred to a cell culture incubator shortly after sorting and cultured in appropriate media to induce cardiomyogenic and endothelial differentiation.

During culture as well as at the end of culture differentiation of these specific MSCs into cardiac cells and endothelial cells was examined by morphology and quantitation of protein expression. The differentiation of these MSCs was confirmed by the detection of cardiac specific proteins in the differentiated cells using specific staining for these proteins. Their differentiation was also confirmed by detecting nuclear proteins that have been proven to be specifically present in cardiac cells. Differentiation into an endothelial phenotype was confirmed by quantitatively examining the formation of endotubules in MATRIGEL matrix as well as by examining the expression of endothelial cell specific proteins. The Sca 1 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 subpopulation yielded greater numbers of cardiac and endothelial cells compared with other phenotypes. Therefore this subpopulation represents a good candidate to improve the efficiency of stem cell mediated cardiac repair when transplanted in patients with heart attacks or heart failure.

All technical and scientific terms used herein unless otherwise defined below are intended to have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. References to techniques employed herein are intended to refer to the techniques as commonly understood in the art including variations on those techniques or substitutions of equivalent techniques that would be apparent to one of skill in the art. While the following terms are believed to be well understood by one of ordinary skill in the art the following definitions are set forth to facilitate explanation of the presently disclosed subject matter.

Following long standing patent law convention the terms a an and the mean one or more when used in this application including the claims unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Thus the phrase a stem cell refers to one or more stem cells.

The terms target tissue and target organ as used herein refer to an intended site for accumulation of one or more cells present in the presently disclosed stem cell subpopulations following administration to a subject. For example in some embodiments the methods of the presently disclosed subject matter involve a target tissue or a target organ that has been damaged for example by ischemia or other injury.

The term control tissue as used herein refers to a site suspected to substantially lack accumulation of an administered cell. For example in accordance with the methods of the presently disclosed subject matter a tissue or organ that has not been injured or damaged is a representative control tissue as is a tissue or organ other than the intended target tissue. For example if the injury to be treated is a myocardial infarction the intended target tissue would be the heart and essentially all other tissues and organs in the subject can be considered control tissues.

The terms targeting and homing as used herein to describe the in vivo activity of a cell for example a cell present within the presently disclosed stem cell subpopulations following administration to a subject and refer to the preferential movement and or accumulation of the cell in a target tissue as compared to a control tissue.

The terms selective targeting and selective homing as used herein refer to a preferential localization of a cell for example a cell present within the presently disclosed stem cell subpopulations that results in an accumulation of one or more members of the administered subpopulation in a target tissue that is in some embodiments about 2 fold greater than accumulation of members of the administered subpopulation in a control tissue in some embodiments accumulation of one or more members of the administered subpopulation in a target tissue that is in some embodiments about that is about 5 fold or greater and in some embodiments an accumulation of one or more members of the administered subpopulation in a target tissue that is in some embodiments about that is about 10 fold or greater than in an control tissue. The terms selective targeting and selective homing also refer to accumulation of one or more members of the administered subpopulation in a target tissue concomitant with an absence of accumulation in a control tissue in some embodiments the absence of accumulation in all control tissues.

The term absence of targeting is used herein to describe substantially no binding or accumulation of one or more members of the administered subpopulation in one or more control tissues under conditions wherein accumulation would be detectable if present. The phrase also is intended to include minimal background accumulation of one or more members of the administered subpopulation in one or more control tissues under such conditions.

The term subject as used herein refers to a member of any invertebrate or vertebrate species. Accordingly the term subject is intended to encompass any member of the Kingdom Animalia including but not limited to the phylum Chordata i.e. members of Classes Osteichythyes bony fish Amphibia amphibians Reptilia reptiles Aves birds and Mammalia mammals and all Orders and Families encompassed therein.

Similarly all genes gene names and gene products disclosed herein are intended to correspond to homologs from any species for which the compositions and methods disclosed herein are applicable. Thus the terms include but are not limited to genes and gene products from humans and mice. It is understood that when a gene or gene product from a particular species is disclosed this disclosure is intended to be exemplary only and is not to be interpreted as a limitation unless the context in which it appears clearly indicates. Thus for example for the genes disclosed herein which in some embodiments relate to mammalian nucleic acid and amino acid sequences by GENBANK Accession No. are intended to encompass homologous and or orthologous genes and gene products from other animals including but not limited to other mammals fish amphibians reptiles and birds.

The methods of the presently disclosed subject matter are particularly useful for warm blooded vertebrates. Thus the presently disclosed subject matter concerns mammals and birds. More particularly contemplated is the isolation manipulation and use of subpopulations of BM derived adherent stem cells from mammals such as humans and other primates as well as those mammals of importance due to being endangered such as Siberian tigers of economic importance animals raised on farms for consumption by humans and or social importance animals kept as pets or in zoos to humans for instance carnivores other than humans such as cats and dogs swine pigs hogs and wild boars ruminants such as cattle oxen sheep giraffes deer goats bison and camels rodents such as mice rats and rabbits marsupials and horses. Also provided is the use of the disclosed methods and compositions on birds including those kinds of birds that are endangered kept in zoos as well as fowl and more particularly domesticated fowl e.g. poultry such as turkeys chickens ducks geese guinea fowl and the like as they are also of economic importance to humans. Thus also contemplated is the isolation manipulation and use of subpopulations of BM derived adherent stem cells from livestock including but not limited to domesticated swine pigs and hogs ruminants horses poultry and the like.

The term about as used herein when referring to a measurable value such as an amount of weight time dose etc. is meant to encompass variations of in some embodiments 20 in some embodiments 10 in some embodiments 5 in some embodiments 1 and in some embodiments 0.1 from the specified amount as such variations are appropriate to perform the disclosed methods.

The term isolated as used in the context of a cell including for example a bone marrow derived adherent stem cell indicates that the cell exists apart from its native environment. An isolated cell can also exist in a purified form or can exist in a non native environment.

As used herein the term injury is to be interpreted broadly to include any impact on a cell tissue or organ that results in an undesirable consequence to the cell tissue or organ. In some embodiments an injury results from an insult that is observable or otherwise definable but the ability to identify the source of the injury is not limiting. Thus in some embodiments an injury comprises an ischemic injury.

However in some embodiments injury can include injuries subsequent to which a cell tissue and or organ exhibits an impaired function that is secondary to one or more causes identifiable or not other than ischemic injury.

As used herein a cell exists in a purified form when it has been isolated away from all other cells that exist in its native environment but also when the proportion of that cell in a mixture of cells is greater than would be found in its native environment. Stated another way a cell is considered to be in purified form when the population of cells in question represents an enriched population of the cell of interest even if other cells and cell types are also present in the enriched population. A cell can be considered in purified form when it comprises in some embodiments at least about 10 of a mixed population of cells in some embodiments at least about 20 of a mixed population of cells in some embodiments at least about 25 of a mixed population of cells in some embodiments at least about 30 of a mixed population of cells in some embodiments at least about 40 of a mixed population of cells in some embodiments at least about 50 of a mixed population of cells in some embodiments at least about 60 of a mixed population of cells in some embodiments at least about 70 of a mixed population of cells in some embodiments at least about 75 of a mixed population of cells in some embodiments at least about 80 of a mixed population of cells in some embodiments at least about 90 of a mixed population of cells in some embodiments at least about 95 of a mixed population of cells and in some embodiments about 100 of a mixed population of cells with the proviso that the cell comprises a greater percentage of the total cell population in the purified population that it did in the population prior to the purification. In this respect the terms purified and enriched can be considered synonymous.

As used herein the phrases subpopulation of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells Sca 1 CD45 ckit CD90 CD105 MSCs CD34 CD45 ckit CD90 CD105 MSCs Sca 1 CD45 ckit CD90 CD105 cells BMMSC and Sca 1 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 subpopulation are used interchangeably and refer to a subpopulation of bone marrow cells that are isolated from a mixed population of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells by the methods disclosed herein. In some embodiments the subpopulation of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells is isolated by isolating from a mixed population of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells a subpopulation of said cells that are Sca 1 or CD34 as well as CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 depending on the source of the bone marrow derived adherent stem cells. For example if the source of the bone marrow derived adherent stem cells is a mouse the subpopulation of said cells can include those cells that are Sac 1 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105. If the source of the bone marrow derived adherent stem cells is a human the subpopulation of said cells can include those cells that are CD34 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105.

MSCs were originally isolated by their adherence to plastic Friedenstein et al. 1968 Friedenstein et al. 1970 Friedenstein et al. 1976 and this method of MSC isolation continues to be followed in numerous laboratories working on MSC biology. Although more than 20 different surface antigens have been used to characterize adherent MSCs Deans Moseley 2000 Piftenger et al. 2004 marked discrepancies exist in the literature about the extent of positivity negativity for many of these markers Deans Moseley 2000 Silva et al. 2003 Piftenger et al. 2004 . In particular MSCs have been described both as positive and negative for c kit and CD105 c kit Mangi et al. 2003 CD105 Kinnaird et al. 2004b Grinnemo et al. 2006 c kit Kinnaird et al. 2004b CD105 Gojo et al. 2003 . Also the impact of surface antigen expression on differentiation potential and on the ability to secrete cardioprotective growth factors cytokines has not been systematically investigated.

The presently disclosed subject matter provides methods of isolating a subpopulation of BM derived adherent stem cells from a mixed population of BM derived adherent cells. In some embodiments the method comprises a providing a population of bone marrow derived cells b adhering the bone marrow derived cells to a surface for a time sufficient to produce a mixed population of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells on the surface c isolating the mixed population of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells d contacting the mixed population of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells with an plurality of antibodies wherein different members of the plurality of antibodies are specific for Sca 1 or CD34 CD45 c kit Thy1 and CD105 and e isolating a subpopulation of the bone marrow derived adherent stem cells that are Sca 1 or CD34 as well as CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 whereby a subpopulation of BM derived adherent stem cells is isolated.

As used herein the term CD34 refers to a cell surface marker found on certain hematopoietic and non hematopoietic stem cells and having the gene symbol CD34. The GENBANK database discloses amino acid and nucleic acid sequences of CD34 from various species some of which are summarized in Table 1.

In mice some stem cells also express the stem cell antigen Sca 1 GENBANK Accession No. NP034868 also referred to as Lymphocyte antigen Ly 6A.2.

As used herein the term CD45 refers to a tyrosine phosphatase also known as the leukocyte common antigen LCA and having the gene symbol PTPRC. The GENBANK database discloses amino acid and nucleic acid sequences of CD34 from various species some of which are summarized in Table 1.

As used herein the term c kit refers to a cell surface marker found on certain stem cells and having the gene symbol KIT. The GENBANK database discloses amino acid and nucleic acid sequences of CD34 from various species some of which are summarized in Table 1.

As used herein the term Thy1 refers to a cell surface marker found on certain stem cells and having the gene symbol THY1. Thy1 is also referred to as CD90 and these terms are used interchangeably herein. The GENBANK database discloses amino acid and nucleic acid sequences of CD34 from various species some of which are summarized in Table 1.

As used herein the term CD105 refers to a cell surface marker found on certain stem cells and having the gene symbol CD105. The GENBANK database discloses amino acid and nucleic acid sequences of CD34 from various species some of which are summarized in Table 1.

Thus the subpopulation of Sca 1 or CD34 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 stem cells represents a subpopulation of all bone marrow derived adherent stem cells that are present in the mixed population of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells prior to the contacting step. In some embodiments the subpopulation of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells are from a human and are CD34 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105. In some embodiments the subpopulation of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells are from a mouse and are Sca 1 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105.

The isolation of the disclosed subpopulations can be performed using any methodology that can separate cells based on expression or lack of expression of the one or more of the CD45 CD34 Sca 1 c kit Thy1 and CD105 markers including but not limited to fluorescence activated cell sorting FACS .

The isolating step can be performed in a stepwise manner and or concurrently. For example the presence or absence of each marker can be assessed individually producing two subpopulations at each step based on whether the individual marker is present. Thereafter the subpopulation of interest can be selected and further divided based on the presence or absence of the next marker.

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter antibodies specific for markers expressed by a cell type of interest e.g. polypeptides expressed on the surface of a CD34 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 or a Sca 1 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 bone marrow derived adherent stem cell are employed for isolation and or purification of subpopulations of BM derived adherent stem cells that have marker profiles of interest. It is understood that based on the marker profile of interest the antibodies can be used to positively or negatively select fractions of a population which in some embodiments are then further fractionated.

In some embodiments a plurality of antibodies antibody derivatives and or antibody fragments with different specificities is employed. In some embodiments each antibody or fragment or derivative thereof is specific for a marker selected from the group including but not limited to Ly 6A E Sca 1 CD34 CD45 Thy1 c kit and CD105. In some embodiments cells that also express one or more genes selected from the group including but not limited to SSEA 1 Oct 4 Rev 1 and Nanog are isolated and or purified. In some embodiments each antibody or fragment or derivative thereof comprises a detectable label. Different antibodies or fragments or derivatives thereof which bind to different markers can comprise different detectable labels or can employ the same detectable label.

A variety of detectable labels are known to the skilled artisan as are methods for conjugating the detectable labels to biomolecules such as antibodies and fragments and or derivatives thereof. As used herein the phrase detectable label refers to any moiety that can be added to an antibody or a fragment or derivative thereof that allows for the detection of the antibody. Representative detectable moieties include but are not limited to covalently attached chromophores fluorescent moieties enzymes antigens groups with specific reactivity chemiluminescent moieties and electrochemically detectable moieties etc. In some embodiments the antibodies are biotinylated. In some embodiments the biotinylated antibodies are detected using a secondary antibody that comprises an avidin or streptavidin group and is also conjugated to a fluorescent label including but not limited to Cy3 Cy5 Cy7 and any of the ALEXA FLUOR series of fluorescent labels available from. In some embodiments the antibody fragment or derivative thereof is directly labeled with a fluorescent label such as Cy3 Cy5 or Cy7. In some embodiments the antibodies comprise biotin conjugated rat anti mouse Ly 6A E Sca 1 clone E13 161.7 streptavidin PE Cy5 conjugate rat anti mouse anti CD45 APCCy7 clone 30 F11 rat anti mouse c kit clone 2B8 rat anti mouse Flk 1 clone Avas 12 1 rat anti mouse CD90 clone 53 2.1 and rat anti mouse CD105 clone MJ7 18 . All antibodies were purchased from BD Pharmingen San Jose Calif. United States of America. In some embodiments the antibody fragment or derivative thereof is directly labeled with a fluorescent label and cells that bind to the antibody are separated by fluorescence activated cell sorting. Additional detection strategies are known to the skilled artisan.

While FACS scanning is a convenient method for purifying subpopulations of cells it is understood that other methods can also be employed. An exemplary method that can be used is to employ antibodies that specifically bind to one or more of Ly 6A E Sca 1 CD34 CD45 Thy1 c kit and CD105 with the antibodies comprising a moiety e.g. biotin for which a high affinity binding reagent is available e.g. avidin or streptavidin . For example a biotin moiety could be attached to antibodies for each marker for which the presence on the cell surface is desirable e.g. Ly 6A E Sca 1 CD34 or Thy1 and the cell population with bound antibodies could be contacted with an affinity reagent comprising an avidin or streptavidin moiety e.g. a column comprising avidin or streptavidin . Those cells that bound to the column would be recovered and further fractionated as desired. Alternatively the antibodies that bind to markers present on those cells in the population that are to be removed e.g. CD45 c kit and CD105 can be labeled with biotin and the cells that do not bind to the affinity reagent can be recovered and purified further.

It is also understood that different separation techniques e.g. affinity purification and FACS can be employed together at one or more steps of the purification process.

A subpopulation of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells containing the CD34 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD 105 or Sca 1 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 cells of the presently disclosed subject matter can be isolated from any subject or from any source within a subject that contains them. In some embodiments the population of cells comprises a bone marrow sample.

The presently disclosed subject matter also provides a population of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells isolated by the presently disclosed methods.

III. Methods and Compositions for Treatment using Bone Marrow derived Adherent Stem Cell Subpopulations

Although BM derived MSCs can differentiate into osteogenic chondrogenic and adipogenic lineages whether MSCs can differentiate into endothelial and cardiomyogenic lineages remains controversial. Moreover the cardiac reparative benefits from unfractionated MSC therapy have been modest and variable Tomita et al. 1999 Toma et al. 2002 Mangi et al. 2003 Kawada et al. 2004 Kinnaird et al. 2004a Kinnaird et al. 2004b Dai et al. 2005 Gnecchi et al. 2005 Haftan et al. 2005 Berry et al. 2006 . Importantly all of these studies with disparate results employed the conventional method of MSC isolation that involves serial culture expansion of unfractionated adherent BM cells. However the adherent BM cells are highly heterogeneous in nature Prockop 1997 Majumdar et al. 1998 Phinney et al. 1999 Minguell et al. 2001 Piftenger et al. 2004 Le Blanc et al. 2006 and as preliminary data indicate even after 72 hours of adhesion used in multiple studies of cardiac repair Kinnaird et al. 2004a Tang et al. 2005 the adherent cells contain large numbers of hematopoietic cells and macrophages.

Moreover seemingly minor changes in the method of isolation and expansion can significantly alter the expansion potential as well as the phenotype of unfractionated MSCs. Although several recent studies have examined surface markers in MSCs disparate markers have been used Gojo et al. 2003 Kinnaird et al. 2004b Nagaya et al. 2005 Grinnemo et al. 2006 and MSCs from one study cannot be effectively compared with that of another. Thus the variable compositions of different MSC populations appear to have contributed to the inconsistent results observed in several laboratories to date.

The presently disclosed subject matter thus provides in some embodiments a method for treating an injury to a tissue or organ in a subject the method comprising administering to the subject a pharmaceutical composition wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises a plurality of isolated CD34 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 or Sca 1 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 bone marrow derived adherent stem cells in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier in an amount and via a route sufficient to allow at least a fraction of the members of the subpopulation to engraft the tissue and differentiate therein whereby the injury is treated.

As used herein the phrase treating an injury to a tissue or organ in a subject refers to both intervention designed to ameliorate the symptoms of causes of the injury in a subject e.g. after initiation of the disease process as well as to interventions that are designed to prevent the disease from occurring in the subject. Stated another way the terms treating and grammatical variants thereof are intended to be interpreted broadly to encompass meanings that refer to reducing the severity of and or to curing a disease as well as meanings that refer to prophylaxis. In this latter respect treating refers to preventing or otherwise enhancing the ability of the subject to resist the disease process.

The compositions of the presently disclosed subject matter comprise in some embodiments a composition that includes a carrier particularly a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as but not limited to a carrier pharmaceutically acceptable in humans. Any suitable pharmaceutical formulation can be used to prepare the compositions for administration to a subject.

For example suitable formulations can include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions that can contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostatics bactericidal antibiotics and solutes that render the formulation isotonic with the bodily fluids of the intended recipient.

It should be understood that in addition to the ingredients particularly mentioned above the formulations of the presently disclosed subject matter can include other agents conventional in the art with regard to the type of formulation in question. For example sterile pyrogen free aqueous and non aqueous solutions can be used.

The therapeutic regimens and compositions of the presently disclosed subject matter can be used with additional adjuvants or biological response modifiers including but not limited to cytokines and other immunomodulating compounds.

Suitable methods for administration the cells of the presently disclosed subject matter include but are not limited to intravenous administration and delivery directly to the target tissue or organ. In some embodiments the method of administration encompasses features for regionalized delivery or accumulation of the cells at the site in need of treatment. In some embodiments the cells are delivered directly into the tissue or organ to be treated. In some embodiments selective delivery of the presently disclosed cells is accomplished by intravenous injection of cells where they home to the target tissue or organ and engraft therein.

An effective dose of a composition of the presently disclosed subject matter is administered to a subject in need thereof. A treatment effective amount or a therapeutic amount is an amount of a therapeutic composition sufficient to produce a measurable response e.g. a biologically or clinically relevant response in a subject being treated . Actual dosage levels of active ingredients in the compositions of the presently disclosed subject matter can be varied so as to administer an amount of the active compound s that is effective to achieve the desired therapeutic response for a particular subject. The selected dosage level will depend upon the activity of the therapeutic composition the route of administration combination with other drugs or treatments the severity of the condition being treated and the condition and prior medical history of the subject being treated. However it is within the skill of the art to start doses of the compound at levels lower than required to achieve the desired therapeutic effect and to gradually increase the dosage until the desired effect is achieved. The potency of a composition can vary and therefore a treatment effective amount can vary. However using the assay methods described herein one skilled in the art can readily assess the potency and efficacy of a candidate compound of the presently disclosed subject matter and adjust the therapeutic regimen accordingly.

After review of the disclosure of the presently disclosed subject matter presented herein one of ordinary skill in the art can tailor the dosages to an individual subject taking into account the particular formulation method of administration to be used with the composition and particular disease treated. Further calculations of dose can consider subject height and weight severity and stage of symptoms and the presence of additional deleterious physical conditions. Such adjustments or variations as well as evaluation of when and how to make such adjustments or variations are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art of medicine.

The following Examples provide illustrative embodiments. In light of the present disclosure and the general level of skill in the art those of skill will appreciate that the following Examples are intended to be exemplary only and that numerous changes modifications and alterations can be employed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter.

Isolation of unfractionated MSCs by adherence to plastic. Adult mice C57BL 6 were euthanized the long and hip bones removed and placed in DMEM F 12 and marrow pulp extracted via repeated irrigation using a 21 gauge needle. Cells were triturated by gentle pipetting and red blood cells RBCs lysed by the addition of a 0.8 solution of NHCl. The method of lysis of RBCs was used because this method yielded superior expansion potential of adherent MSCs see e.g. . After washing in medium cells were plated in 10 cm diameter uncoated plates 1 10cells cm . Non adherent cells were removed after 72 hours. Cells were allowed to adhere for 72 hours so that more cells with primitive behavior would be retained.

Isolation of antigenically defined MSC subpopulations by flow cytometry. Unfractionated adherent MSCs isolated as per the above were trypsinized at 7 days. The impact of antigen expression on MSC characteristics isolated at the same time before expansion was directly compared. However to perform quantitative assessment of mRNA expression differentiation and growth factor secretion an adequate number of cells are required for each of the 8 subpopulations see .

In preliminary experiments surface antigen analysis in MSCs after 72 hours revealed considerable contamination with hematopoietic cells and macrophages with very low numbers of non hematopoietic cells expressing markers relevant for nonhematopoietic stem progenitors see . On the other hand after 8 passages the numbers of Sca 1 0.9 of all cells and c kit 0.3 of all cells cells were very low see which precluded isolation of adequate number of cells for several subpopulations in .

Therefore all subpopulations were isolated after 7 days which allowed an adequate number of cells to be isolated in all subpopulations. MSCs were stained for CD45 c kit Flk 1 Sca 1 Thy1 CD90 and CD105 using directly conjugated monoclonal antibodies BD Biosciences San Jose Calif. United States of America . Combinations of surface antigens were used to obtain MSC subpopulations by multicolor FACS. The purities of sorted cells were also checked to ensure 95 purity.

Whether the expansion potential of adherent MSCs isolated after different methods are similar in the same medium was investigated. Adherent MSCs obtained after plating whole BM cells BM cells obtained via lysis of RBCs by 0.8 NHCl solution and via Ficoll density centrifugation were expanded in MESENCULT culture medium Stem Cell Technologies Inc. Vancouver British Columbia Canada and the total number of cells was estimated during each passage. Unfractionated MSCs obtained via adherence after lysis of RBCs exhibited greatest expansion potential see indicating that depending on the method of purification MSCs exhibited differential expansion rates in the same medium suggesting heterogeneity between even unfractionated MSCs.

In typical isolation protocols BM cells are allowed to adhere for variable lengths of time ranging from overnight to 72 hours. Macrophages are generally one of the earliest cells to adhere while cells with a primordial phenotype might not adhere easily and the cell population that adheres quickly might not represent the ideal cell population for cardiac repair.

In preliminary analyses adherent cells contained large numbers of hematopoietic CD45 cells and macrophages CD45 CD11b after 72 hours. Moreover non hematopoietic CD45 cells rarely expressed c kit Sca 1 and CD90 see markers that are associated with stem progenitor cells. Based on these observations although non adherent cells were discarded after 72 hours MSC subpopulations were sorted after 7 days of culture. This method for the delayed isolation of MSC subpopulations allowed for the isolation of cells with endothelial and cardiomyogenic differentiation potential.

Following adherence MSCs were cultured in MESENCULT . After 7 days MSCs were tested for expression of for CD45 c kit Flk 1 Sca 1 CD90 and CD105 using specific antibodies rat anti mouse CD45 clone 30 F11 rat anti mouse c kit clone 2B8 rat anti mouse Flk 1 clone Avas 12 1 rat anti mouse Sca 1 clone E13 161.7 rat anti mouse CD90 Thy1 clone 53 2.1 and rat anti mouse CD105 clone MJ7 18 all of which were purchased from BD Pharmingen of San Jose Calif. United States of America and antigenically defined distinct MSC subpopulations were sorted by FACS using a MOFLO High Performance Cell Sorter Dako North America Inc. Carpinteria Calif. United States of America using Summit 4.3 software . Unfractionated MSCs were morphologically heterogeneous at isolation and this morphological heterogeneity persisted even after 28 passages see . In contrast CD45 c kit Sca 1 CD90 CD105 MSCs exhibited a homogenous morphology early during expansion see indicating that the analysis of surface antigen expression can be used to isolate MSC subpopulations with greater morphological homogeneity. These results also indicated that the heterogeneity of unfractionated MSCs cannot be eliminated simply by prolonged expansion.

Unfractionated MSCs were isolated by adherence and expanded during serial passages. During each passage MSCs were stained and analyzed by flow cytometry. Unfractionated MSCs were antigenically heterogeneous during early stages of culture and this heterogeneity persisted during expansion. For example even after 16 passages only 63 of culture expanded unfractionated MSCs were positive for CD90 and 29 were positive for CD105 see .

Thus although culture expanded MSCs are referred to as a homogeneous population the experiments disclosed herein indicated that unfractionated MSCs continued to remain heterogeneous for surface antigen expression during expansion.

Unfractionated MSCs were isolated and expanded in MESENCULT . Serial analysis of surface antigen expression by flow cytometry revealed a marked decline in hematopoietic cells CD45 and macrophages CD11b during expansion see indicating that the MSC population used in several in vivo studies of cardiac repair that used cells after only a few passages see Dai et al. 2005 Tang et al. 2005 Freyman et al. 2006 Wang et al. 2006 perhaps contained macrophages and hematopoietic cells. The expression of Sca 1 and CD90 which are markers of stem progenitor cells increased gradually during expansion while the increase in CD105 expression was followed by a decline see . The expression of two other important markers of stem progenitor cells Flk 1 and c kit decreased during expansion see .

Additionally during each passage an aliquot of cells approx. 100 000 were stained with directly flourochrome conjugated specific antibodies against Sca 1 CD45 c kit Thy 1 CD105 Flk 1 and CD11b. The expression of these antigens was serially assessed quantitatively by flow cytometric analysis. The data presented in demonstrated that during passages 2 through 30 the expression of antigens change considerably. Specifically it was noted that over this time Sca 1 expression progressively increased see CD45 expression decreased see c kit expression decreased see Thy1CD90 expression increased followed by minor decline in levels see CD105 expression gradually increased and then decreased see Flk 1 expression decreased see and CD11b expression decreased sharply see .

These data suggested the importance of accurate characterization of surface antigen expression during MSC expansion. These observations also emphasized the need for establishing optimal culture conditions to achieve MSC expansion with no or minimal changes in surface antigen expression genetic composition and differentiation potential.

Unexpanded unfractionated MSCs and antigenically defined MSC subpopulations isolated by FACS were plated on MATRIGEL coated plates in EBM medium supplemented with EGM MV Cambrex Corp. East Rutherford N.J. United States of America . After 6 hours 10 transmission images covering the entire plate were acquired from each plate with an inverted microscope Axiovert Carl Zeiss Inc. Thornwood N.Y. United States of America . Endotubules were counted on printouts of images. Amongst the subpopulations examined thus far compared with the unfractionated MSCs the CD45 c kit Sca 1 CD90 CD105 MSCs showed a greater number of endotubule formation see .

These results indicated that as compared to unfractionated MSCs the antigenically defined MSC subpopulation exhibited greater angiogenic potential.

Unexpanded unfractionated MSCs and antigenically defined MSC subpopulations isolated by FACS were subjected to cardiomyogenic differentiation induction. Cardiomyogenic medium consisted of DMEM F 12 10 FBS IGF 1 Dynorphin B insulin and TGF 1 Zuba Surma et al. 2006 . Cardiomyogenic differentiation commitment was examined by immunocytochemical staining for cardiac specific markers GATA 4 Nkx2.5 cardiac myosin heavy chain troponin T and sarcomeric actin . Among the subpopulations examined the CD45 c kit Sca 1 CD90 CD105 MSCs showed greater cardiomyocytic lineage commitment as compared with the unfractionated MSCs as evidenced by expression of cardiac specific transcription factors and structural proteins see . These results indicated that compared with unfractionated MSCs the presently disclosed antigenically defined MSC subpopulation exhibited greater cardiomyogenic potential.

mRNA expression of several molecules known to play beneficial and detrimental roles during post infarct cardiac remodeling was quantitatively examined in unfractionated MSCs and antigenically defined MSC subpopulations by real time RT PCR. Compared with unfractionated MSCs the CD45 c kit Sca 1 CD90 CD105 MSCs expressed greater mRNA levels of VEGF HGF and SDF 1 see . Also the expression levels of TNF MMP 2 and MMP 9 were lower in CD45 c kit Sca 1 CD90 CD105 MSCs compared with unfractionated MSCs see . Importantly VEGF and HGF are thought to exert angiogenic and antiapoptotic actions Leung et al. 1989 Rosen et al. 1993 Nicosia et al. 1994 while SDF 1 appears to be involved in the recruitment of circulating progenitors thereby facilitating cardiac repair Lapidot 2001 Askari et al. 2003 Abbott et al. 2004 . In contrast expression of TNF in the infarcted LV is known to be detrimental Oral et al. 1995 Ono et al. 1998 Irwin et al. 1999 . Similarly MMP 2 and MMP 9 aggravate post infarct remodeling via collagen degradation Li et al. 2000 and anti MMP interventions result in improved outcomes after MI Rohde et al. 1999 Ducharme et al. 2000 Creemers et al. 2001 .

Thus the results presented herein support the hypothesis that antigenically selected MSCs are superior substrates for cellular therapy for cardiac repair after MI by virtue of a favorable secretory profile.

To determine the impact of medium on the expansion rate of unfractionated MSCs freshly isolated unfractionated MSCs were plated in two different primary culture media 1 DMEM F 12 with 10 FBS and 2 MESENCULT . Cells were passaged when the confluence reached approximately 70 and the total number of cells was estimated during each passage. DMEM F 12 induced considerably greater expansion of respective MSCs as compared with MESENCULT see which indicated that although these primary media are used commonly and the results are considered comparable these media exerted different influences on MSC proliferation. These results underscored the importance of optimizing the composition of culture conditions for MSC expansion.

Unfractionated MSCs were isolated and expanded in MESENCULT DMEM F 12 10 FBS DMEM F 12 2 FBS LIF and MEM 2 FBS LIF. Approximately 100 000 cells were collected from each group during passage and mRNA expression levels of various markers of pluripotency Oct 4 Nanog Rex 1 Dppa1 and Rif1 were examined by quantitative real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction RT PCR . Three particular observations were made i DMEM F 12 with low 2 serum and LIF was the most efficacious in preserving or enhancing the expression of these genes from passage 1 see to passage 2 see ii culture medium with high serum which is most commonly used for MSC expansion markedly reduced mRNA expression of these genes and iii the expression levels of these different markers all of which are associated with cellular pluripotency were differentially affected by the same medium. For example the changes in expression of Nanog and Dppa1 from passage 1 to passage 2 were different in the same medium e.g. DMEM F 12 with 2 FBS and LIF.

These data strongly suggested that optimization of expansion medium can be crucial for expansion of MSCs with respect to the preservation of pluripotency. Also based on these observations the use low serum 2 FBS with serum replacement supplements appeared to be advantageous for expansion of the cells of the presently disclosed subject matter.

Unfractionated MSCs were expanded in four different media as in EXAMPLE 10. Approximately 100 000 cells were collected from each group during passage and mRNA expression levels of VE cadherin endothelial lineage and Nkx2.5 cardiomyogenic lineage were examined by quantitative real time RT PCR. DMEM F 12 with low serum and LIF was most efficacious in preserving or enhancing the expression of these genes from passage 1 to passage 2 see indicating that careful selection of medium might preserve the expression of markers indicative of endothelial and cardiomyogenic lineage commitment in MSCs during expansion.

Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells BMMSCs are typically isolated as adherent cells the importance of antigen expression on cardiomyogenic potential of BMMSCs remains unclear. Although BMMSCs differentiate into a cardiomyocytic phenotype following 5 azacytidine treatment the effect of non toxic growth factors on differentiation induction remains unknown.

The cardiomyogenic potential of two subpopulations of BMMSCs in medium containing growth factors crucial for cardiac development was investigated. Sca1 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 BMMSC and Sca 1 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 BMMSC MSCs were obtained from the adherent fraction of BM from C57BL 6 mice using two step FACS isolation. Cells were differentiated in DMEM with FBS IGF 1 Dynorphin B TGF 1 and FGF 2. After 30 days of culture the expression of cardiac specific transcription factors TFs and intracellular antigens IAs was quantitatively evaluated by confocal microscopy. BMMSC cells exhibited greater cardiac differentiation potential compared with BMMSC and unfractionated BMMSC populations 29.1 1.7 vs. 15.7 1.6 vs. 15.8 0.9 of cells positive for cardiac markers see . BMMSC cells also exhibited greater angiogenic potential assessed by tube formation after 6 hours of culture in MATRIGEL see when compared with BMMSC and unfractionated BMMSC populations 364 11.4 vs. 268 14.4 vs. 293.7 33.6 of endotubules per field see .

These results indicated that selected nontoxic growth factors could effectively induce cardiac differentiation of BMMSCs and that BMMSCs lacking CD105 expression have greater proclivity to cardiac and endothelial differentiation.

Total mRNA is extracted from approximately 100 000 MSCs from each group and reverse transcribed. Quantitative assessment of mRNA expression of the genes of interest including but not limited to Oct 4 Nanog Rex 1 Dppa1 Rif1 Nkx2.5 GATA 4 Myl2 Myh6 Isl1 CD31 vWF Flk 1 VE cadherin and 2 microglobulin is performed by real time RT PCR using an ABI PRISM 7000 Sequence Detection System Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. United States of America according to standard methods see e.g. Zuba Surma et al. 2006 . Primers have been designed with the PRIMER EXPRESS software Applied Biosystems and verified.

Ventricular myocytes are isolated from 8 10 week old wild type C57 BL6 mice according to published methods see e.g. Zhou et al. Shinmura et al. 2005 . Briefly mice are deeply anesthetized with pentobarbital the heart rapidly excised aorta cannulated with a 23 gauge needle the isolated heart mounted and perfused with Ca 2 free Tyrode buffer 4 minutes and then with Tyrode buffer containing 25 M Ca 75 U ml collagenase I 75 U ml collagenase II Worthington Biochemical Corp. Lakewood N.J. United States of America and 1 albumin. The perfusion temperature is maintained at 37 C. and all buffers continuously bubbled with 95 Oand 5 CO. After 12 15 minutes the heart is rinsed with Tyrode buffer 200 M Ca no collagenase the LV cut into small pieces and digested shaking bath 37 C. 20 minutes . The dispersed cells are filtered through a nylon mesh. The Ca concentration is gradually increased to 1.0 mM by addition of medium 199 without FBS.

Following the assessment of viability cardiomyocytes are plated on the insert 0.4 m pore BD BIOCOAT Catalogue 354442 BD Biosciences and placed above MSCs during co culture. Since viable adult mouse cardiomyocytes cannot be maintained effectively in culture beyond 72 hours fresh myocytes are isolated at 48 72 hour intervals for the duration of co culture experiments.

Wild type male mice C57 BL6 body wt. 20 25 g age 10 12 weeks are used. The experimental preparation has been described in detail see Appendix Section F.I see also Guo et al. 1998 Dawn et al. 2004a Dawn et al. 2004b Dawn et al. 2006 . Mice are anesthetized intubated and ventilated. Using a sterile technique the chest is opened an 8 0 nylon suture passed under the left anterior descending coronary artery and a nontraumatic balloon occluder applied. Coronary occlusion is induced by inflating the balloon occluder. After 30 minutes the balloon is deflated and reperfusion verified. The chest is closed in layers mice removed from the ventilator kept warm given fluids and allowed 100 oxygen via nasal cone see Guo et al. 1998 Dawn et al. 2004a Dawn et al. 2004b Dawn et al. 2006 . Twenty eight days later mice are euthanized the heart excised and the infarct borderzone dissected out and snap frozen in liquid nitrogen. This time point was selected because at 28 days after MI in rodents the expression of pro inflammatory and cytotoxic molecules is considerably less and the microenvironment simulates that of postinfarct LV see Lu et al. 2004 Nian et al. 2004 Ono et al. 1998 . Myocardial extract is prepared according to previously published methods see Pierce et al. 1985 . Myocardial tissue sample is homogenized in cold 4 C. cell culture medium no serum . Following centrifugation 18 000 g for 15 minutes the supernatant is collected the pellet resuspended in medium homogenized in a glass homogenizer and centrifuged. This process is repeated three times. The supernatants are pooled and filtered. This procedure has been shown to yield a total protein concentration of 8 12 mg ml. This extract is used fresh or snap frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at 80 C.

When protein expression is abundant the expression levels of markers of endothelial and cardiomyogenic lineage commitment are assessed by standard SDS PAGE Western immmunoblotting see Dawn et al. 1999 Dawn et al. 2004a Dawn et al. 2004b . Total protein is isolated from an aliquot of cells using standard methods and 60 100 g of total protein is used per sample. The specific signals are quantitated and normalized with the actin loading control.

Unfractionated MSCs and MSC subpopulations are plated on uncoated plates in different primary media with and without myocardial extract per experimental protocols see . Culture supernatants are collected after 72 hours. Multiplex ELISA is performed per manufacturer s protocol using a Luminex 100 system and a customized multiplex ELISA kit LINCOPLEX LINCO Research Inc. St. Charles Mo. United States of America with anti mouse antibodies against MCP 1 G CSF GM CSF IL 6 IL 13 TNF IL 1 and IFN immobilized on microspheres. Sandwich ELISA anti mouse VEGF SCF SDF 1 TGF 1 MMP 2 MMP 9 TIMP 1 and anti human HGF and TIMP 2 R D Systems Inc. Minneapolis Minn. United States of America is performed according to manufacturer s protocol. The baseline values of specific growth factors cytokines in myocardial extract measured in simultaneously cultured myocardial extract without MSCs are subtracted from the observed values from cultures with MSCs.

Following isolation from the whole bone marrow cells unfractionated adherent stem cells were isolated by adhesion and expanded in culture. Two different media were used DMEM F12 with 10 fetal bovine serum and MESENCULT culture medium. With progressive cellular proliferation passage was regularly performed when cell density reached approximately 60 70 confluence. On average cells were passaged at approximately 7 10 day intervals. As shown in culture in MESENCULT culture medium resulted in greater proliferation rate compared with DMEM F12.

The ability of various media supplemented with different growth factors is tested. A representative scheme for these studies is set forth in . Briefly unfractionated MSCs and MSC subpopulations are plated in combinations of primary media DMEM F 12 IMDM MEM and MESENCULT and factors LIF IGF 1 FGF 2 PDGF B and Wnt3a see Table 2 . Half of the medium is changed every 3 4 days and cells passaged when confluence reaches approximately 70 every 7 10 days . Following trypsinization the total number of cells at each passage is estimated by counting in a hemocytometer using an inverted microscope Axiovert Carl Zeiss Inc. . Cell viability is assessed at each passage.

During each passage an aliquot of cells approximately 500 000 cells from each plate is stained for expression of various markers as set forth in EXAMPLE 5. Expression levels of CD45 APC APC Cy7 PE Cy7 or FITC c kit PE APC or APC Cy7 Flk 1 PE Sca 1 FITC or PE CD90 PE and CD105 APC are assayed and analyzed using a MOFLO High Performance Cell Sorter Dako and the Summit software. Additional common MSC antigens including CD31 FITC or APC CD29 ALEXA FLUOR 488 CD44 ALEXA FLUOR 488 are also used. CD11b PE is used to exclude hematopoietic cells including macrophages.

The primary end points of these studies are i the percentage of cells expressing specific surface antigens by flow cytometric analysis ii the fold change in mRNA expression of markers of pluripotency and endothelial and cardiomyogenic lineage commitment by real time RT PCR iii the percentage of cells positive for markers of pluripotency and lineage commitment by immunocytochemistry iv the levels of antigens and growth factors cytokines detected by ELISA and Western immunoblotting and v the estimated number of cells during passage. These parameters are assessed by a two way repeated measures for the same population as necessary ANOVA see Wallenstein et al. 1980 . When the ANOVA shows an overall difference post hoc contrasts are performed using Tukey s t tests or Student s t tests with the Bonferroni correction see Wallenstein et al. 1980 . All experiments are performed in triplicate. If larger sample size appears to be necessary the experiments are repeated under the same conditions. A P value of 

Assessment of Cardiac Function by Echocardiography. Echocardiography is performed using previously published methods see Dawn et al. 2005 . Rats are anesthetized with pentobarbital 50 mg kg i.p. a dose that produces only a modest reduction in LV EF . Core body temperature maintained with a heating pad heart rate and ECG are monitored continuously. Imaging is performed using a HDI 5000 SonoCT echocardiography machine fitted with a 15 7 MHz linear broad band transducer Philips Medical Systems International B.V. Best the Netherlands . The parasternal long axis parasternal short axis and apical four chamber views are used to obtain two dimensional 2 D M mode and spectral Doppler images. LV FS LV EF and LV FAC are calculated from the parasternal short axis 2 D and M mode images according to published methods.

Assessment of Cardiac Function by Invasive Hemodynamic Studies. Hemodynamic studies are ormed using previously published methods Beltrami et al. 2003 . Rats are anesthetized with pentobarbital 50 mg kg i.p. intubated and ventilated. A Millar 2 Fr ultraminiature conductance catheter specially designed for rat hearts is inserted from the right carotid artery into the LV for pressure volume PV measurements using the ARIA 1 conductance system. The inferior vena cava IVC is exposed and IVC occlusion IVCO is performed with external compression. IVCO produces variably loaded beats for determination of the end systolic PV relation ESPVR and other derived constructs of LV performance. Hemodynamics and PV loops are recorded during steady state and IVCO at baseline and after autonomic blockade with atropine and hexamethonium a ganglionic blocker given to obviate reflex effects on LV function. adrenergic sensitivity is then measured to evaluate inotropic reserve. Isoproterenol is given via i.v. bolus administration every 5 minutes at 1 10 50 and 100 pg g with steady state recordings made 1 minute after each dose. LV systolic function is evaluated by ejection fraction dP dt the ESPVR stroke work SW end diastolic volume EDV relation dP dt EDV relation and mechanical efficiency as previously described. LV diastolic function is evaluated by the EDPVR tau the time constant of relaxation and Kc LV chamber stiffness constant . Catecholamine responsiveness is indexed by the increase in dP dtmax acutely effected by escalating doses of isoproterenol.

Assessment of Differentiation of Injected Adherent Stem Cell Subpopulations into Cardiomyocytes and Endothelial Cells Cardiac Regeneration by Immunohistochemistry. In both control and stem cell injected rats cardiomyocytes are identified by immunostaining for cardiac specific antigens e.g. troponin T cardiac specific myosin desmin and connexin 43 . Newly formed cardiomyocytes are identified by immunostaining for Nkx2.5 a transcription factor restricted to the initial phases of myocyte differentiation Dawn et al. 2005 Dawn et al. 2006 . Endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells are identified with anti factor VIII and anti smooth muscle actin antibodies respectively Dawn et al. 2005 Dawn et al. 2006 . The differentiation of stem cells is also assessed by adding 5 bromodeoxyuridine BrdU in drinking water for the labeling of nuclei in the S phase of the cell cycle for 5 d prior to euthanasia Dawn et al. 2006 . BrdU and Ki67 expressed in cycling cells in G1 S G2 and early mitosis are detected by immunofluorescent examination of paraffin embedded myocardial sections. In stem cell injected rats dual immunohistochemistry for EGFP from donor cells and cardiac specific antigens e.g. troponin T cardiac myosin Nkx2.5 desmin and connexin 43 is used to identify stem cell derived cardiac cells endothelial cells and cardiomyocytes Dawn et al. 2005 Dawn et al. 2006 . In adherent stem cell injected rats dual immunohistochemistry for EGFP from donor cells and cardiac specific e.g. troponin T cardiac myosin Nkx2.5 desmin and connexin 43 and endothelial specific e.g. CD31 vWF is used to identify stem cell derived cardiac cells Dawn et al. 2005 Dawn et al. 2006 .

Myocardial Infarction Protocol. A rat model of myocardial infarction is be used for these studies Dawn et al. 2005 . Experience accumulated over the past six years has demonstrated that this model is not only reliable but also physiologically relevant. The 90 minute occlusion reperfusion protocol yields reproducible infarcts with small variability. In addition fundamental physiologic variables that impact on infarct size arterial blood pressure heart rate arterial blood gases and body temperature are carefully measured and maintained within normal limits. Athymic nude rats age 2 3 months weight 150 20 g Harlan Sprague Dawley Indianapolis Ind. United States of America are anesthetized with ketamine 37 mg kg and xylazine 5 mg kg and ventilated with a rodent respirator Harvard Apparatus Holliston Mass. United States of America . Anesthesia is maintained with isoflurane inhalation and body temperature is maintained at 37 C. with a heating pad. After administration of antibiotics the chest is opened through a midline sternotomy with the aid of a dissecting microscope Fisher Scientific Pittsburgh Pa. United States of America and a microcoagulator ASSI Polar Mate Isolator San Diego Calif. United States of America and a 8 0 nylon suture is passed with a tapered needle underneath the left anterior descending coronary artery 2 3 mm distal to its origin. A nontraumatic balloon occluder is applied on the coronary artery. Coronary occlusion is induced by inflating the balloon occluder. The successful performance of coronary occlusion and reperfusion is verified by visual inspection i.e. by noting the change of color during occlusion and the return of bright red color after reperfusion and by observing ST segment elevation and widening of the QRS complex on the ECG during ischemia and their resolution after reperfusion. All animals undergo a 90 minute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery followed by reperfusion. The chest is then closed and the rat allowed to recover. A small catheter is left in the thorax to evacuate air and fluids. Sham operated rats undergo a 2 hour open chest state without coronary occlusion. After 35 days of reperfusion rats are euthanized and the hearts processed for histologic and immunohistochemical analyses.

Transplantation of Adherent Stem Cell Subpopulations. Forty eight hours or 7 days after MI rats are re anesthetized and ventilated and the chest reopened via aseptic technique. Vehicle 50 l unfractionated adherent stem cells or Sca 1 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 stem cell subpopulation 5 10cells in 50 l are injected intramyocardially using a 30 gauge needle. A total of five injections are made in the periinfarct region in a circular pattern at the border between infarcted and noninfarcted myocardium. Sham operated animals receive similar injections of vehicle or cells. The chest is closed in layers and the rats allowed to recover.

Immunohistochemistry for the Detection of EGFP Troponin T Cardiac Myosin Connexin 43 Desmin Nkx2.5 Factor VIII Smooth Muscle Actin. Serial 6 m sections are cut with a microtome from the formalin fixed paraffin embedded heart samples. The primary antibodies anti EGFP troponin T cardiac myosin Nkx2.5 desmin connexin 43 factor VIII smooth muscle actin are diluted 1 100 and incubated for 2 hours at room temperature. The primary antibody is detected using fluorochrome conjugated secondary antibodies.

Morphometric Analysis of Cardiac Structure. Additional morphometric analysis is performed to quantitate cardiac repair as described in Dawn et al. 2005 Dawn et al. 2006 . After measuring the major longitudinal intracavitary axis the left ventricle LV is sectioned serially into five rings perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the heart fixed in formalin processed and embedded in paraffin. Infarct size is determined from Masson s trichrome stained serial sections of LV myocardium. From these sections the thicknesses of the free wall infarcted region and septum as well as the transverse LV chamber diameter are determined by an image analyzer. The minimal and maximal luminal diameters at mid region are used with the longitudinal axis to compute LV chamber volume. Measurements of wall thickness chamber radius and LVEDP from hemodynamic studies are used to calculate diastolic wall stress at each site examined. All anatomical parameters are corrected according to a uniform sarcomere length 2.1 m.

Statistical analysis. Data are reported as means SEM. Morphometric histological echocardiographic and hemodynamic data are analyzed with unpaired or paired Student s t tests as appropriate. Comparisons involving multiple groups are performed by one or two way time and group ANOVA as appropriate followed by Student s t tests with the Bonferroni correction.

Whether transplantation of Sca 1 CD45 c kit Thy1 CD105 adherent stem cells results in superior cardiac repair by virtue of their inherent propensity to undergo differentiation into cardiac lineages is tested. Studies of cardiac repair in vivo using a well established rat model of myocardial infarction are employed. A clinically applicable form of stem cell therapy intramyocardial injection is employed in a clinically relevant model of reperfused myocardial infarction MI . To critically assess the differentiation potential of adult bone marrow adherent cell subpopulations and consequent infarct repair in vivo an approach that requires quantitative assessment of cardiac function anatomy and cellular differentiation is adopted.

Murine adherent stem cells harvested from the bone marrow of male EGFP transgenic mice are transplanted into the infarct borderzone in infarcted immunocompromised female athymic nude rats. Four days after a baseline echocardiography study rats undergo a 90 minute coronary occlusion followed by reperfusion as described in Dawn et al. 2005. Culture expanded unfractionated cells or antigenically defined adherent stem cell subpopulations 2 10cells in 50 l are injected intramyocardially after 4 hours or 7 days of reperfusion as described in Dawn et al. 2008. Serial echocardiography is performed at 48 hours after cell transplantation and again after 35 days see Dawn et al. 2005 . Stem cell injected sham operated rats and vehicle injected infarcted rats serve as controls.

Following an invasive hemodynamic study rats will be sacrificed after 35 days. The hearts are perfusion fixed for infarct size assessment and histologic analysis of cardiac anatomy and infarct repair see Dawn et al. 2005 Dawn et al. 2008 . Quantitative assessment of new cardiomyocyte and vessel formation from EGFP labeled stem cells is performed see Dawn et al. 2005 Dawn et al. 2006 .

Cardiomyocyte cell cycle activity BrdU incorporation and Ki67 expression see Dawn et al. 2005 Dawn et al. 2006 are assessed quantitatively. Additional morphometric structural analysis includes measurements of wall thickness at various regions of left ventricle infarct wall septum posterior wall left ventricular chamber diameter and cardiomyocyte cross sectional area see Dawn et al. 2005 Dawn et al. 2006 . Apoptosis in native cardiomyocytes is quantitatively assessed in the infarct area borderzone and viable distant myocardium according to standard histological methods see Kajstura et al. 1996 Yamashita et al. 2001 .

Together these studies directly compare the efficacy of unfractionated adherent stem cells and antigenically derived subpopulations in cardiac repair after myocardial infarction. By performing extensive histologic analyses whether the improvement in cardiac structure and function result from differentiation of adherent stem cells into cardiomyocytes and vasculature is determined. Additionally the in vivo efficacy of differentiation of selected stem cells into endothelial and cardiomyocytic phenotypes is determined.

Subpopulations of bone marrow derived adherent stem cells derived from autologous donors referred to herein as Autologous Adherent Stem Cell Subpopulations ASCSes harvested from bone marrow cultured and propagated ex vivo are employed to regenerate infarcted myocardium in patients with acute myocardial infarction 1 3 weeks after acute MI and ischemic cardiomyopathy EF 

Number of patients to be enrolled. In a randomized double blind phase I clinical trial a total of 80 patients are enrolled in 4 groups twenty patients with acute myocardial infarction 20 patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy 20 control patients with acute MI standard therapy without cell injection and 20 control patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy standard therapy without cell injection .

Dose and route of injection. A total of 20 million ASCSes are injected via the intracoronary route in the infarct related artery see Strauer et al. 2005 Lunde et al. 2006 Schachinger et al. 2006 . An appropriately sized angioplasty balloon catheter is advanced into the coronary artery over a wire. The guidewire is then removed and the balloon catheter is inflated 4 7 times for 3 minutes each time at low pressures with 3 minutes of intervening reflow while ASCSes are infused distal to the occluding balloon through the central port of the catheter. This procedure increases the time available for transmigration of cells through the endothelial lining. Balloon inflations are performed at low pressures 3 atmospheres within a coronary artery so as not to induce any clinically significant endothelial injury disruption. The control patients receive vehicle injection during the same procedure. The catheter is withdrawn at the end of procedure. Optionally other delivery methods including intramyocardial injection in patients undergoing CABG Hendrikx et al. 2006 are also examined.

Comprehensive assessment of cardiac repair and impact of ASCS transplantation on cardiac structure function perfusion and patient symptoms. All patients undergo a baseline prior to cell injection contrast enhanced MRI examination to accurately document cardiac anatomy infarct volume myocardial wall motion and ejection fraction see Britten et al. 2003 Lunde et al. 2006 . Similar assessment of LV function and anatomy are carried out by echocardiographic examinations see Lunde et al. 2006 Schachinger et al. 2006 at the same time points. A nuclear perfusion imaging study is performed prior to cell injection to assess myocardial perfusion Strauer et al. 2002 . Baseline clinical variables including patient symptoms are documented. Relevant laboratory tests serum electrolytes biomarkers of ischemia and heart failure etc. are performed before cell injection.

Following ASCS transplantation cardiac parameters are followed up with serial MRI imaging at 1 3 6 12 and 24 months after cell injection. Nuclear perfusion imaging are performed at 6 12 and 24 months. Clinical variables and patient symptoms see Lunde et al. 2006 Schachinger et al. 2006 are followed up during serial office visits at 1 3 6 9 12 months and at 3 month intervals thereafter until 24 months. Relevant laboratory tests are performed during office visits.

The references listed below as well as all references cited in the specification including patents patent applications journal articles and all database entries e.g. GENBANK Accession Nos. including any annotations presented in the GENBANK database that are associated with the disclosed sequences are incorporated herein by reference to the extent that they supplement explain provide a background for or teach methodology techniques and or compositions employed herein.

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter may be changed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

