---

title: Radiographic apparatus and control method therefor
abstract: If image data is input to an image processor (step S), the image processor generates an integrated image sum (step S). The image processor extracts a maximum output max from the integrated image sum (step S). The image processor compares the maximum output max with a preset threshold (step S). In this case, the threshold is set to 80% of the saturation amount. When the saturation amount is 3 V, the threshold is 2.4 V. If the maximum value max is smaller than the threshold, imaging continues. If the maximum value max is equal to or larger than the threshold, the integrated image sum is cleared to 0 (step S), and refresh operation is performed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07683337&OS=07683337&RS=07683337
owner: Canon Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 07683337
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20081103
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 079 504 filed Mar. 11 2005 claims benefit of the filing date of that application under 35 U.S.C. 120 and claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 of Japanese patent application no. 2004 071171 filed on Mar. 12 2004. The entire disclosure of each of the two mentioned prior applications is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a radiographic apparatus suitable for an X ray imaging apparatus and a control method therefor.

Conventional X ray imaging systems installed in a hospital and the like are classified into a film radiography type in which a patient is irradiated with X rays and a film is exposed to X rays having passed through the patient and an image processing type in which X rays having passed through a patient are converted into an electrical signal and the signal undergoes a digital image process.

One of image processing systems is a radiographic apparatus which includes a phosphor for converting X rays into visible light and a photoelectric conversion device for converting visible light into an electrical signal. X rays having passed through a patient irradiate the phosphor and internal information of the patient that is converted into visible light by the phosphor is output as an electrical signal from the photoelectric conversion device. The information can be digitized by an A D converter after conversion into an electrical signal and the X ray image information subjected to recording display printing diagnosis and the like can be processed as a digital value.

Recently a radiographic apparatus using an amorphous silicon semiconductor thin film for the photoelectric conversion device has come into practical use see Japanese Patent Laid Open No. 2002 305687 .

Photoelectric conversion devices and switching devices amorphous silicon TFTs to be simply referred to as TFTs hereinafter are formed on a single substrate . The lower electrodes of the photoelectric conversion devices share first metal thin film layers with the lower electrodes gate electrodes of the TFTs. The upper electrodes of the photoelectric conversion devices share second metal thin film layers with the upper electrodes source and drain electrodes of the TFTs. The first and second metal thin film layers also serve as gate driving wiring lines and matrix signal wiring lines within the photoelectric conversion circuit unit. In the number of pixels is 2 2 4. A hatched portion in is the light receiving surface of the photoelectric conversion device. Reference numeral denotes a power supply line which biases the photoelectric conversion device. Reference numeral denotes a contact hole for connecting the photoelectric conversion device and TFT.

With the structure as shown in in which an amorphous silicon semiconductor is the main material photoelectric conversion devices switching devices gate driving wiring lines and matrix signal wiring lines can be simultaneously fabricated on the same substrate. This can easily provide a large area photoelectric conversion circuit unit at low cost.

Device operation of a single photoelectric conversion device will be explained. are energy band diagrams for explaining device operation of the photoelectric conversion device shown in . Depending on how to apply voltage to the first and second metal thin film layers and the photoelectric conversion device has two operation modes a refresh mode and photoelectric conversion mode.

In the D electrode does not completely cover the N layer. The D electrode and N layer are always at the same potential because electrons freely move between the D electrode and the N layer. The following description is based on this.

In showing the refresh mode a negative potential is applied to the D electrode with respect to the G electrode. Holes in the i layer a Si H are guided to the D electrode by the electric field. At the same time electrons are injected into the i layer. At this time some holes and some electrons recombine with each other and disappear in the N layer or i layer. If this state continues for a sufficiently long time holes in the i layer are swept from the i layer.

In order to change from this state to the state of showing the photoelectric conversion mode a positive potential is applied to the D electrode with respect to the G electrode. Then electrons in the i layer are instantaneously guided to the D electrode. However holes are not guided to the layer because the N layer functions as an injection blocking layer. If light enters the i layer in this state light is absorbed by the i layer to create electron hole pairs. Electrons are guided to the D electrode by the electric field whereas holes move in the i layer and reach the interface between the i layer and the a SiNx insulating layer. At this time holes cannot move into the a SiNx insulating layer and stay in the i layer. Since electrons move to the D electrode and holes move to the interface between the i layer and the insulating layer a current flows from the G electrode in order to keep electroneutrality in the photoelectric conversion device. The magnitude of current corresponds to electron hole pairs created upon incidence of light and is proportional to the quantity of incident light.

After the state in showing the photoelectric conversion mode is maintained for a predetermined period the state changes to that of showing the refresh mode again. Then holes staying in the i layer are guided to the D electrode as described above and at the same time a current corresponding to holes flows. The number of holes corresponds to the total quantity of light applied during the period of the photoelectric conversion mode. At this time a current corresponding to the number of electrons injected into the i layer also flows but the number of electrons is almost constant and the current can be detected by subtracting the number of electrons. That is the photoelectric conversion device can output the quantity of incident light in real time and can also detect the total quantity of light applied during a given period.

However when the period of the photoelectric conversion mode becomes long due to whatever reason or the illuminance of incident light is strong no current may flow regardless of incidence of light. This is because many holes stay in the i layer in the photoelectric conversion mode and reduce the electric field within the i layer and created electrons are not guided to the D electrode and recombine with holes within the i layer as shown in . This state is called the saturation state of the photoelectric conversion device. If the incident state of light changes in this state a current may flow unstably. However holes in the i layer are swept in the refresh mode again and a current proportional to light flows again in the next photoelectric conversion mode.

In X ray imaging using the conventional radiographic apparatus the photoelectric conversion device is set in the refresh mode to perform refresh operation. Then the photoelectric conversion device is set in the photoelectric conversion mode and irradiated with X rays to perform read operation acquiring one still image. In order to acquire successive moving images the series of processes is repeated by the number of moving images to be acquired.

After refresh operation X ray irradiation must wait until voltage fluctuations by the refresh stabilize. In general specifications necessary for imaging of a chest are an imaging region of 40 cm square or more and a pixel pitch of 200 m or less. When the radiographic apparatus is fabricated at an imaging region of 40 cm square and a pixel pitch of 200 m the number of photoelectric conversion devices increases to 4 000 000. Refreshing so many pixels increase the current flowing during refresh operation and voltage fluctuations in GND and the power supply line of the X ray imaging apparatus become large. In other words the wait time after the refresh operation becomes longer for a larger number of pixels.

To acquire moving images by using the conventional radiographic apparatus refresh operation must be executed after each imaging operation as described above. As the number of pixels increases or the number of imaging operations increases the time taken for refresh and the wait time accompanying refresh become longer decreasing the frame frequency.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a radiographic apparatus capable of shortening the refresh time and the wait time after refresh and increasing the frame frequency and a control method therefor.

The present inventor made extensive studies to solve the above problems and has found out the following aspects of the present invention.

A radiographic apparatus according to the present invention comprises a photoelectric conversion device array in which a plurality of pixels are arrayed on a substrate wherein each of the pixels include at least a photoelectric conversion device and a switching device and a detector which detects a signal output from the photoelectric conversion device array wherein a signal output from the detector is referred to and refresh operation of sweeping carriers remaining in the photoelectric conversion devices is performed in accordance with the signal.

A radiographic system according to the present invention comprises a radiation source which irradiates an object with radiation the above described radiographic apparatus that detects radiation having passed through the object image processing unit for performing an image process for a signal output from the radiographic apparatus and display unit for displaying image data processed by the image processing unit.

According to the present invention a method of controlling a radiographic apparatus having a photoelectric conversion device array in which a plurality of pixels are arrayed on a substrate wherein each of the pixels include at least a photoelectric conversion device and a switching device and a detector which detects a signal output from the photoelectric conversion device array comprises referring to a signal output from the detector and performing in accordance with the signal refresh operation of sweeping carriers remaining in the photoelectric conversion devices.

According to the present invention a program for causing a computer to control a radiographic apparatus having a photoelectric conversion device array in which a plurality of pixels are arrayed on a substrate wherein each of the pixels include at least a photoelectric conversion device and a switching device and a detector which detects a signal output from the photoelectric conversion device array causes the computer to refer to a signal output from the detector and perform in accordance with the signal refresh operation of sweeping carriers remaining in the photoelectric conversion devices.

According to the present invention refresh operation need not be unnecessarily executed and the number of refresh operations can be reduced. The time taken for refresh operation and the wait time necessary after refresh operation can be shortened and imaging of the moving images at a high frame frequency can be realized.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference characters designate the same or similar parts throughout the figures thereof.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention will be described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The first embodiment of the present invention will be explained. is a block diagram showing the arrangement of an X ray imaging apparatus radiographic apparatus and the flow of image data according to the first embodiment of the present invention.

The first embodiment comprises a photoelectric conversion circuit unit read circuit unit A D conversion circuit unit image processor and display . Image data output from the photoelectric conversion circuit unit is amplified by the read circuit unit and A D converted by the A D conversion circuit unit . The data undergoes image processes such as offset correction and gamma correction by the image processor and is output to the display . The resultant data is used for diagnosis by the radiographer.

The photoelectric conversion circuit unit and read circuit unit will be explained. is a circuit diagram showing the two dimensional arrangements of the photoelectric conversion circuit unit and read circuit unit . For descriptive convenience 3 3 9 pixels are illustrated.

In reference symbols S to S denote photoelectric conversion devices T to T switching devices TFTs Thin Film Transistors G to G gate wiring lines for turning on off the TFTs and M to M signal wiring lines. Vs lines are wiring lines for applying a storage bias to the photoelectric conversion devices. The black electrodes of the photoelectric conversion devices S to S are G electrodes and opposing electrodes are D electrodes. The D electrodes are connected to some of the Vs lines. In order to apply light onto the photoelectric conversion device for example a thin N layer is used as the D electrode. In the first embodiment the photoelectric conversion devices S to S switching devices T to T gate wiring lines G to G signal wiring lines M to M and Vs lines are included in the photoelectric conversion circuit unit . The Vs line is biased by a power supply Vs. Reference symbol SR denotes a shift register which applies a driving pulse voltage to the gate wiring lines G to G. A voltage Vcom for turning on the TFT is externally applied. A control signal VSC applies two types of biases to the Vs line of the photoelectric conversion device i.e. the D electrode of the photoelectric conversion device. The D electrode changes to Vref V for the control signal VSC Hi and Vs V for the control signal VSC Lo . A read power supply Vs V and refresh power supply Vref V are DC power supplies and for example Vs is 9 V and Vref is 3 V.

The read circuit unit amplifies serially converts and outputs the parallel signal outputs of the signal wiring lines M to M within the photoelectric conversion circuit unit. Reference symbols RES to RES denote switches which reset the signal wiring lines M to M A to A amplifiers which amplify the signals of the signal wiring lines M to M CL to CL sample and hold capacitances which temporarily store signals amplified by the amplifiers A to A Sn to Sn switches for sample and hold B to B buffer amplifiers Sr to Sr switches which serially convert parallel signals SR a shift register which supplies a pulse for serial conversion to the switches Sr to Sr and Ab a buffer amplifier which outputs serially converted signals.

When the photoelectric conversion device reaches the saturation state that is no electric field exists between the D electrode and a node N i layer or the electric field exists but is very small electrons and holes created by light recombine with each other and no hole can be stored at the junction node N in between the i layer and the insulating layer. That is the potential of the node N does not become higher than that of the D electrode. In order to embody operation in the saturation state represents that a diode D is parallel connected to the capacitive component C. In the photoelectric conversion device is represented by the three components C C and D and corresponds to each of the photoelectric conversion devices S to S in .

In reference symbol TFT denotes a thin film transistor serving as a switching device and corresponds to each of the switching devices T to T in . Reference symbol Cdenotes a read capacitance added to a signal wiring line but is not shown in . Reference symbol F denotes a wavelength conversion phosphor which converts the wavelength of X rays into that of the visible region and is arranged at a position in direct or indirect contact with the TFT. The base material of the phosphor is GdO GdO or the like and the luminescent center uses a material containing ions of a rare earth element such as Tb or Eu. A phosphor using CsI such as CsI TI or CsI Na as a base material may also be employed.

A switch SW B switches a voltage to be applied to the TFT via the gate wiring lines G to G and is arranged in the shift register SR shown in . A switch SW C resets a read capacitance Cto the GND potential and is controlled by an RC CRES signal. The switch SW C corresponds to each of the switches RES to RES in . Vg on Vcom is a power supply for turning on the TFT reading out signal charges and transferring them to the read capacitance C whereas Vg off is a power supply for turning off the TFT.

Circuit operation of one pixel shown in will be explained with reference to . is a timing chart showing circuit operation of one pixel. This circuit operation includes refresh operation X ray irradiation operation transfer operation and reset operation. The refresh period X ray irradiation period transfer period and reset period are set in correspondence with these operations.

The refresh period will be explained. In refresh operation a switch SW A is switched to the Vref side the switch SW B is switched to the Vg on side and the switch SW C is turned on. In this state the D electrode is biased to a 3 V Vref the G electrode is biased to the GND potential and the node N is biased to Vref 3 V at maximum. Maximum means the following situation. If the potential of the node N has already reached Vref or more by photoelectric conversion operation preceding to refresh operation the node N is biased to Vref via the diode D. To the contrary if the potential of the node N is Vref or less by photoelectric conversion operation preceding to refresh operation the node N is not biased to the potential Vref by refresh operation. In practical use the node N is substantially biased to Vref 3 V by refresh operation after photoelectric conversion operation is repeated a plurality of number of times.

This refresh operation sweeps hole carriers stored at the node N of the photoelectric conversion device to the D electrode side. In the refresh period the switch SW A is switched to the Vs side after the node N is biased to Vref. Accordingly the D electrode is biased to Vs 9 V .

The relationship between refresh operation and the saturation amount of the photoelectric conversion device will be described. Note that the capacitance of the capacitive component Cformed from the i layer and the capacitance of the capacitive component Cformed from the injection blocking layer are determined by the structure and in this case they are equal to each other. When the voltage of a node D is changed from Vs 9 V to Vref 3 V while the node G is kept at GND the voltage of the node N reaches 3 V at maximum as described above. After that the voltage of the node D is switched from Vref 3 V to Vs 9 V and then a difference voltage of 6 V between Vs and Vref is applied between the node D and the node G. Also a voltage 3 V which is half of 6 V is applied between the node D and the node N in accordance with the capacitance ratio in this case 1 1 of Cand C. As a result the voltages of the nodes D N and G become 9 V 6 V and 0 V on the final stage of refresh operation and the saturation amount of the i layer of the photoelectric conversion device becomes 9 V 6 V 3 V. That is the minimum value of the saturation amount of the photoelectric conversion device is 3 V. If the voltage of the node N does not reach 3 V as a result of changing the voltage of the node D from Vs 9 V to Vref 3 V the saturation amount of the photoelectric conversion device exceeds 3 V. Vs and Vref are voltages applied from outside the photoelectric conversion device array. By adjusting this voltage to increase the saturation amount the sequential imaging count can be increased.

The X ray irradiation period will be explained. In X ray irradiation operation the switch SW A is switched to the Vs side the switch SW B is switched to the Vg off side and the switch SW C is turned off. X rays are emitted like pulses as shown in . X rays having passed through an object irradiate the phosphor F and are converted into visible light. Visible light traveling from the phosphor irradiates the semiconductor layer i layer and is photoelectrically converted. Holes created by photoelectric conversion are stored in the interface between the i layer and the insulating layer injection blocking layer to raise the potential of the node N. Since the TFT is OFF the potential of the G electrode side also rises by the same amount.

The transfer period will be described. In transfer operation the switch SW A is switched to the Vs side the switch SW B is switched to the Vg on side and the switch SW C is turned off. Consequently the TFT is turned on. Electrons corresponding in number to holes stored upon X ray irradiation flow from the read capacitance Cto the G electrode via the TFT and the potential of the read capacitance Crises along with this. At this time the number Sh of holes and the number Se of electrons satisfy Se Sh C C C . The potential of the read capacitance Cis simultaneously amplified and output via the amplifier. The TFT is kept on for a time enough to satisfactorily transfer signal charges and then turned off.

Reset operation will be explained. In reset operation the switch SW A is switched to the Vs side the switch SW B is switched to the Vg off side and the switch SW C is turned on. Consequently the read capacitance Cis reset to the GND potential to prepare for next X ray irradiation.

In this manner one image is acquired. Although not shown whether to perform refresh operation is determined after the end of the reset period. In the timing chart shown in a cycle of X ray irradiation operation transfer operation and reset operation is further executed twice acquiring a total of three images. In determination after acquiring the first and second images it is determined not to perform refresh operation. In determination after acquiring three images it is determined to perform refresh operation. By executing refresh operation the saturation amount of the photoelectric conversion device is initialized. Determination of whether to perform refresh operation will be described later. Note that the conventional radiographic apparatus always executes refresh operation after acquiring one image without determining whether to perform refresh operation.

The operation of the photoelectric conversion device shown in will be explained with reference to . is a timing chart showing the operation of the photoelectric conversion device.

The operation during the refresh period will be described. In the refresh period all signals in the shift register SR are set to Hi and the CRES signal of the read circuit unit is set to Hi . This corresponds to switching of the switch SW B to the Vg off side and ON operation of the switch SW C in the circuit of one pixel shown in . As a result all the switching TFTs T to T are turned on the switching devices REST to RES within the read circuit unit are also turned on and the G electrodes of the photoelectric conversion devices S to S change to the GND potential. When the control signal VSC is set to Hi the D electrodes of all the photoelectric conversion devices are biased to the refresh power supply Vref negative potential . Thus all the photoelectric conversion devices S to S enter the refresh mode and are refreshed.

The photoelectric conversion period will be described. In the photoelectric conversion period the control signal VSC is switched to Lo . This corresponds to switching of the switch SW A to the Vs side in the circuit of one pixel shown in . Accordingly the D electrodes of all the photoelectric conversion devices S to S are biased to the read power supply Vs positive potential and the photoelectric conversion devices enter the photoelectric conversion mode.

Then all the signals of the shift register SR are changed to Lo and the CRES signal of the read circuit unit is changed to Lo . As a result all the switching TFTs T to T are turned off the switching devices RES to RES within the read circuit unit are also turned off and the G electrodes of the photoelectric conversion devices S to S is set open for the DC current. However the photoelectric conversion devices also function as capacitances and hold the potential. At this time no light X rays enters the photoelectric conversion devices and no charge is created i.e. no current flows.

When the light source is turned on like pulses the D electrodes N electrodes of the photoelectric conversion devices are irradiated with light and a so called photocurrent flows. The photocurrent which flows in response to light is stored as charges in the photoelectric conversion devices and held even after the light source is turned off. Note that the light source is not particularly illustrated in but is literally an X ray source for the X ray imaging apparatus. In this case an X ray to visible conversion scintillator is adopted. The present invention can also be applied to an imaging apparatus other than the X ray imaging apparatus and the light source upon application to a copying machine is a fluorescent light LED halogen light or the like.

The read period will be explained. The read period also includes the reset period shown in . In the read period read is done in an order of the photoelectric conversion devices S to S on the first row the photoelectric conversion devices S to S on the second row and the photoelectric conversion devices S to S on the third row. In order to read from the photoelectric conversion devices S to S on the first row a gate pulse is applied from the shift register SR to the gate wiring line G of the switching devices TFTs T to T . The high level of the gate pulse is the externally applied voltage Vcom as described above. As a result the switching devices T to T are turned on and signal charges stored in the photoelectric conversion devices S to S are transferred to the signal wiring lines M to M. The signal charges transferred to the signal wiring lines M to M are amplified by the amplifiers A to A. Although not shown in read capacitances are added to the signal wiring lines M to M and signal charges are transferred to the read capacitances via the TFTs. For example a read capacitance added to the signal wiring line M is a total of three capacitances Cgs between the gate and source electrodes of TFTs which constitute the switching devices T to T connected to the signal wiring line M. The total capacitance corresponds to the read capacitance Cin .

The SMPL signal is enabled and transferred to the sample and hold capacitances CL to CL and then the SMPL signal is disabled and held. Pulses are applied from the shift register SR to the switches Sr Sr and Sr in an order named and the signals held by the sample and hold capacitances CL to CL are output as Vout from the amplifier Ab to the A D conversion circuit unit in an order of the sample and hold capacitances CL CL and CL. Consequently photoelectrically converted signals from one row of the photoelectric conversion devices S S and S are sequentially output. The CRES signal is enabled simultaneously when a pulse is applied from the shift register SR to the switch Sr thereby resetting the signal wiring lines M to M to the GND potential. This corresponds to ON operation reset period of the switch SW C in the circuit of one pixel shown in .

After the signal wiring lines M to M are reset to the GND potential a gate pulse is applied from the shift register SR to the gate wiring line G of the switching devices TFTs T to T in order to read from the photoelectric conversion devices S to S on the second row. In this way read operation of the photoelectric conversion devices S to S on the second row and read operation of the photoelectric conversion devices S to S on the third row are successively executed. By sampling and holding the signals of the signal wiring lines M to M in the sample and hold capacitances CL to CL signal charges in the photoelectric conversion devices S to S and S to S on the second and third rows can be transferred using the shift register SR while serial conversion operation of signals from the first and second rows is done using the shift register SR.

By the above operation signal charges of all the photoelectric conversion devices on the first to third rows can be output acquiring one still image. In order to acquire a succeeding moving image a cycle of the photoelectric conversion period and read period including the reset period is further repeated twice without performing refresh operation acquiring a total of three image data. After the first and second still images are acquired whether to perform refresh operation to be described later is determined. In this case the result of not performing refresh operation is obtained.

Determination of whether to perform refresh operation will be explained. This determination is executed by e.g. the image processor . is a flowchart showing a method in which the image processor determines whether to execute refresh in the first embodiment. are tables showing an example of image data output from the A D conversion unit to the image processor and the progress of the process in the first embodiment when the photoelectric conversion device shown in is driven in accordance with the timing chart shown in . The numerical values in are given in volt. shows the layout of 3 3 pixels but show an expanded layout of 8 8 pixels.

If image data is input to the image processor step S the image processor generates an integrated image sum step S . When image data of frame is input no integrated data has existed and integrated image sum frame . Hence actual integration is done from frame .

The image processor extracts a maximum output max from the integrated image sum step S . Then the image processor compares the maximum output max with a preset threshold step S . In this case the threshold is 80 of the saturation amount and when the saturation amount is 3 V as described above the threshold is 2.4 V. If the maximum output max is smaller than the threshold imaging continues. If the maximum output max is equal to or larger than the threshold the integrated image sum is cleared to 0 step S and refresh operation is performed.

If image data shown in is actually obtained step S integrated image sum frame step S . In extraction of the maximum value max for frame step S 0.83 V data of a pixel hatched at the periphery in is extracted. In comparison with the threshold step S the threshold 2.4 V max 0.83 V and imaging of a moving image continues without performing refresh operation.

If image data of frame is input step S integrated image sum frame frame . In extraction of the maximum value max for frame step S 1.55 V is extracted. In comparison with the threshold step S the threshold 2.4 V max 1.55 V and imaging of a moving image continues again.

If image data of frame is input step S integrated image sum frame frame frame . In extraction of the maximum value max for frame step S 2.42 V is extracted. In comparison with the threshold step S the threshold 2.4 V max 2.42 V the integrated image sum is cleared to 0 step S and then refresh operation is executed.

Note that the threshold need not be 80 of the saturation amount and can be properly set in accordance with the radiation dose image output per image.

In this fashion the first embodiment can reduce three refresh operations for three imaging operations performed in the conventional radiographic apparatus to one refresh operation by generating an integrated image and comparing its maximum value with a threshold set on the basis of the saturation amount. The wait time can be shortened in correspondence with the number of omitted refresh operations increasing the frame frequency. As shown in the conventional radiographic apparatus requires the refresh period every imaging and also requires the accompanying wait time decreasing the frame frequency. To the contrary the first embodiment can reduce the frequency at which refresh is executed and can increase the frame frequency.

Although it is ideal to sweep all holes when holes within the i layer are swept in the refresh mode even sweeping of some holes can provide a sufficient current. It suffices that the i layer is not in a saturation state as shown in in a detection occasion in the next photoelectric conversion mode. The potential of the D electrode to the G electrode in the refresh mode the period of the refresh mode and the characteristics of the injection blocking layer of the N layer are so determined as to satisfy the above condition. Further injection of electrons into the i layer is not a requirement in the refresh mode and the potential of the D electrode to the G electrode is not limited to a negative potential. This is because when many holes stay in the i layer the electric field within the i layer is added to a direction to which holes are guided to the D electrode even if the potential of the D electrode to the G electrode is positive. Similarly injection of electrons into the i layer is not a requirement for the characteristics of the N layer serving as the injection blocking layer.

The second embodiment of the present invention will be described. The second embodiment is different from the first embodiment in the method in which the image processor determines whether to perform refresh operation. is a flowchart showing the method in which an image processor determines whether to execute refresh in the second embodiment. are tables showing an example of image data output from an A D conversion unit to the image processor and the progress of the process in the second embodiment. Note that shows the layout of 3 3 pixels but show an expanded layout of 8 8 pixels similar to the first embodiment.

In the second embodiment if image data is input to the image processor step S the image processor converts 8 8 image data into 4 4 image data by averaging image data step S . More specifically the average of 2 2 upper left pixels having addresses of x 1 y 1 to x 2 y 2 out of 8 8 image data is calculated and stored at the upper left address x 1 y 1 of newly created 4 4 image data. Similarly the average of 2 2 image data having addresses of x 1 y 3 to x 2 y 4 is calculated and stored at x y 2 of the 4 4 image data. This process is done for all the 8 8 pixel data. With this process a noise component is removed from input image data obtaining more accurate image data.

Thereafter similar to the first embodiment generation of an integrated image step S extraction of the maximum output max step S and comparison with the threshold and determination step S are performed using the 4 4 image data after the averaging process. If a frame exceeding the threshold appears the integrated image sum is cleared to 0 and refresh operation is executed.

If image data shown in is actually obtained step S the average 0.66 of the four pixels x 1 y 1 to x 2 y 2 and the like are sequentially calculated in the averaging process step S for frame and the 8 8 pixel data frame is converted into 4 4 pixel data frame step S . Integrated image sum frame step S and 0.97 V is extracted in extraction of the maximum value max step S for the next frame . In comparison with the threshold step S the threshold 2.4 V max 0.97 V and imaging of a moving image continues without performing refresh operation.

As shown in the same process is done for frame . In the process for frame shown in the threshold 2.4 V max 2.41 V in step S the integrated image sum is cleared to 0 step S and then refresh operation is executed.

According to the second embodiment even if a pixel whose single pixel data stands out owing to e.g. noise exists the pixel is averaged and subsequent extraction of the maximum output is stably done. Note that the method of the averaging process is not limited to one described in the second embodiment and any method can be employed as far as noise can be reduced.

The third embodiment of the present invention will be described. The first and second embodiments perform a process using all pixel data output from the photoelectric conversion device. The third embodiment allows the user to arbitrarily select a region necessary to determine refresh. are schematic views showing the operation of an X ray imaging apparatus according to the third embodiment of the present invention.

When the chest of a human body undergoes X ray imaging an image as shown in is displayed on a display . For this image outputs in the lateral direction at the center are plotted to obtain a graph as shown in . As shown in an output at a graph center is low and an output at a periphery is high because of the following reason. The graph center corresponds to an output of X rays having passed through the imaged chest of the human body and X rays are absorbed by the chest of the human body decreasing the amount of X rays incident on a photoelectric conversion circuit unit . To the contrary the periphery does not have any absorber in comparison with the graph center and is transparent to X rays and a large amount of X rays are directly incident on the photoelectric conversion device. A portion the radiographer requires for actual diagnosis is a portion at the graph center at which X rays are absorbed by the chest and the output is low. A portion at the periphery at which the output is high is an area unnecessary for diagnosis.

If the maximum output value is extracted from the whole image in determining refresh of the photoelectric conversion device a value obtained from the periphery as the non object region exhibiting a high output is extracted and it may be determined to perform refresh though the center actually used for diagnosis still has a large detectable remaining amount with respect to the saturation amount of the photoelectric conversion device.

In this situation the third embodiment allows the user to arbitrarily select a region used for determination of refresh by the radiographer and a diagnosis area corresponding to the graph center can be selected as shown in . By this selection the maximum output value is extracted from the diagnosis area and determination of refresh is executed. Hence no refresh is unnecessarily performed the number of refresh operations is further decreased and a moving image having a higher frame frequency can be obtained.

The embodiments of the present invention can be realized by e.g. executing a program by a computer. A unit for supplying a program to a computer for example a computer readable recording medium e.g. a CD ROM which records the program or a transmission medium e.g. the Internet which transmits the program can also be applied as an embodiment of the present invention. The program can also be applied as an embodiment of the present invention. The program recording medium transmission medium and program product fall within the scope of the present invention.

As many apparently widely different embodiments of the present invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope thereof it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments thereof except as defined in the claims.

