---

title: Missile boost-ballistic estimator
abstract: A hostile missile engager senses the missile and supplies kinematic data to an interceptor missile fire control processor, which predicts the target's future location with the aid of a powered/unpowered identifier. The identifier passes the kinematic data through filters having lags for powered and unpowered operation, to produce residuals and residual covariances. The probabilities of powered and unpowered motion are determined, and thresholded. If the probability of powered motion or unpowered motion exceeds its threshold, the motion is deemed known. If the target is deemed to be powered, a set of the three-dimensional kinematic features is applied to a nine-state Kalman filter to produce an optimal state. If the target missile is unpowered, a set of the three-dimensional kinematic features corresponding to the second lag is applied to a six-state Kalman filter to produce an optimal state for the unpowered motion. The optimal states control the interceptor toward the target.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07663528&OS=07663528&RS=07663528
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 07663528
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080320
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract Grant N00024 03 C 6110 awarded by the Department of the Navy. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

Modern transportation and military systems place great reliance on systems for tracking airborne or flying objects. In the context of transportation air traffic control requires that the locations of aircraft be known preferably with great precision. U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 009 554 and 7 180 443 issued Mar. 7 2006 and Feb. 20 2007 respectively in the name of Mookerjee et al. describe tracking systems generally. In the context of military systems there is a need to track missiles both friendly and hostile and which may be either unpowered ballistic or powered boost . U.S. Pat. No. 7 026 980 issued Apr. 11 2006 in the name of Mavroudakis et al. describes a system for identifying and tracking a target missile. A missile tracking system described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 879 538 filed Jul. 18 2007 in the name of Luu et al. describes a system which estimates the location of a missile. Luu et al. make use of a staging logic and early thrust termination function for determining the boost or ballistic state to improve the accuracy of their estimator. A system and method for tracking and engaging a hostile missile is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 868 554 filed Oct. 8 2007 in the name of Luu et al. This system and method also attempts to determine the boost or ballistic state of the missile being tracked. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 253 309 filed Oct. 19 2005 in the name of Wolf now U.S. Pat. No. 7 295 149 describes a system including a radar sensor a hostile missile an interceptor missile a boost ballistic determination arrangement and an interceptor controller using the boost ballistic determination to aid in interceptor guidance.

It will be clear that an accurate estimate of the location and path of a target missile to be engaged by an interceptor missile requires some knowledge of the boost and ballistic operating condition of the target missile. Improved and or alternative boost ballistic estimating arrangements are desired.

A method according to an aspect of the invention is for engaging a target missile with an interceptor missile. The method comprises the steps of sensing three dimensional or full kinematic features including at least position of the target missile to thereby generate sensed kinematic data. The kinematic data includes position which is at least one of slant range bearing and elevation. The current value of the three dimensional kinematic features is or are stored together with a set of previous values of the three dimensional kinematic features. At least a portion of the current value of the sensed kinematic data is passed through a first filter having a fixed first filter lag. The first filter is suited for maneuver motion of the missile and generates first residuals and first residual covariances. At least a portion of the current value of the sensed kinematic data is passed through a second filter having a fixed second filter lag. The second filter is suited for non maneuver motion of the missile to generate second residuals and second residual covariances. From the first residuals the first residual covariances the second residuals and the second residual covariances the probability of being in maneuvering motion and the probability of being in non maneuvering motion are determined. The probability of being in maneuvering motion tends toward unity when the target missile is in maneuvering motion and tends toward zero when the target missile is in non maneuvering motion. The probability of being in non maneuvering motion tends toward unity when the target missile is in non maneuvering motion and tends toward zero when the target missile is in maneuvering motion. The probability of being in maneuvering motion and the probability of being in non maneuvering motion are compared with at least one threshold value The target missile is deemed to be in maneuvering motion if the probability of being in maneuvering motion exceeds the threshold value and the target missile is deemed to be in non maneuvering motion if the probability of being in non maneuvering motion exceeds the threshold value. If the target missile is deemed to be in maneuvering motion a set of the three dimensional kinematic features corresponding to the first lag is applied to a nine state Kalman filter to produce an optimal state for the maneuvering motion. The nine states of the nine state Kalman filter correspond with three position states three velocity states and three acceleration states. If the target missile is deemed to be in non maneuvering motion a set of the three dimensional kinematic features corresponding to the second lag is applied to a six state Kalman filter to produce an optimal state for the non maneuvering motion. The six states of the six state Kalman filter correspond to three position states and three velocity states. The optimal states are applied to at least a a missile engagement planner for initialization of interceptor guidance and b to an interceptor for guidance of the interceptor toward the target missile.

A method according to an aspect of the invention is for estimating or determining transitions between powered and unpowered motion of a target missile. The method comprises the steps of sensing three dimensional kinematic features of the target. The three dimensional kinematic features include position which includes at least one of slant range bearing and elevation. The sensing of the three dimensional kinematic features generates sensed kinematic data. The current value of the full set of three dimensional kinematic features is stored in a memory which may be a computer memory together with a set of previous values of the full three dimensional kinematic features. At least a portion of the current value of the sensed kinematic data is passed through a first filter having a fixed first filter lag the first filter being suited for or matching powered motion of the missile to thereby generate first residuals and first residual covariances. At least a portion of the current value of the sensed kinematic data is passed through a second filter having a fixed second filter lag. The second filter is suited for or matching non powered motion of the missile to generate second residuals and second residual covariances. From the first residuals the first residual covariances the second residuals and the second residual covariances determining the probability of being in powered motion and the probability of being in non powered motion which probability of being in powered motion tends toward unity when the missile is in powered motion and tends toward zero when the missile is in non powered motion and which probability of being in non powered motion tends toward unity when the missile is in non powered motion and tends toward zero when the missile is in powered motion. The probability of being in powered motion and the probability of being in non powered motion are compared with at least one threshold value to thereby deem the missile to be in powered motion if the probability of being in powered motion exceeds the threshold value and to deem the missile to be in non powered motion if the probability of being in non powered motion exceeds the threshold value. If the missile is deemed to be in powered motion a set of the full or three dimensional kinematic features corresponding to the first lag are applied to a nine state position velocity acceleration Kalman filter to produce an optimal state for the powered motion. If the missile is deemed to be in non powered motion a set of the three dimensional or full kinematic features corresponding to the second lag are applied to a six state Kalman filter three position states and three velocity states to produce an optimal state for the non powered motion.

A method according to another aspect of the invention is for estimating or determining transitions between ACM Attitude Control Module and non ACM motion of an airborne vehicle. The method comprises the steps of sensing three dimensional kinematic features including position which is at least one of slant range bearing and elevation of the target to thereby generate sensed kinematic data. The method includes the steps of storing as in computer memory the current value of the three dimensional or full kinematic features and a set of previous values of the three dimensional kinematic features. At least a portion of the current value of the sensed kinematic data is passed through a first filter having a fixed first filter lag. The first filter is suited for ACM motion of the vehicle to generate first residuals and first residual covariances. At least a portion of the current value of the sensed kinematic data is passed through a second filter having a fixed second filter lag. The second filter is suited for non ACM motion of the vehicle to generate second residuals and second residual covariances. From a the first residuals the b first residual covariances c the second residuals and d the second residual covariances the probability of being in ACM motion and the probability of being in non ACM motion are determined. The probability of being in ACM motion tends toward unity when the vehicle is in ACM motion and tends toward zero when the vehicle is in non ACM motion. The probability of being in non ACM motion tends toward unity when the vehicle is in non ACM motion and tends toward zero when the vehicle is in ACM motion. The probability of being in ACM motion and the probability of being in non ACM motion are compared with at least one threshold value. The vehicle is deemed to be in ACM motion if the probability of being in ACM motion exceeds the threshold value and is deemed to be in non ACM motion if the probability of being in non ACM motion exceeds the threshold value. If the vehicle is deemed to be in ACM motion a set of the three dimensional full kinematic features corresponding to the first lag is applied to a nine state Kalman filter to thereby produce an optimal state for the ACM motion. If the vehicle is deemed to be in non ACM motion a set of the three dimensional full kinematic features corresponding to the second lag is applied to a six state Kalman filter three position states and three velocity states to produce an optimal state for the non ACM motion.

In a system includes a radar with an antenna . Radar generates electromagnetic signals which are transmitted by antenna as suggested by lightning bolt . If there is a target within range of the radar a portion of the transmitted signals will be reflected back toward the radar. In this case a target illustrated as a missile is present. Missile may be in powered boost flight or it may be in unpowered ballistic flight. In any case target causes reflected or return signals return along the same path illustrated as to the radar system. The radar system processes the reflected signals to produce information relating to at least target slant range and possibly bearing and elevation. These are referred to as kinematic features of the target. The kinematic features appear at an output port of radar and are coupled to an interceptor missile fire control system . Fire control system estimates the actual current location of the target missile and estimates its trajectory or path . Fire control system generates fire control solutions initiates the interceptor missile while it is still at the interceptor launcher . Fire control system commands a launch of the interceptor missile and also tracks the location of the interceptor missile . Fire control system guides the interceptor toward the expected intercept point after launch.

In the sensor measurements block represents the receipt of signals by way of path from radar of and by way of a path from another source designated Overhead Non Imaging InfraRed ONIR . The sensor measurements are applied to a track filter which multihypothesis track filter combines a priori knowledge of the characteristics of various possible types of threat missiles with the track data from the sensors to establish separate estimates of the target hypotheses states at least position and velocity for n possible hypotheses. A multihypothesis track filter maintains separate filters for each hypothesis and uses a priori information about each hypothesis to improve the state estimates for each hypothesis over by comparison with a filter that uses no a priori information. One implementation of a multihypothesis filter is found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 072 902 filed Mar. 4 2005 in the name of Mavroudakis et al. and entitled Missile Identification and Tracking System and Method now U.S. Pat. No. 7 026 980. The separate estimates consisting of n possible threat stage hypotheses appear at output ports . . . n of the track filter and are made available to a typing processor represented as a block and to a target propagator represented as a block . Typing algorithm or block uses multiple metrics to determine the likelihood that each hypothesis is correct. These likelihoods sum to unity or one and this summing characteristic is later used to generate weighting factors for each threat hypothesis. The track filter states from track filter block of and the likelihoods from typing block are applied to a multihypothesis target propagator block . Target propagator block propagates into the future all those threat hypotheses having likelihoods above a threshold level. In one version of the target propagator the threshold level is fixed. As illustrated in target propagator block produces n m propagated threat states where m is the number of hypotheses with likelihoods falling below the threshold. Significant computational resource savings arise from not propagating the low likelihood threat states. Early in an engagement little track data is available from which the track filter can produce estimated track states so there is little information on which to base the discarding of hypotheses so most or all hypotheses are propagated. As more data becomes available from the sensors the typing block is expected to be able to discount certain hypotheses and to assign low probabilities to other hypotheses. The propagated multihypothesis threat states from target propagator block of are applied to an engagement planner illustrated as a block together with the likelihood information from typing block . Engagement planner also receives interceptor missile flyout data or tables from a block illustrated as . Engagement planner uses a subset of the hypotheses to determine an optimal way to engage the target. In order to conserve computational resources the engagement planner ignores those hypotheses having likelihoods below the threshold. The optimal engagement information is coupled to initialize an interceptor guidance processing illustrated as a block . Interceptor guidance block of receives optimal engagement information from block propagated threat missile states from likelihood information from block and interceptor state information from a block . The interceptor state information contains information describing the state of the interceptor such as position velocity and acceleration at the time that the interceptor guidance function block is entered from block . Interceptor guidance block estimates the location of the target at the time of intercept. Launch and intercept guidance commands are applied from interceptor guidance block to the interceptor . The intercept guidance commands are preferably based on a boost ballistic phase guidance algorithm which uses the propagated hypothesis positions and likelihoods to estimate the location of the target at intercept. During guidance a composite track is formed or generated that represents a weighted average position of the hypotheses. The weighted average position is a function of each threat hypothesis position and its associated likelihood. During the course of an engagement the target state and hypothesis likelihoods are updated as more information becomes available. The track filter the target propagator the engagement planner and the interceptor guidance all take advantage of the new data to refine their solutions.

The output at port of first filter block of represents the first residuals and the first residual covariances of the filtered data and these are coupled by way of a path to a first input port of a processor illustrated as a block . The output at port of second filter block of represents the second residuals and the second residual covariances of the filtered data and these are coupled by way of a path to a second input port of processor .

Processor of receives the first residuals and first residual covariances at input port and receives the second residuals and the second residual covariances at input port . Processor processes the information and produces a at an output port a measure or indication of the probability that the target missile is in a powered state and b at an output port a measure or indication of the probability that the target missile is in an unpowered state. The signal appearing at output port representing the probability of being in powered motion tends toward unity when the missile is in powered motion and tends toward zero when the missile is in non powered motion. The signal appearing at output port representing the probability of being in unpowered motion tends toward unity when the missile is in non powered motion and tends toward zero when the missile is in powered motion.

The signal representing the probability that the missile is in powered flight which appears at output port of block of is coupled to a threshold function illustrated as a block . Threshold function compares the signal with a threshold value to make a determination PWR as to whether the missile is in powered flight or not. Similarly the signal representing the probability that the missile is in unpowered flight which appears at output port is coupled to a threshold function illustrated as a block . Threshold function compares the signal with a threshold value to make a determination as to whether the missile is in unpowered flight or not. By nature of the processor the probability that the missile is in powered flight is one 1 minus the probability that the missile is in unpowered flight. Similarly the probability that the missile is in unpowered flight is one 1 minus the probability that the missile is in powered flight.

Regardless of whether the missile is in powered or unpowered flight both a 9 State Kalman powered filter designated and a 6 State Kalman unpowered filter designated begin track filtering by initializing with the kinematic data accessed via paths and respectively from data memory . Filtered data from the 9 State Kalman powered motion filter represents position velocity and acceleration in the x direction y direction and z direction x dot over x umlaut over x y dot over y z umlaut over z . The filtered data from the 9 State Kalman powered motion filter is outputted or coupled by way of a path to a 9 State filtered data memory designated and by way of a path to an end user designated if the threshold test determines the missile to be in powered flight. If the threshold test determines that the missile is not in powered flight the filtered data from powered flight filter is not stored or used. Similarly the filtered data from the 6 State Kalman unpowered motion data filter which represents position and velocity in the x direction y direction and z direction x dot over x y dot over y z is sent by way of a path to a 6 state filtered data memory and to the end user if the threshold test designated determines the missile to be in unpowered flight and is not stored or used if the threshold test determines that the missile is not in unpowered flight.

First powered motion detector and second unpowered motion detector of continually filter the raw data provided by radar . Prior to a time at which the missile changes from unpowered flight to powered flight 6 state filter will have been filtering the data and storing information in 6 state memory . When missile changes from unpowered flight to powered flight threshold test block alerts the 9 state Kalman powered motion filter via path . The 9 state Kalman filter for powered motion will access the 6 state filtered data memory via path for the filtered data provided at t lag where t lag represents the current time minus the lag duration. This data initializes the 9 State powered flight filter with the most accurate available data. The raw data in memory will be accessed by the 9 state Kalman filter for the data points in the interval from t lag to the current time and filters the data and continually sends the filtered data to the end user . This condition continues until the missile switches from powered motion to unpowered motion and the threshold test alerts the change. The 6 State Kalman filter for unpowered motion will then access the t lag data stored in the 9 state filtered data memory via link and initialize using the t lag stored data. Six state Kalman filter then continues to filter the data in the interval from t lag to the current time data which is stored in memory and provides filtered data to end user .

In the Power Detector includes two range filters a range detector filter and a range detector filter . A fixed lag is used in filtering. Likelihood functions then utilize the filter outputs to calculate probabilities. The Power Detector predictor equations for detector filter range direction are where ris the current predicted position data point ris the most recent corrected position data point dot over r is the most recent corrected velocity data point The power detector detector filter gain equations in the x direction are given by

A sliding window memory is maintained in block consisting of current data values as well as a set number of historical points. Specifically the measurement values for position and velocity x y z and dot over x dot over y are maintained. Current range values are also found in the memory.

The Optimal tracking filters include two optimal tracking filters and . Filter is an optimal filter for x y and z measurements and the other 32 filter is an optimal filter for dot over x dot over y and z measurements. The filter accesses the data from the 9 State Filtered Data Memory and the filter accessed the data from the 6 State Filtered Data Memory once the powered detector has detected that the vehicle has transitioned between the states of powered and unpowered.

The Optimal filter optimal filter predictor equations in the x direction are the Optimal tracking filter filter gain equations in the x direction are

where i 1 for the filter for mode i 2 for the filter mode and n observation time. Then can be described by

For the case of optimal gains in optimal gains track filtering the lag must be evaluated using the standard deviation of measurement error variance denoted here by . In the filter the optimal lag may be equated as

In the case of the optimal filters measurement error must be calculated in order to determine the lag. The measurement error in Cartesian coordinates is

 are used in calculating optimal lag which in turn is used to calculate the optimal filter gains for filter and filter.

