---

title: Implants for securing spinal fixation elements
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention provide an implant having a protrusion. The protrusion aids in the insertion and placement of the implant as well as the spinal fixation element. In certain embodiments the protrusion may be configured as a guide for the insertion of the spinal fixation element as well as closure mechanisms for connecting the spinal fixation element to the implant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09504494&OS=09504494&RS=09504494
owner: DEPUY SYNTHES PRODUCTS, INC.
number: 09504494
owner_city: Raynham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080428
---
The present invention relates to connector devices and methods for use during orthopedic surgery. More particularly the present invention relates to implants for securing spinal fixation elements SFE using minimally invasive surgical techniques.

Spinal fixation systems may be used in surgery to align adjust and or fix portions of a spinal column i.e. vertebrae in a desired spatial relationship relative to each other. Many spinal fixation systems employ a spinal rod for supporting the spine and for properly positioning components of the spine for various treatment purposes. Implants such as vertebral bone anchors comprising pins bolts screws and hooks engage the vertebrae and connect the supporting spinal rod to different vertebrae. Spinal rods can be anchored to specific portions of the vertebra. Since each vertebra varies in shape and size a variety of anchoring devices have been developed to facilitate engagement of a particular portion of the bone.

Pedicle screw assemblies for example have a shape and size that is configured to engage pedicle bone. Such screws typically include a threaded shank that is adapted to be threaded into a vertebra and a head portion having a spinal fixation element receiving portion which in spinal rod applications is usually in the form of a U shaped slot formed in the head portion for receiving the rod. A set screw plug cap or similar type of closure mechanism is used to lock the rod into the rod receiving portion of the pedicle screw.

In conventional spinal surgery first anchoring devices are attached to vertebra and then a spinal rod is aligned with the anchoring devices and secured. For example for conventional pedicle screw assemblies first the engagement portion of each pedicle screw is threaded into a vertebra. Once the pedicle screw assembly is properly positioned a spinal fixation rod is connected in the rod receiving portion of each pedicle screw head. The rod is locked into place by tightening a cap or similar type of closure mechanism to securely interconnect each pedicle screw to the fixation rod. This type of conventional spinal surgical technique usually involves making a surgical access opening in the back of the patient that is almost as long as the length of the spinal rod to be implanted. Because exact placement of the screw assemblies depends on a patient s particular bone structure and bone quality the exact position of all screw assemblies cannot be known until after all the assemblies are positioned. Adjustments such as bending are made to the spinal rod to ensure that it aligns with each screw assembly.

Recently the trend in spinal surgery has been moving toward providing minimally invasive surgical MIS devices and methods for implanting spinal fixation elements. In minimally invasive surgical techniques the anchors and rod are typically inserted through small incisions. For example the anchors and rod may be delivered percutaneously to an implant site through a small access port such as a cannula. In other methodologies a mini open technique may be used to place the spinal fixation system.

However such minimally invasive procedures introduce other issues. Because the bone anchors and spinal fixation element are inserted through small incisions such as percutaneous there is reduced visibility of the surgical site. Placement and mating of the implants and spinal fixation element becomes more difficult when there is no direct view of the surgical site. Thus what is needed is a means for being able to accurately place and mate a spinal fixation element and implants along a patient s spine when using minimally invasive surgical techniques.

Embodiments of the present invention provide an implant having a protrusion. The protrusion aids in the insertion and placement of the implant as well as the spinal fixation element. In certain embodiments the protrusion may be configured as a guide for the insertion of the spinal fixation element as well as closure mechanisms for connecting the spinal fixation element to the implant.

In accordance with a first aspect an implant is provided for use in a minimally invasive spinal fixation. The implant includes a bone anchor a connector body and a protrusion. The bone anchor has a proximal head and a distal shaft extending along a longitudinal axis configured to engage bone. The connector body is configured to engage the proximal head of bone anchor and engage a spinal fixation element and includes a cavity for receiving the proximal head of the bone anchor and a seat for receiving the spinal fixation element. The protrusion extends from the connector body along a longitudinal axis opposite and offset of the distal shaft of the bone anchor and defines a stop at one end of the seat.

In certain embodiments the implant further comprises a cap for connecting a spinal fixation element to the connector body of the implant. The cap is configured to be inserted along the protrusion extending from the connector body. A locking mechanism may further be used to secure the cap and spinal fixation element to the connector body.

In accordance with another aspect another implant is provided for use in a minimally invasive spinal fixation. The implant includes a bone anchor a connector body and a detachable post. The bone anchor has a proximal head and a distal shaft extending along a longitudinal axis configured to engage bone. The connector body includes a cavity and a saddle. The cavity is configured to receive the proximal head of the bone anchor. The saddle defines a seat for receiving the spinal fixation element. The detachable post extends from the connector body along a longitudinal axis opposite and offset of the distal shaft of the bone anchor and defines a stop at one end of the seat.

In accordance with another aspect another implant is provided for use in a minimally invasive spinal fixation. The implant includes a bone anchor a connector body and a detachable guide tab. The bone anchor has a proximal head and a distal shaft extending along a longitudinal axis configured to engage bone. The connector body includes a cavity and a saddle. The cavity is configured to receive the proximal head of the bone anchor. The saddle defines a seat for receiving the spinal fixation element. The detachable guide tab extends from the connector body along a longitudinal axis opposite and offset of the distal shaft of the bone anchor and defines a stop at one end of the seat. The detachable guide tab also includes surface configuration for engaging a saddle a cap a locking mechanism and or an instrument.

Certain exemplary embodiments will now be described to provide an overall understanding of the principles of the structure function manufacture and use of the devices and methods disclosed herein. One or more examples of these embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Those skilled in the art will understand that the devices and methods specifically described herein and illustrated in the accompanying drawings are non limiting exemplary embodiments and that the scope of the present invention is defined solely by the claims. The features illustrated or described in connection with one exemplary embodiment may be combined with the features of other embodiments. Such modifications and variations are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention.

Exemplary embodiments described herein concern implants for securing spinal fixation elements and methods of use. As such exemplary embodiments of implants may be formed of suitable materials for use in a human body. Suitable materials include but are not limited to stainless steel titanium PEEK or the like. Exemplary embodiments of implants are particularly suited for use in rod first spinal surgical techniques. Exemplary embodiments of implants may be sized and dimensioned for insertion through a minimally invasive surgical access port such as a cannula.

An example of one embodiment of a suitable implant can be seen in . In this example the implant includes a bone anchor a connector body and a protrusion . In certain embodiments a saddle a cap and a locking mechanism may also be included. depicts a perspective view showing the individual parts of the implant . depicts a perspective view showing the implant assembled.

The bone anchor comprises a connector portion illustrated as a proximal anchor head for coupling the bone anchor to the connector body and an anchoring portion illustrated as a distal shaft configured to engage bone. The distal shaft of the bone anchor extends along a longitudinal axis . The distal shaft may include one or more bone engagement mechanisms to facilitate gripping engagement of the bone anchor to bone. In the illustrated embodiment the distal shaft includes an external thread extending along at least a portion of the shaft for engaging bone. In the illustrated embodiment the external thread is a single lead thread that extends from a distal tip of the shaft to the anchor head though one skilled in the art will recognize that the external thread may extend along any selected portion of the shaft and have any suitable number of leads. Other suitable bone engagement mechanisms include but are not limited to one or more annular ridges multiple threads single lead threads variable pitched threads and or any conventional bone engagement mechanism.

The anchor head of the bone anchor may be configured to facilitate adjustment of the bone anchor relative to the connector body of the implant . For example the illustrative anchor head may be substantially spherical to permit pivoting of the bone anchor relative to the connector body in one or more selected directions. In some embodiments the anchor head may also have surface texturing knurling and or ridges.

In this example the connector body forms a seat for receiving a spinal fixation element. A cavity passes through the connector body and is configured for receiving the bone anchor and engaging the proximal head of the bone anchor .

The connector body receives the proximal head of the bone anchor in the cavity to couple the bone anchor thereto. The connector body receives a spinal fixation element in the seat defined by the connector body thereby coupling the spinal fixation element engaged by the connector body to the bone anchor .

The cavity of the connector body is configured to interact with the spherical shape of the proximal head of the bone anchor to allow the bone anchor to rotate and pivot independently of the connecter body and thus provides a polyaxial implant . Likewise once the distal shaft of the bone anchor has been implanted in a bone the interaction of the cavity and proximal head allow the connecter body to be positioned to engage a spinal fixation element as seen in .

In the example the protrusion is a post that extends from the connector body in the longitudinal axis opposite and offset of the distal shaft of the bone anchor . The protrusion also defines a stop at one end of the seat . Having the protrusion offset provides access to the proximal head of the bone anchor for inserting and adjusting the bone anchor . Having the protrusion offset and defining a stop at one end of the seat leaves the opposite end open for receiving the spinal fixation device . This allows for side and top loading of a spinal fixation element upon the seat while still providing a guide for locating the spinal fixation element along a patient s spine not shown . Thus when the spinal fixation device hits the stop defined by the protrusion the user knows the spinal fixation device is properly positioned on the seat .

In this example the protrusion further includes threads for engaging a closure mechanism such as a locking nut . In certain embodiments the protrusion has a break away feature allowing the protrusion to be detached and removed. Alternatively the protrusion can be detached by cutting the post away from the implant . In still other embodiments the protrusion may be mechanically attached such as through a clamp latch dovetail or the like wherein the protrusion can be detached by disengaging the mechanical attachment. Other possible configurations and techniques will be apparent to one skilled in the art given the benefit of this disclosure.

In some embodiments the protrusion is configured to extend outside the patient through the patient s skin while providing clear access to the connector body and the proximal head of the bone anchor . In other embodiments the protrusion does not extend outside the patient when inserted. The protrusion may have a number of shapes and configuration allowing for the use of different instruments and closure mechanisms.

In certain embodiments the protrusion may be bendable allowing a surgeon to manipulate the protrusion as necessary to fit a particular implementation. In still other embodiments the protrusion may be radiopaque to assist in placement where direct view of the surgical site is not available.

In certain embodiments the protrusion may have one or more surface configurations for engaging tools spinal fixation elements and or closure mechanisms to further assist in the insertion and guidance of the tools spinal fixation elements and or closure mechanisms. In the example of the surface configuration is a flat face on the otherwise cylindrical post . The flat face on the post aids in the alignment and insertion of the cap .

In the example of the saddle is provided as part of the implant . The saddle is sized and configured to fit inside the cavity in the connector body and define the seat . In use the saddle serves as an interface between proximal head in the cavity of the connector body and a spinal fixation element placed on the seat of the connector body . As such the saddle is shaped to mate with the particular geometries of the proximal head and the spinal fixation element .

In the examples of a closure mechanism in the form of the cap is also provided. The cap is configured to capture a spinal fixation element on the saddle defining the seat of the connector body. The cap includes a hook a pass through hole and a snap fit feature .

The hook is configured to capture and hold the spinal fixation element on the seat of the connector body thereby connecting the spinal fixation element to the implant . An example of this can be seen in . The pass through hole allows the cap to be inserted over post of the implant . In the present example the pass through hole is keyed to match the flat side of the post . Thus the post acts as a guide for the insertion of the cap .

The snap fit feature serves to interlock the cap with the connector body . In this embodiment the snap fit feature of the cap includes a deformable finger having surface configurations . When mated with the connector body the surface configurations engage interlocking surface configurations on the connector body providing a snap fit. The snap fit feature also provides audible and tactile feedback that the cap has captured the spinal fixation element and mated with the connector body .

A locking mechanism may also be provided to secure the connection of the spinal fixation element to the implant . In the present example the locking mechanism is a locking nut configured to engage the threads of the post and secure the cap and spinal fixation element to the connector body . An example of this can be seen in .

In use the connector body may be placed at a surgical site with the protrusion extending outside of the patient. In certain embodiments the posts may be used in the placement of the connector body at the surgical site. The bone anchor may then be inserted through the cavity of the connector body into a vertebra not shown at the surgical site. The bone anchor serves to connect the connector body to the vertebra. The saddle may then be placed onto the proximal head of the bone anchor in the cavity of the connector body . In certain embodiments the implant including the bone anchor connector body and saddle may be pre assembled before insertion and placement at a surgical side. In such embodiments the saddle may be configured to allow access to the proximal head of the bone anchor after the saddle has been inserted to allow for adjustment to the bone anchor .

Once the implant including the bone anchor connector body and post are in place a spinal fixation element may be placed on the seat . The spinal fixation element may be inserted before or after the implant and then placed on the seat . In certain embodiments the spinal fixation element may be inserted through the same incision used to insert the implant . In many instances the implant as well as the spinal fixation element are inserted using minimally invasive surgical techniques. When using minimally invasive surgical techniques visibility of the surgical site may be limited. Thus the post extending out of the patient may provide a useful visual indicator for the position of the implant . As discussed previously the post is offset providing access to the proximal head of the bone anchor for inserting and adjusting the bone anchor . The protrusion also defines a stop at one end of the seat . Having the protrusion offset provides access to the proximal head of the bone anchor for inserting and adjusting the bone anchor . Having the protrusion offset and defining a stop on the seat also allows for side and top loading of a spinal fixation element upon the seat while still providing a guide for locating the spinal fixation element along a patient s spine not shown . Thus when the spinal fixation device hits the stop defined by the protrusion the user knows the spinal fixation device is properly positioned on the seat .

Once the spinal fixation element has been seated on the implant the cap may be inserted to capture and retain the spinal fixation element on the implant . Again the post extending outside the patient may serve as a guide for the insertion of the cap . The cap is placed over the post wherein the post passes through the pass through hole of the cap and slid along the length of the post to the surgical site. As mentioned above the pass through hole of the cap is keyed to the surface configurations of the post so there is only one possible orientation for insertion. Once at the surgical site the hook of the cap captures and retains the spinal fixation element on the seat of the connector body . When the cap is mated to connector body the surface configurations of the deformable finger of the snap fit feature engages the matching configuration on the connector body to provide a snap fit connection as well as audible and tactile feedback to the surgeon.

Although the spinal fixation element may be captured on the seat of the connector body by the cap the spinal fixation element may still be movable on the seat . Likewise as discussed above the connector body is pivotable on the proximal head of the bone anchor . Hence the locking nut is provided to secure the position of the spinal fixation element and connector body . Once the spinal fixation element has been captured by mating the cap to the connector body the locking nut may be inserted over and slid along the length of the post to the surgical site. Locking nut may then engage the threads on the post. When the locking nut is tightened the locking nut pushes against the cap which in turn pushes against and engages the spinal fixation element . The spinal fixation element pushes against the saddle sitting in the cavity of the connector body which in turn pushes against and engages the proximal head of the bone anchor passing through the cavity of the connector body . As such the tightening of the locking nut secures the position of the spinal fixation element and the connector body. In other embodiment the cap could serve to secure position of the spinal fixation element without the need of a locking mechanism .

Once the position of spinal fixation element and connector body have been secured the post may be removed. As discussed previously the post may have a break away feature allowing the post to be detached and removed. In still other embodiments the post may be mechanically attached such as through a clamp latch dovetail or the like wherein the post can be detached by disengaging the mechanical attachment. Alternatively the post can be detached by cutting the post away from the implant .

In the embodiment of the implant has a bone anchor a connector body and a protrusion . In the example depicted in the bone anchor and connector body are already assembled such that the proximal head not shown of the bone anchor is engaged by the cavity of the connector body leaving only the distal shaft of the bone anchor visible. The implant also includes a saddle and a locking cap .

In this example the protrusion is a guide tab that extends from the connector body in the longitudinal axis opposite and offset of the distal shaft of the bone anchor and defines a stop at one end of the seat . The guide tab is configured to extend outside the patient through the patient s skin while providing clear access to the connector body and the proximal head of the bone anchor . Accordingly the guide tab may form a partial cannula extending through the skin wherein the guide tab has a crescent shaped cross section.

The guide tab includes threads for engaging a closure mechanism such as a locking cap . In certain embodiments the guide tab has a break away feature allowing the guide tab to be detached and removed. In still other embodiments the guide tab may be mechanically attached such as through a clamp latch dovetail or the like wherein the guide tab can be detached by disengaging the mechanical attachment. Alternatively the guide tab can be detached by cutting the post away from the implant . Other possible configurations and techniques will be apparent to one skilled in the art given the benefit of this disclosure.

In certain embodiments the guide tab may have one or more surface configurations for engaging tools spinal fixation elements and or closure mechanisms to further assist in the insertion and guidance of the tools spinal fixation elements and or closure mechanisms. In the example of the surface configuration include a dovetail feature that mates with the saddle and locking cap .

In the example of a saddle is provided as part of the implant . The saddle is sized and configured to fit inside the cavity in the connector body and define the seat . In this embodiment the saddle further includes surface configurations for mating with the dovetail feature of the guide tab .

In the examples of a closure mechanism in the form of a locking cap is also provided. The locking cap is configured to capture a spinal fixation element on the saddle defining the seat of the connector body . The locking cap includes a hook a pass through hole a snap fit feature and an integrated locking nut .

The hook is configured to capture and hold the spinal fixation element on the seat of the connector body thereby connecting the spinal fixation element to the implant . An example of this can be seen in . The hook also has external threads for engaging the integrated locking nut . The pass through hole allows the locking cap to be inserted over guide tab of the implant . Thus the guide tab serves to guide the locking cap during insertion. The snap fit feature serves to interlock the locking cap with the connector body . The snap fit feature also provides audible and tactile feedback that the locking cap has captured the spinal fixation element and mated with the connector body .

The locking cap also includes an integrated locking nut . The integrated locking nut is configured to engage the threads of the guide tab and the threads of the hook and secure the locking cap and spinal fixation element to the connector body . An example of this can be seen in .

In use the connector body may be placed at a surgical site with the protrusion extending outside of the patient. In certain embodiments the guide tab may be used in the placement of the connector body at the surgical site. The bone anchor may then be inserted through the cavity of the connector body into a vertebra not shown at the surgical site. The bone anchor thus serves to connect the connector body to the vertebra. The saddle may then be placed onto the proximal head not shown of the bone anchor in the cavity of the connector body . The saddle includes surface configurations designed to mate with the dovetail configurations on the guide tab allowing the guide tab to be used as guide that the saddle may be slide along the length of for insertion. In other embodiments the implant including the bone anchor connector body and saddle may be pre assembled before insertion and placement at a surgical side. The saddle may be configured to allow access to the proximal head not shown of the bone anchor after the saddle has been inserted to allow for adjustment to the bone anchor .

Once the implant including the bone anchor connector body and guide tab are in place a spinal fixation element may be placed on the seat . The spinal fixation element may be inserted before or after the implant and then placed on the seat . In certain embodiments the spinal fixation element may be inserted through the same incision used to insert the implant . In many instances the implant as well as the spinal fixation element is inserted using minimally invasive surgical techniques. When using minimally invasive surgical techniques visibility of the surgical site maybe limited. Thus the guide tab extending out of the patient may provide a useful visual indicator for the position of the implant . The guide tab may also serve as a physical guide for the placement of the spinal fixation element on the seat of the implant . As previously discussed the protrusion also defines a stop at one end of the seat . Thus when the spinal fixation device hits the stop defined by the protrusion the user knows the spinal fixation device is properly positioned on the seat .

Once the spinal fixation element has been seated on the implant the locking cap may be inserted to capture retain and secure the spinal fixation element on the implant . The guide tab extending outside the patient may serve as a guide for the insertion of the locking cap . The locking cap is placed over the guide tab wherein the guide tab passes through the pass through hole of the cap and slid along the length of the guide tab to the surgical site. Once at the surgical site the hook of the locking cap captures and retains the spinal fixation element on the seat of the connector body . When the cap is mated to the connector body the surface configurations of the deformable finger of the snap fit feature is deflected by the saddle and locked into a matching configuration not shown on the connector body to provide a snap fit connection as well as audible and tactile feedback to the surgeon.

The integrated locking nut is provided to secure the locking cap and the position of the spinal fixation element and connector body . Once the spinal fixation element has been captured by mating the locking cap to the connector body the integrated locking nut may be tightened. When the integrated locking nut is tightened the integrated locking nut pushes against the spinal fixation element . The spinal fixation element pushes against the saddle sitting in the cavity of the connector body which in turn pushes against and engages the proximal head not shown of the bone anchor passing through the cavity of the connector body . Thus by tightening the integrated locking nut the locking cap as well as the positions of the spinal fixation element and the connector body are secured.

Once the position of spinal fixation element and connector body have been secured using the integrated locking nut the guide tab may then be removed. As discussed previously the guide tab may have a break away feature allowing the guide tab to be detached and removed. Alternatively the guide tab can be detached by cutting the guide tab away from the implant . In still other embodiments the protrusion may be mechanically attached such as through a clamp latch dovetail or the like wherein the protrusion can be detached by disengaging the mechanical attachment. Other possible implementations and embodiments will be apparent to one skilled in the art given the benefit of this disclosure.

Another embodiment of an implant can be seen in . In this embodiment the implant has a bone anchor a connector body and protrusion . As with the bone anchor and connector body are already assembled such that the proximal head not shown of the bone anchor is engaged by the cavity of the connector body . In this embodiment the implant further includes a saddle a cap a first locking mechanism and a second locking mechanism .

In this example the protrusion is a guide tab that extends from the connector body in the longitudinal axis opposite and offset of the distal shaft of the bone anchor and defining a stop at one end of the seat . The guide tab is configured to extend outside the patient through the patient s skin while providing clear access to the connector body and the proximal head not shown of the bone anchor . Accordingly the guide tab may form a partial cannula extending through the skin wherein the guide tab has a crescent shaped cross section.

The guide tab includes threads for engaging a closure mechanism such as a cap . In certain embodiments the guide tab has a break away feature allowing the guide tab to be detached and removed. In still other embodiments the guide tab may be mechanically attached such as through a clamp latch dovetail or the like wherein the guide tab can be detached by disengaging the mechanical attachment. Alternatively the guide tab can be detached by cutting the post away from the implant . Other possible configurations and techniques will be apparent to one skilled in the art given the benefit of this disclosure.

In certain embodiments the guide tab may have one or surface configurations for engaging tools spinal fixation elements and or closure mechanisms to further assist in the insertion and guidance of the tools spinal fixation elements and or closure mechanisms. In the example of the surface configuration include a dovetail feature that mates with the saddle and cap .

In the example of a saddle is provided as part of the implant . The saddle is sized and configured to fit inside the cavity in the connector body and define the seat . In this embodiment the saddle further includes surface configurations for mating with the dovetail feature of the guide tab .

In the examples of a closure mechanism in the form of a cap is also provided. The cap is configured to capture a spinal fixation element on the saddle defining the seat of the connector body . The cap includes a hook a threaded passage external threads and one or more surface configurations .

The hook is configured to capture and hold the spinal fixation element on the seat of the connector body thereby connecting the spinal fixation element to the implant . An example of this can be seen in . The threaded passage is configured to receive the second locking mechanism . The external threads are configured to engage the first locking mechanism . The surface configurations are for mating with the dovetail feature of the guide tab .

The first locking mechanism is a locking nut. The first locking mechanism is configured to be placed over the guide tab and cap engaging the threads of the guide tab and the external threads of the cap to secure the cap and spinal fixation element to the connector body . An example of this can be seen in .

The second locking mechanism is a set screw having external threads . The second locking mechanism is configured to be inserted into the threaded passage of the cap engaging the threads of the threaded passage of the cap with external threads to secure the spinal fixation element .

In use the connector body may be placed at a surgical site with the protrusion extending outside of the patient. In certain embodiments the guide tab may be used in the placement of the connector body at the surgical site. The bone anchor may then be inserted through the cavity of the connector body into a vertebra not shown at the surgical site. The bone anchor thus serves to connect the connector body to the vertebra. The saddle may then be placed onto the proximal head not shown of the bone anchor in the cavity of the connector body . The saddle includes surface configurations designed to mate with the dovetail features on the guide tab allowing the guide tab to be used as guide that the saddle may be slide along the length of for insertion. In other embodiments the implant including the bone anchor connector body and saddle may be pre assembled before insertion and placement at a surgical side. The saddle may be configured to allow access to the proximal head not shown of the bone anchor after the saddle has been inserted to allow for adjustment to the bone anchor .

Once the implant including the bone anchor connector body and guide tab are in place a spinal fixation element may be placed on the seat . The spinal fixation element may be inserted before or after the implant and then placed on the seat . In certain embodiments the spinal fixation element may be inserted through the same incision used to insert the implant . In many instances the implant as well as the spinal fixation element is inserted using minimally invasive surgical techniques. When using minimally invasive surgical techniques visibility of the surgical site maybe limited. Thus the guide tab extending out of the patient may provide a useful visual indicator for the position of the implant . The guide tab may also serve as a physical guide for the placement of the spinal fixation element on the seat of the implant . As previously discussed the guide tab also defines a stop at one end of the seat . Thus when the spinal fixation device hits the stop defined by the guide tab the user knows the spinal fixation device is properly positioned on the seat .

Once the spinal fixation element has been seated on the implant the cap may be inserted to capture and retain the spinal fixation element on the implant . The guide tab extending outside the patient may serve as a guide for the insertion of the cap . The cap has surface configurations that mate with the dovetail feature of the guide tab which hold the cap in the correct orientation while the cap is slid along the length of the guide tab for insertion. Once at the surgical site the hook of the cap captures and retains the spinal fixation element on the seat of the connector body . The cap may further be locked in place using a surface configuration in the dovetail feature such as locking tooth that provide a snap fit. An example of this can be seen in .

The first locking mechanism is provided to secure the cap and the position of the spinal fixation element and connector body . Once the spinal fixation element has been captured the first locking mechanism may be inserted over the guide tab and cap to engage the threads on the guide tab and the external threads on the cap . When the first locking mechanism is tightened the first locking mechanism pushes against the spinal fixation element . The spinal fixation element pushes against the saddle sitting in the cavity of the connector body which in turn pushes against and engages the proximal head not shown of the bone anchor passing through the cavity of the connector body . Thus by tightening the first locking mechanism the locking cap as well as the positions of the spinal fixation element and the connector body is secured. An example of this can be seen in .

In the example of the implant is further provided with a second locking mechanism in the form of a set screw. The second locking mechanism may be used to further secure the position of the spinal fixation element and the connector body . The second locking mechanism is configured to be inserted through the threaded passage of the cap to engage the spinal fixation element . In certain embodiments the second locking mechanism may be pre loaded in the cap when the cap is inserted. When the second locking mechanism is tightened the second locking mechanism pushes against and engages the spinal fixation element . The spinal fixation element pushes against the saddle sitting in the cavity of the connector body which in turn pushes against and engages the proximal head not shown of the bone anchor passing through the cavity of the connector body . Thus by tightening the second locking mechanism the positions of the spinal fixation element and the connector body are secured.

Once the position of spinal fixation element and connector body have been secured using the first locking mechanism and second locking mechanism the guide tab may then be removed. As discussed previously the guide tab may have a break away feature allowing the guide tab to be detached and removed. In still other embodiments the guide tab may be mechanically attached such as through a clamp latch dovetail or the like wherein the guide tab can be detached by disengaging the mechanical attachment. Alternatively the guide tab can be detached by cutting the guide tab away from the implant . Other possible implementations and embodiments will be apparent to one skilled in the art given the benefit of this disclosure.

Another embodiment of an implant can be seen in . As with the previous embodiments in this embodiment the implant has a bone anchor a connector body and protrusion . In this embodiment the implant further includes a saddle a cap and a locking mechanism .

In this example the protrusion is a guide tab that extends from the connector body in the longitudinal axis opposite and offset of the distal shaft of the bone anchor and defines a stop at one end of the seat . The guide tab is configured to extend outside the patient through the patient s skin while providing clear access to the connector body and the proximal head of the bone anchor . Accordingly the guide tab may form a partial cannula extending through the skin wherein the guide tab has a crescent shaped cross section.

In certain embodiments the guide tab has a break away feature allowing the guide tab to be detached and removed. Alternatively the guide tab can be detached by cutting the post away from the implant . In still other embodiments the protrusion may be mechanically attached such as through a clamp latch dovetail or the like wherein the protrusion can be detached by disengaging the mechanical attachment. Other possible configurations and techniques will be apparent to one skilled in the art given the benefit of this disclosure.

In certain embodiments the guide tab may have one or surface configurations for engaging tools spinal fixation elements and or closure mechanisms to further assist in the insertion and guidance of the tools spinal fixation elements and or closure mechanisms. In the example of the surface configurations include tracks that mate with the cap and guide the insertion of the cap . In this embodiment the guide tab further includes a relief section wherein the cap may be disengaged from the tracks of the guide tab to mate cap with the connector body which will be discussed in more detail below.

In the example of a saddle is provided as part of the implant . The saddle is sized and configured to fit inside the cavity in the connector body and define the seat .

In the examples of a closure mechanism in the form of a cap is also provided. The cap is configured to capture a spinal fixation element on the saddle defining the seat of the connector body . The cap includes a hook a threaded passage a sliding lock feature and surface configuration for engaging the tracks of the guide tab .

The hook is configured to capture and hold the spinal fixation element on the seat of the connector body thereby connecting the spinal fixation element to the implant . The threaded passage is configured to receive the locking mechanism . The sliding lock feature is configured to slidably engage matching features on the connector body . This is discussed in more detail in regard to F. The surface configurations are for mating with the tracks of the guide tab .

The locking mechanism is a set screw. The set screw is configured to be inserted into the threaded passage of the cap engaging the threads of the threaded passage of the cap to secure the spinal fixation element .

In use the implant may be placed at a surgical site with the protrusion extending outside of the patient. In certain embodiments the guide tab may be used in the placement of the implant at the surgical site. In this example the implant including the bone anchor connector body and saddle are pre assembled before insertion and placement at a surgical side. As such the saddle is configured to allow access to the proximal head of the bone anchor after the saddle has been inserted to allow for adjustment to the bone anchor .

Once the implant including the bone anchor connector body and guide tab are in place a spinal fixation element may be placed on the seat . The spinal fixation element may be inserted before or after the implant and then placed on the seat . In certain embodiments the spinal fixation element may be inserted through the same incision used to insert the implant . In many instances the implant as well as the spinal fixation element is inserted using minimally invasive surgical techniques. When using minimally invasive surgical techniques visibility of the surgical site maybe limited. Thus the guide tab extending out of the patient may provide a useful visual indicator for the position of the implant . The guide tab may also serve as a physical guide for the placement of the spinal fixation element on the seat of the implant . As previously discussed the guide tab also defines a stop at one end of the seat . Thus when the spinal fixation device hits the stop defined by the guide tab the user knows the spinal fixation device is properly positioned on the seat .

Once the spinal fixation element has been seated on the implant the cap may be inserted to capture and retain the spinal fixation element on the implant . The guide tab extending outside the patient may serve as a guide for the insertion of the cap . The cap has surface configurations that mate with the tracks of the guide tab which hold the cap in the correct orientation while the cap is slid along the length of the guide tab for insertion. Once at the surgical site the hook of the cap captures and retains the spinal fixation element on the seat of the connector body . An example of this can be seen in .

As can be seen in the cap is mated with one of the tracks of the guide tab as it slide along the length of the guide tab to the surgical site to capture the spinal fixation element . This means that the cap is laterally offset from the connector body when cap reaches the implant site. However in this example the cap is provided with a sliding lock feature to slidably mate with the connector body to secure the spinal fixation element . As previously mentioned the guide tab is provided with a relief section proximal to connector body which allows the cap to disengage the tracks of the guide tab . Thus when the cap has captured the spinal fixation element at the implant site the cap may be slid laterally to engage the connector body shown in .

In the cap has been moved laterally in the direction indicated by arrow . When the cap is moved laterally in such a fashion the sliding lock features engage the matching the matching features on the connector body . Furthermore the surface configuration that allow the cap to slide along the tracks of the guide tab are engaged by the ends of the tracks in the relief section . Thus by sliding the cap laterally in the direction indicated by arrow the cap is slidably mated with the connector body thereby locking the cap in place and capturing the spinal fixation element . In other embodiments manipulation of the spinal fixation element may cause the engagement of the matching locking features and .

In the example of the implant is further provided with a locking mechanism in the form of a set screw. The set screw may be used to secure the position of the spinal fixation element and the connector body . The set screw is configured to be inserted through the threaded passage of the cap to engage the spinal fixation element . In certain embodiments the set screw may be pre loaded in the cap when the cap is inserted. When the set screw is tightened the set screw pushes against and engages the spinal fixation element . The spinal fixation element pushes against the saddle sitting in the cavity of the connector body which in turn pushes against and engages the proximal head of the bone anchor passing through the cavity of the connector body . Thus by tightening the set screw the positions of the spinal fixation element and the connector body are secured.

Once the positions of spinal fixation element and connector body have been secured using the set screw the guide tab may then be removed. As discussed previously the guide tab may have a break away feature allowing the guide tab to be detached and removed. Alternatively the guide tab can be detached by cutting the guide tab away from the implant . In still other embodiments the protrusion may be mechanically attached such as through a clamp latch dovetail or the like wherein the protrusion can be detached by disengaging the mechanical attachment. Other possible implementations and embodiments will be apparent to one skilled in the art given the benefit of this disclosure.

Another embodiment of an implant can be seen in . As with the previous embodiments in this embodiment the implant has a bone anchor a connector body and protrusion . As with the bone anchor and connector body are already assembled. In this embodiment the implant further includes a saddle a cap and a locking mechanism .

In this example the protrusion is a guide tab that extends from the connector body in the longitudinal axis opposite and offset of the distal shaft of the bone anchor . The guide tab further defines a stop at one end of the seat . The guide tab is configured to extend outside the patient through the patient s skin while providing clear access to the connector body and the proximal head of the bone anchor . Accordingly the guide tab may form a partial cannula extending through the skin wherein the guide tab has a crescent shaped cross section.

The guide tab may have one or surface configurations for engaging tools spinal fixation elements and or closure mechanisms to further assist in the insertion and guidance of the tools spinal fixation elements and or closure mechanisms. In the example of the surface configurations include tracks that mate with the cap and guide the insertion of the cap .

The saddle is provided as part of the implant . The saddle is sized and configured to fit inside the cavity in the connector body and define the seat . In the examples of the saddle has already been inserted in the connector body to define the seat .

In the examples of a closure mechanism in the form of a cap is also provided. The cap is configured to capture a spinal fixation element on the saddle defining the seat of the connector body . The cap includes a hook a threaded passage a twist lock feature and surface configuration for engaging the tracks of the guide tab .

The hook is configured to capture and hold the spinal fixation element on the seat of the connector body thereby connecting the spinal fixation element to the implant . The threaded passage is configured to receive the locking mechanism . The twist lock feature is configured to engage matching features on the connector body . The surface configurations are for mating with the tracks of the guide tab .

The locking mechanism is a set screw. The set screw is configured to be inserted into the threaded passage of the cap engaging the threads of the threaded passage of the cap to secure the spinal fixation element .

In use the implant may be placed at a surgical site with the protrusion extending outside of the patient. In certain embodiments the guide tab may be used in the placement of the implant at the surgical site. In this example the implant including the bone anchor connector body and saddle are pre assembled before insertion and placement at a surgical side. As such the saddle is configured to allow access to the proximal head of the bone anchor after the saddle has been inserted to allow for adjustment to the bone anchor .

Once the implant including the bone anchor connector body and guide tab are in place a spinal fixation element may be placed on the seat . The spinal fixation element may be inserted before or after the implant and then placed on the seat . In certain embodiments the spinal fixation element may be inserted through the same incision used to insert the implant . In many instances the implant as well as the spinal fixation element is inserted using minimally invasive surgical techniques. When using minimally invasive surgical techniques visibility of the surgical site maybe limited. Thus the guide tab extending out of the patient may provide a useful visual indicator for the position of the implant . The guide tab may also serve as a physical guide for the placement of the spinal fixation element on the seat of the implant . As previously discussed the guide tab also defines a stop at one end of the seat . Thus when the spinal fixation device hits the stop defined by the guide tab the user knows the spinal fixation device is properly positioned on the seat . An example of this can be seen in .

Once the spinal fixation element has been seated on the implant the cap may be inserted to capture and retain the spinal fixation element on the implant . The guide tab extending outside the patient may serve as a guide for the insertion of the cap . The cap has surface configurations that mate with the tracks of the guide tab which hold the cap in the correct orientation while the cap is slid along the length of the guide tab for insertion. Once at the surgical site the hook of the cap captures and retains the spinal fixation element on the seat of the connector body . An example of this can be seen in .

As previously mentioned the cap is provided with a twist lock feature . Once the cap has captured the spinal fixation element and mated with the connector body the cap may be further locked in position by rotating the cap around a longitudinal axis as shown in . When the cap is rotated as indicated by arrow the twist lock feature on the cap engage the matching features on the connector body to interconnect the cap and connector body . Relief allows mating feature to rotate out of alignment features .

In the example of the implant is further provided with a locking mechanism in the form of a set screw. The set screw may be used to secure the position of the spinal fixation element and the connector body . The set screw is configured to be inserted through the threaded passage of the cap to engage the spinal fixation element . In certain embodiments the set screw may be pre loaded in the cap when the cap is inserted. When the set screw is tightened the set screw pushes against and engages the spinal fixation element . The spinal fixation element pushes against the saddle sitting in the connector body which in turn pushes against and engages the proximal head not shown of the bone anchor passing through the connector body . Thus by tightening the set screw the positions of the spinal fixation element and the connector body are secured.

In certain other embodiment the locking mechanism may also be used as part of a reduction technique. An example of this can be seen in .

In a cap with an elongated hook is provided in conjunction with an elongated set screw . The rest of the implant including the bone anchor connector body and protrusion may be of the types described in the previous embodiments such as described in regard to . In this example the spinal fixation element will not properly sit on the seat of the connector body . Hence the cap with the elongated hook is used to capture the spinal fixation element . The cap may engage and lock with the connector body using any of the above techniques including the sliding lock feature of or the twist lock feature of .

Once the spinal fixation element has been captured the elongated set screw may be used to push the spinal fixation element onto the seat of the connector body as seen in .

Once the positions of spinal fixation element or and connector body or have been secured using the set screw or the guide tab or may then be removed. The guide tab or may have a break away feature allowing the guide tab or to be detached and removed. Alternatively the guide tab or can be detached by cutting the guide tab or away from the implant or . In still other embodiments the protrusion or may be mechanically attached such as through a clamp latch dovetail or the like wherein the protrusion can be detached by disengaging the mechanical attachment. Other possible implementations and embodiments will be apparent to one skilled in the art given the benefit of this disclosure.

A person having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the aforementioned devices for securing a spinal fixation element can be modified depending on the type of spinal fixation element or implant being used as well as the specific procedure being employed. Moreover other methods and devices known in the art can be used in accordance with the present invention.

One skilled in the art will appreciate further features and advantages of the invention based on the above described embodiments. Accordingly the invention is not to be limited by what has been particularly shown and described except as indicated by the appended claims. All publications and references cited herein are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

While the instruments and methods of the present invention have been particularly shown and described with reference to the exemplary embodiments thereof those of ordinary skill in the art will understand that various changes may be made in the form and details herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain many equivalents to the exemplary embodiments described specifically herein by using no more than routine experimentation. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the scope of the present invention and the appended claims.

