---

title: Olivo-cerebellar controller
abstract: Non-linear control laws are disclosed and implemented with a controller and control system for maneuvering an underwater vehicle. The control laws change the phase of one Inferior-Olive (IO) neuron with respect to another IO. One control law is global, that is, the control law works (stable and convergent) for any initial condition. The remaining three control laws are local. The control laws are obtained by applying feedback linearization, while retaining non-linear characteristics. Each control law generates a profile (time history) of the control signal to produce a desired phase difference recognizable by a controller to respond to disturbances and to maneuver an underwater vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08065046&OS=08065046&RS=08065046
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08065046
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080129
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 994 093 filed on Sep. 17 2007 and which is entitled Olivo Cerebellar Controller by the inventors Sahjendra Singh and Promode R. Bandyopadhyay.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 901 546 filed on Sep. 14 2007 and which is entitled Auto catalytic Oscillators for Locomotion of Underwater Vehicles by the inventors Promode R. Bandopadhyay Alberto Menozzi Daniel P. Thivierge David Beal and Anuradha Annnaswamy.

The present invention relates to a controller and control system for an underwater vehicle specifically a controller and control system which utilize non linear dynamics supported by underlying mathematics to control the propulsors of an underwater vehicle.

Future underwater platforms are expected to have numerous sensors and performance capabilities that will mimic the capabilities of aquatic animals. A key component of such platforms would be their controller. Because such platforms and an existing U.S. Navy Biorobotic Autonomous Undersea Vehicle BAUV is an example keep station in highly disturbed fields near submarines or in the littoral areas it is essential for the platforms vehicles to have quick responding controllers for their propulsor systems.

Hydrodynamic models based on conventional engineering controllers have not been able to produce the desired levels of control. Thus a biology inspired controller is a realistic alternative. Because the brains of animals perform complex tasks which rely on nonlinear dynamics the underlying mathematics provide a foundation for the controller and control system of the present disclosure.

Traditional control systems are designed using linear models obtained by Jacobian linearization. This linearization allows design using frequency domain techniques such as lag lead compensation PID feedback etc. and a state space approach linear optimal control pole assignment servo regulation adaptive control etc. . However any controller designed using linearized models of the system will fail to stabilize unless the perturbations are small.

One must use nonlinear design techniques if the control system is to operate in a larger region. For underwater vehicles linear and nonlinear control systems based on pole placement feedback linearization sliding mode control and adaptive control etc. have been designed. However in these designs it is assumed that the vehicle is equipped with traditional control surfaces. As such these vehicles have limited maneuvering capability.

For large and agile maneuvers traditional control surfaces are inadequate and new control surfaces must be developed. Observations of marine animals provide the potential of fish like oscillating fins for the propulsion and maneuvering of autonomous underwater vehicles AUVs . AUVs exist with multiple oscillating fins which impart high lift and thrust. The oscillatory motion of the fins or propulsors is obtained by inferior olives which provide robust command signals to controllers and servomotors of the fins.

Inferior olives have complex nonlinear dynamics and have robust and unique self oscillation Limit Cycle Oscillation LCO characteristics. Efforts have been made to model the inferior olives IO . Limited results on phase control of IOs in an open loop sense are available using a pulse type stimulus. However the required pulse height of the input signal which depends on the state of the IOs at the switching instant as well as the target relative phase between the IOs has not been derived. For the application of the IOs to the AUV closed loop control systems must be developed for the synchronization and phase control of the IOs.

It is therefore a general purpose and primary object of the present invention to provide control laws for the synchronization and phase angle control of multiple inferior olives IO used in a maneuvering controller or control system of an underwater vehicle 

It is a further object of the present invention to provide non linear control laws that the controller or control system can use to change a phase of one IO with respect to another IO and

It is a still further object of the present invention to provide a global control law for a controller to use in maneuvering an underwater vehicle and

It is a still further object of the present invention to provide a local control law for a controller to use in maneuvering an underwater vehicle.

In order to attain the objects described the present invention provides closed loop control of multiple inferior olives IOs for maneuvering a Biorobotic Autonomous Undersea Vehicle BAUV . A model of an ith IO is described where variables are associated with sub threshold oscillations and low threshold spiking. Higher threshold spiking is also described.

For the sake of simplicity the synchronization of only two IOs is considered but it is seen that the approach is extendable for the synchronization of any number of IOs.

In optimizing the controller or control system for maneuvering the state vector for the ith IO is defined and a nonlinear vector function and constant column vector are obtained. Synchronization is defined by first considering the synchronization of two IOs having arbitrary and possibly large initial conditions. Note that if a delay time is zero the IOs oscillate in synchronism with a relative phase zero. However if one sets the delay time the IOwill oscillate lagging behind the IOwith a relative phase angle. Although the convergence of the synchronization error has been required to be only asymptotic for practical purposes it will be sufficient if one can design a control system for the IOwhich is sufficiently fast.

In the disclosure four control systems are presented for the synchronization of two IOs based on an input output feedback linearization nonlinear inversion approach. For the purpose of the design of the controller or control system output variables associated with the nonlinear system. It is shown that the choice of the output variable is important in shaping the behavior of the closed loop system although by following the approach presented various input output linearizing control systems can be obtained.

The derivation of a control law is considered for the global synchronization of the IOwith the reference IO. It is desired to design a synchronizing control system such that IOoscillates in synchronism with a delay time corresponding to a desired phase angle with respect to the reference IO. In global synchronization the synchronization is accomplished for all values of initial conditions of the two IOs. The output function is a function of the state vectors of IOand IO. This choice of the output yields the global result.

For the nonlinear closed loop system the output satisfies a fourth order linear differential equation. One can choose larger gains to obtain faster convergence to zero. For the chosen output because the system is of dimension four and the relative degree is four the dimension of the zero dynamics is null. The zero dynamics represent the residual dynamics of the system when the output error is constrained to be zero.

The frequency of oscillation of the IOs depends on the system parameters. Signals of different frequencies can be obtained by time scaling. In the disclosure it is observed that the IOs are not initially in phase. As the controller switches the IOs synchronize. However as the command changes it causes larger deviations in the tracking of trajectories due to a large control input.

The controller or the control system uses feedback of nonlinear functions of state variables and has a global synchronization property. The complexity and performance of the controller depends on the choice of the output function.

The IOs will synchronize if the equilibrium point is asymptotically stable globally asymptotically stable . For asymptotic analysis ignoring a decaying part which represents the deviation of a trajectory from a periodic signal can be represented by a Fourier series. Moreover the amplitude of the harmonic converges to zero and for stability analysis a finite number of harmonics will suffice.

A simple control law has linear feedback terms involving only tilde over z and tilde over w variables and are independent of uand vvariables. The output tilde over w satisfies a first order equation and in the closed loop system tilde over w tends to zero. However the stability in the closed loop system will depend on the stability property of the zero dynamics. Apparently if the origin tilde over v tilde over z 0 of the zero dynamics is asymptotically stable then tilde over x converges to zero as tilde over w tends to zero.

The relative merits of the four controllers are such that the first controller has a global stabilization property and the remaining controllers have established local synchronization. It is expected that as the complexity of control law increases the region of stability enlarges. For this reason one expects that the control law can accomplish synchronization for relatively small perturbations at the instant when the phase command is given. Of course the error and therefore the synchronization of the IOs depends on the instant of controller switching. Based on simulation results it has been found that two control laws for the controllers have fairly large regions of stability and one control law does not necessarily have to use another control law.

Unlike the global control laws for the controller the local control laws provide smoother responses. This is due to a fast varying nonlinear function of large magnitude in the control law. There exists flexibility in the design and by a proper choice of feedback gains and the reference phase command signals one can obtain different response characteristics. This flexibility in phase control of IOs is useful in performing desirable maneuvers for the BAUV.

One must note that the profile of the control signal will depend on the states of the IOs when a pulse is applied. The derived controllers are based on the input output feedback linearization theory as well as stability and convergence. The control system can be switched on for phase control at any instant since the system utilizes state variable feedback and one can command the IO to follow a sequence of phase change when needed.

Referring now to the present disclosure a subsection on inferior olives and a practical application of control laws affecting inferior olives are presented.

This disclosure focuses on closed loop control of multiple inferior olives IOs for maneuvering Biorobotic Autonomous Undersea Vehicles BAUVs . The model of an ith IO is described by

Define 3 where x is the state vector of the ith IO R is the set of real numbers. Equation 1 can be written in a compact form as 4 where u Iis the control input of the ith IO and f g are vectors. The nonlinear vector function f x Rand the constant column vector gare obtained from Equation 1 . It is known to those skilled in the art that a system utilizing Equation 1 exhibits limit cycle oscillations. Using harmonic balancing it is possible to predict the approximate magnitudes frequency and phases of periodic solutions of the components of the system.

As stated the primary objective is to develop control laws for the synchronization and phase angle control of multiple IOs for t he purpose of BAUV control. For the sake of simplicity the synchronization of only two IOs is considered but it is seen that the approach is extendable for the synchronization of any number of IOs. Synchronization is defined first.

Consider a solution x t of the IObeginning from an initial condition x with an input u 0 set to zero and let x t t t being time be the delayed signal obtained from x t where t 0 is an arbitrary delay time. Then for the prescribed delay time t IOis said to be asymptotically synchronized to the IOif the error signal tilde over x t x t x t t converges to zero as t tends to infinity .

Consider the synchronization of the two IOs having arbitrary and possibly large initial conditions. Note that if the delay time is zero x t x t diminishes to zero as time progresses and the IOs oscillate in synchronism with a relative phase zero. However if one sets the delay time as t 2 f f is the period of oscillation of the IO the IOwill oscillate lagging behind the IOwith a relative phase angle . Although the convergence of the synchronization error has been required to be only asymptotic for practical purposes it will be sufficient if one can design the control system for the IOwhich is sufficiently fast.

Four control systems are presented for the synchronization of the two IOs based on an input output feedback linearization nonlinear inversion approach. For the purpose of the design consider output variables associated with the nonlinear system for Equation 5 of the form . 6 

Later h which is a function of the state variables of the two IOs is selected to meet the desired objective. It will be seen that the choice of the output variable e is important in shaping the behavior of the closed loop system. Although by following the approach presented here various input output linearizing control systems can be obtained derivation of the four control systems of varying complexity and synchronizing characteristics are considered.

Now consider the derivation of a control law for the global synchronization of the IOwith the reference IO. The reference IOhas an input I 0. It is desired to design a synchronizing control system such that IOoscillates in synchronism with a delay time of tseconds corresponding to a desired phase angle with respect to reference IO. By global synchronization the synchronization must be accomplished for all values of initial conditions x R i 1 2 of the two IOs.

Note that the output function e is a function of only the first component of the state vectors of IOand IOat time t and t t respectively. But it will be seen later that this choice of the output e yields the global result. The subscript u of the function h denotes dependence on the variables u .

For compactness define the composite state vector for the two IOs as x t x t x t t R where T denotes matrix transposition. Then from Equation 5 one has

For the nonlinear closed loop system of Equations 9 and 16 the output e t satisfies a fourth order linear differential equation. The gains pare chosen such that Equation 17 is exponentially stable and thereby e t and derivatives of e t converge to zero as t tends to infinity. Of course one can choose larger gains to obtain faster convergence of e t to zero. For the chosen output because the system of Equation 9 is of dimension four and the relative degree of e is four the dimension of the zero dynamics is null. The zero dynamics represent the residual dynamics of the system when the output error e t is constrained to be zero.

In fact there exists a diffeomorphism Pfor t 0 mapping Rinto Rsuch that tilde over x P t where e e R. One can find the map P. First of all one has e where tilde over x x t x t t tilde over v tilde over z tilde over w is defined. Using Equation 12 one can show that

To examine the synchronizing capability of the control system the closed loop system including the IOs given in Equation 5 and the control law of Equation 16 is simulated. The parameters of the IOs selected are E 0.001 E 0.02 k 0.1 I 0.018 I 0.61 and a 0.015. One can use another set of parameters as well. The input to IOis kept to zero. The feedback gains chosen are such that the poles of Equation 17 are at 25 0.424 j 1.263 and 25 6.26 j 0.4141 . These poles have been selected to obtain good transient responses by observing the simulated responses however one could choose other pole locations as well for synchronization. The initial conditions are x 0.4 0.6 0.4 0.5 and x 0.2 0.4 0.2 0.3 . Thus the initial condition of the IOs differs. The frequency of oscillation of the IOs depends on the system parameters. Signals of different frequencies can be obtained by time scaling. For illustration a time scaling is introduced by multiplying the derivatives of the variables by a scaling factor of sixty.

It is desired to have the delay time tas 0.125 for t 0 4 0.25 for t 4 6 0.5 for t 6 8 and 0.75 for t 8 10 respectively. The controller is switched on at t 2 sec that is I 0 for t

The controller Cuses feedback of nonlinear functions of the state variables and has a global synchronization property. A controller using fewer state components and or nonlinear feedback functions will be notable for implementation. The complexity and performance of the controller depends on the choice of the output function e. The existence of simpler controllers using different controlled output variables is examined in the next subsections.

Now consider the derivation of a control law termed as C for the choice of controlled output variable v v . 19 Note that the same symbol e is used to indicate a different function. For this choice of e that for j 0 1 2 one has

The gains pare chosen such that the characteristic polynomial . 24 associated with Equation 23 is Hurwitz commonly known in the art. Hurwitz means that the roots of 0 have real part negative. For the choice of such parameters e and the derivatives tend to zero.

For the nonlinear closed loop system of Equation 9 and Equation 22 the output e t satisfies a third order linear differential equation. Because the system of Equation 9 is of dimension four and the relative degree or e is three the dimension of the zero dynamics is one. In fact there exists a diffeomorphism Pfor t 0 mapping Rinto Rsuch that tilde over x P t where is now defined as e . Using Equation 20 one can show that

The IOs will synchronize in a local global sense only if the equilibrium point 0 is asymptotically stable globally asymptotically stable . The system of Equation 27 is a nonlinear nonautonomous system and depends on the state u t t of the reference IO. It is seen that the solution of Equation 27 is bounded because for large gis dominated by .

For the stability analysis consider the solutions of the zero dynamics in a sufficiently small open set around 0. If u t t is sufficiently small one has g 0 t 

Alternatively one can establish asymptotic stability of the zero dynamics using a center manifold theorem known to those ordinarily skilled in the art. First note that the solution x t t of the reference IO converges to a closed orbit . For asymptotic analysis ignoring the decaying part which represents the deviation of the trajectory from the periodic signal u t t can be represented by a Fourier series. Moreover the amplitude of the kth harmonic converges to zero as k tends to infinity and for stability analysis a finite number N a sufficiently large integer of harmonics will suffice. Let be the fundamental frequency of oscillation of the reference IO. As such in the steady state it can be assumed that u t t can be generated by an exosystem dot over x x 28 and u t t Cxfor row vector C where the block diagonal matrix is

In view of the form of the function g u t t Equation 30 has a trivial solution 0 and moreover for small initial conditions 0 the solution of Equation 27 satisfies 0 31 where and are positive numbers. Since 0 according to Equation 31 it follows that for small u t t converges exponentially to zero and this establishes local synchronization of the IOs because Pis diffeomorphic. However only local synchronization of the IOs is established using the control law of Equation 22 .

The closed loop system including the control law of Equation 22 is simulated. The initial conditions phase command signals and the model parameters of FIG. A D are retained. The feedback parameters pnow correspond to the poles 3.5405 and 5 0.521 j1.0681 of the polynomial . Simulated responses are shown in FIG. A D and FIG. A D . Observe that the IOs synchronize following each phase command. The control magnitude is smaller see FIG. A D since the gains chosen are relatively small in this case. Although it is not easy to establish global stability it has been found by simulation that synchronization is accomplished for larger values of the initial conditions and different phase command sequences.

Consider the derivation of a control law based on 32 as the controlled output. For this choice of e it is easily verified that for j 0 1 one has

The gains pare chosen such that the characteristic polynomial 37 associated with Equation 36 is Hurwitz.

It follows that if the origin tilde over v 0 of the zero dynamics is asymptotically stable and e 0 then tends to zero which implies the convergence of tilde over x to zero.

Similar to the arguments based on either the Jacobian linearization or the center manifold theorem it can be concluded that for small u t t the origin of the zero dynamics is exponentially stable in a local sense and thereby local synchronization is accomplished. Note that this control law is simpler that C.

Simulation results are now presented for the closed loop system of Equations 5 and 35 . The parameter values command input sequence and the initial conditions of FIG. A D are retained. The feedback gains are chosen are so that the poles of the e dynamics are at 7.07 j7.072 . Simulated responses are shown in FIG. A D and FIG. A D . Synchronization is accomplished and the z and w responses are smoother and control input is smaller than those obtained using the control laws Cand C. However sharper peaking of u and w response is observable at certain instances when the phase command changes. However the stability results have been established only for the local synchronization.

For this choice one has 44 and the control law is 45 where pis any positive number. Thus the control law has simple linear feedback terms involving only the tilde over z and tilde over w variables and are independent of uand v.

The output tilde over w now satisfies a first order equation 0 46 and in the closed loop system tilde over w tends to zero. However the stability in the closed loop system will depend on the stability property of the zero dynamics which is now of dimension three.

The zero dynamics in this case are obtained by setting tilde over w 0 and can be shown to be described by

Apparently if the origin tilde over v tilde over z 0 of the zero dynamics is asymptotically stable then tilde over x converges to zero as tilde over w tends to zero.

In Equation 47 the matrix Ais Hurwitz and the periodic signals u t t and z t t are functions of the state xof the exosystem. In this case in view of the functions gand gin Equation 47 one finds that the center manifold is tilde over v tilde over z tilde over V tilde over Z 0. Similar to the arguments used on either the Jacobian linearization or the center manifold theorem it can be concluded that for small u t t z t t the origin of the zero dynamics is exponentially stable in a local sense and thereby local synchronization is accomplished.

Simulation results are now presented for the closed loop system of Equation 5 and Equation 45 . The parameter values command input sequence and the initial conditions of FIG. A D are retained. The feedback gain chosen is p 8. The responses are shown in FIG. A D and FIG. A D . It is observed that synchronization has been accomplished following each change in the phase command signal but convergence time is larger. The plots of ushow high frequency oscillation at certain instances but it has not caused any problems. Only a small control magnitude has been used.

Simulation results are obtained for a different value of the parameter a 0.01 and the time scaling factor is set to 100 giving the frequency of oscillation close to one Hz. The closed loop control system using each of the control laws C Cand Cand Cis simulated. The command input the feedback gains and initial conditions of FIG. A D are retained for simulation. Results are presented only for the closed loop system including the simplest control law C. The responses are shown in FIG. A D through FIG. A D .

It is of interest to discuss the relative merits of the four controllers. As indicated earlier the first controller has a global stabilization property and for the remaining controllers only local synchronization has been established. It is important to note that only a finite region of stability in the tilde over x space exists because the local stability of the closed loop system including the controllers C C and Chas been proven. But it is expected that as the complexity of control law increases the region of stability enlarges. For this reason one expects that the control law Chas been proven. But it is expected that as the complexity of control law increases the region of stability enlarges. For this reason one expects that the control law Ccan accomplish synchronization only for relatively small perturbations in tilde over x at the instant when the phase command is given. Of course the error tilde over x and therefore the synchronization of the IOs depends on the instant of controller switching. Based on the simulation results it has been found that the controllers Cand Chave fairly large regions of stability and one does not necessarily have to use the controller C which has the highest degree of complexity among the derived controllers. Unlike the global controller the controllers C C and Cprovide smoother z w responses. This is due to the fast varying nonlinear function of large magnitude in the control law C. It may be pointed out that there exists flexibility in the design and by a proper choice of feedback gains and the reference phase command signals one can obtain different response characteristics. This flexibility in phase control of IOs is useful in performing desirable maneuvers of the BAUV.

In the derivation of the control laws it is assumed that the IOs are identical. While for the BAUV application it is appropriate to have similar parameters it is pointed out that the design approach is quite general and it is applicable to nonidentical IOs having different parameters. The design has been presented only for two IOs but it is straightforward to extend the derivation for the synchronization of any number of IOs.

The IOs have complex nonlinear dynamics. As such controllers PID optimal lead lag compensation etc. designed using linearized models cannot guarantee global synchronization. One must note that the profile of the control signal will depend on the states of the IOs when the pulse is applied. The derived controllers are based on the input output feedback linearization theory and stability and convergence. The designed global controller accomplishes synchronization for all initial conditions. Moreover design parameters provide flexibility in shaping response characteristics. The controller can be switched on for phase control at any instant since the controller utilizes state variable feedback and one can command the IO to follow a sequence of phase changed when needed for the control of the BAUV. This is especially important if operating fins of the BAUV operate at low frequencies. The control laws are explicit functions of the state variables of the IOs and can be easily implemented.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

