---

title: Method and apparatus for synchronization of RF module activities
abstract: An apparatus and method for synchronizing RF activities comprising receiving a notification relating to transmission activities; determining at least one of a plurality of RF modules to relay the notification; and relaying the notification to at least one of the plurality of RF modules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08218568&OS=08218568&RS=08218568
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08218568
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080711
---
This disclosure relates generally to apparatus and methods for synchronization of radio frequency RF module activities. More particularly the disclosure relates to synchronization of RF module transmissions and receptions.

Modern cellular and wireless devices may contain many receivers and transmitters using various wireless technologies each with their own RF module. These wireless technologies include code division multiple access CDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS wireless local area networks WLAN BlueTooth worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Broadcast TV global positioning system GPS etc. Each such receiver may have deteriorated performance due to interference arising from concurrent transmission from the RF module of another technology. Without synchronization of RF activities the RF modules each operate independently increasing the probability of interfering with each other. In addition if two RF modules transmit simultaneously they may interfere with or jam each other at the receivers. Furthermore if the transmitters transmit simultaneously the peak aggregated energy demand may impose a high load on the battery and electrical power system. Alternatively the electrical power level may drop and cause a transmission failure.

Previously some solutions have been offered which are compatible with two closely related wireless technologies. But the previous solutions are limited to two closely related wireless technologies and do not offer a complete solution for all wireless technologies. One previous solution creates linkages between technologies but is not scalable and not maintainable. Other previous solutions require jammer detectors or consume more power to overcome internal jammers.

Disclosed is an apparatus and method for synchronization of radio frequency RF module activities particularly for RF transmissions and receptions.

According to one aspect a method for synchronizing RF activities comprising receiving a notification relating to transmission activities determining at least one of a plurality of RF modules to relay the notification and relaying the notification to at least one of the plurality of RF modules.

According to another aspect a mobile terminal with features for synchronizing RF activities comprising a plurality of RF modules and a RF activity bulletin board wherein the RF activity bulletin board receives a notification relating to transmission activities determines at least one of the plurality of RF modules to relay the notification and relays the notification to at least one of the plurality of RF modules.

According to another aspect a mobile terminal with features for synchronizing RF activities comprising a processor and a memory wherein the memory containing program code executable by the processor for performing the following receiving a notification relating to transmission activities determining at least one of a plurality of RF modules to relay the notification and relaying the notification to at least one of the plurality of RF modules.

According to another aspect a mobile terminal with features for synchronizing RF activities comprising means for receiving a notification relating to transmission activities means for determining at least one of a plurality of RF modules to relay the notification and means for relaying the notification to at least one of the plurality of RF modules.

According to another aspect a computer readable medium including program code thereon which when executed by at least one computer implement a method comprising program code for receiving a notification relating to transmission activities program code for determining at least one of a plurality of RF modules to relay the notification and program code for relaying the notification to at least one of the plurality of RF modules.

The present disclosure overcomes or minimizes internal RF module compatibility issues. Advantages include increased concurrency performance across all technologies not just among pair of technologies simpler and more scalable architecture lower maintenance in porting between targets no dependency between technologies no need for jammer compensation allowing for simpler and more cost effective designs better power consumption by allowing the receiver to be less linear more integrated solution reduced battery demand for peak energies postponement of transmission for improved concurrency with other RF modules etc. In short the present disclosure provides a holistic compatibility solution for all RF technologies.

It is understood that other aspects will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein it is shown and described various aspects by way of illustration. The drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of various aspects of the present disclosure and is not intended to represent the only aspects in which the present disclosure may be practiced. Each aspect described in this disclosure is provided merely as an example or illustration of the present disclosure and should not necessarily be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the present disclosure. Acronyms and other descriptive terminology may be used merely for convenience and clarity and are not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure.

While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the processes or methodologies are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that they are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance with one or more aspects occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a process or methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a process or methodology in accordance with one or more aspects.

As shown in each RF module may include a receiver RX and or a transmitter TX . The RF activity bulletin board serves as a mediator among all RF modules within the mobile terminal . In one example the RF activity bulletin board sends notifications from one of the RF modules to one or more of the other RF modules within the mobile terminal . For example a notification from one of the transmitters is sent to one or more of the receivers and or one or more of the other transmitters which are registered for such information. Serving as a mediator the RF activity bulletin board decouples dependencies among the RF modules since the RF modules no longer need to directly communicate with each other. In particular the hardware registers of the different RF modules are decoupled by having the RF activity bulletin board. In another aspect the software e.g. software functions calls of the different RF modules are decoupled by having the RF activity bulletin board. With no direct inter technology interaction and implementation of RF activity synchronization interference is minimized. In one aspect the RF activity bulletin board is a singleton with two application programming interface API functions to send notification on upcoming transmission and to allow RF modules to define their criteria for receiving notifications.

When the notification is received by the receivers the notification can be used to reduce sensitivity to interference while preserving capacity to receive other information. Without such notification the receivers could for example lose its ability to receive data due to the interference. The RF activity bulletin board allows each of the RF modules within the mobile terminal to post notifications of its RF activities. Each of the RF modules subscribe to the RF activity bulletin board for receiving notifications. Additionally each RF module can subscribe to be notified of particular types of RF activities. As part of the subscription each RF module can provide a filter such that only notifications that pass the criteria of the filter will be relayed to the RF module. By providing the filter power consumption of the RF activity bulletin board is reduced since notification is limited to only the relevant RF modules. In one aspect the RF activity bulletin board is implemented by a processor of the mobile terminal . In the alternative the RF activity bulletin board is implemented by its own dedicated processor. By providing the filter the power consumption of the processor is reduced. The criteria of the filter include one or more of the following parameters type of technology transmission start time transmission end time duration of the transmission transmission power level transmission frequency band etc. One skilled in the art would understand that the parameters listed here serve only as examples and that other parameters may be included without affecting the scope and spirit of the present disclosure.

For example a transmitter within a RF module can notify the RF activity bulletin board when it is going to transmit its technology e.g. CDMA its transmit power and or frequency band. Upon receiving the notification from the transmitter the RF activity bulletin board checks which receivers and or transmitters have subscribed for that particular type of notification. In one aspect each of the receivers transmitters provides a filter to the RF activity bulletin board . The filter includes criteria for notifications. If the particular notification passes the criteria of the filter then the corresponding receiver transmitter to that filter desires to receive that notification. The RF activity bulletin board then sends the notification to the receivers and or transmitters which pass the filter criteria. For example a receiver receives only in one frequency band. The filter criterion of this receiver is set to the one frequency band. Thus notification that a transmitter will be transmitting in a different frequency band will not pass the criteria of the receiver s filter. Thus in this case the RF activity bulletin board will not send the notification to this particular receiver.

Once the notification is received by the receivers and or transmitters appropriate actions can be taken. For example a receiver may change its low noise amplifier LNA gain increase its linear range activate a notch filter and or reschedule its reception time activity etc. The decision for the appropriate actions resides within the recipient of the notification.

The RF activity bulletin board may be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. In one aspect the RF activity bulletin board includes one or more of the following characteristics mentioned herein. The RF activity bulletin board runs on a common software firmware or hardware that is readily compatible with all technologies. The RF activity bulletin runs on a common software firmware or hardware that is readily accessible by all technologies. In one aspect the common software firmware or hardware is temporarily accessible by a third party module during a temporary connection. The software firmware or hardware of the RF activity bulletin board has the ability to gain access to all technologies so that it can receive and send notifications to all. The software firmware or hardware of the RF activity bulletin board is fast and simple and runs at high priority to allow receiving and sending notifications without delay. In one aspect the RF activity bulletin board includes its own processor for faster response.

Following block in block the RF activity bulletin board compares the notification with the criteria for notification from each of the registered RF modules in the list. Based on the comparisons in block the RF activity bulletin board determines which of the registered RF modules should receive the notification. In one aspect each of the registered RF modules provides to the RF activity bulletin board a filter a priori. If a notification passes the criteria of the filter the notification will be relayed to the associated RF module. Once it is determined which of the registered RF modules should receive the notification the RF activity bulletin board relays the notification to each of those registered RF modules in block . If needed the notification may be relayed to both or just one of the receiver and the transmitter in the RF module depending on the criteria of the filter. In block the RF module receives the notification. In block the RF module takes appropriate actions based on the notification received i.e. the RF modules reacts to the notification. For example the RF module turns off its reception mode during transmission by the other RF module. In another example the RF module modifies the sensitive of its reception mode to reduce interference from the transmission. One skilled in the art would understand that the examples given are not intended to be exclusive and that many actions not mentioned herein may be appropriately taken by the RF modules without affecting the scope and spirit of the present disclosure.

One of the more common use cases is for a transmitter in a first RF module to notify its planned transmission activity while a receiver in a second RF module reacts to that notification. is an example flow diagram showing a transmitter to receiver use case. In block a transmitter in a first RF module sends a notification to the RF activity bulletin board of a transmission activity. In block the RF activity bulletin board relays the notification to a receiver in a second RF module. In block upon receipt of the notification the receiver reacts to the notification. Examples of how the receiver reacts include one or more of the following configure a notch filter to the known spur due to the anticipated transmission change the low noise amplifier LNA gain in the receiver increase linearity and or reschedule the receiver reception time etc. One skilled in the art would understand that the examples given herein are not meant to be an exclusive list and that other examples may be included or the examples mentioned herein excluded without affecting the scope and spirit of the present disclosure.

In another use case a transmitter in a first RF module notifies its planned transmission activity while a second transmitter in a second RF module reacts to that notification. is an example flow diagram showing a first transmitter to a second transmitter use case. In block the first transmitter in a first RF module sends a notification to the RF activity bulletin board of a transmission activity. In block the RF activity bulletin board relays the notification to a second transmitter in a second RF module. In block upon receipt of the notification the second transmitter reacts to the notification for example by rescheduling its transmission activities to avoid producing interference to reduce simultaneous peak current demand and or to reduce simultaneous peak power consumption i.e. the peak power transmission is thereby reduced etc. In one aspect the second transmitter may be a plurality of transmitters each within an RF module.

In another use case a receiver in a first RF module notifies its planned reception activity to request that other transmitters in the other RF modules reschedule their transmission activities. is an example flow diagram showing a receiver to transmitters use case. In block a receiver in a RF module sends a notification to the RF activity bulletin board requesting that one or more transmitters reschedule their transmission activities. In one aspect the notification includes a defined clean period with no transmission activities. In block the RF activity bulletin board relays the notification to the one or more transmitters. In block upon receipt of the notification the transmitters react to the notification for example by rescheduling their transmission activities away from the clean period i.e. not during the duration of the clean period or by sending an advanced notification of upcoming known transmission activities.

One skilled in the art would understand that the processes and modules described herein may be implemented by various ways such as hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. The various illustrative flow diagrams logical blocks modules and or circuits described herein may be implemented or performed with one or more processors. In one aspect a processor is coupled with a memory which stores data meta data program instructions etc. to be executed by the processor for implementing or performing the various flow diagrams logical blocks modules and or circuits described herein. shows an example of a device comprising a processor in communication with a memory for executing synchronization of RF module activities In one example the device is used to implement the processes illustrated in . In one aspect the memory is located within the processor . In another aspect the memory is external to the processor .

A processor may be a general purpose processor such as a microprocessor a specific application processor such a digital signal processor DSP or any other hardware platform capable of supporting software. Software shall be construed broadly to mean any combination of instructions data structures or program code whether referred to as software firmware middleware microcode or any other terminology. Alternatively a processor may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmable logic device PLD a field programmable gate array FPGA a controller a micro controller a state machine a combination of discrete hardware components or any combination thereof. With software the implementation may be through modules e.g. procedures functions etc. that perform the functions described therein. The various illustrative flow diagrams logical blocks modules and or circuits described herein may also implemented by software codes. The software codes may be stored in memory units and executed by one or more processors. The various illustrative flow diagrams logical blocks modules and or circuits described herein may also include computer readable medium for storing software. The computer readable medium may also include one or more storage devices a transmission line or a carrier wave that encodes a data signal.

One skilled in the art would understand that the techniques described herein may also be coded as computer readable instructions carried on any computer readable medium known in the art. In this specification and the appended claims the term computer readable medium refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to any processor such as but not limited to the processor shown and described in or the processor s described in for execution. In one aspect such a medium is of the storage type and takes the form of a volatile or non volatile storage medium for example as in the memory in or the memory described in . In one aspect such a medium is of the transmission type and includes a coaxial cable a copper wire an optical cable and the air interface carrying acoustic electromagnetic or optical waves capable of carrying signals readable by machines or computers. In the present disclosure signal carrying waves unless specifically identified are collectively called medium waves which include optical electromagnetic and acoustic waves.

The previous description of the disclosed aspects is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present disclosure. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure.

