---

title: Miniaturized smart self-calibration electronic pointing method and system
abstract: An innovative configuration of Miniaturized Smart Self-calibration EPD for mortar applications, as the azimuth/heading and elevation measurement device. This innovative EPD configuration uses only two FOGs or DTG and accelerometers and it is self-contained. This leads to a new EPD implementation that produces a small and light device with lower cost and adequate accuracy for the small dismounted mortar applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08311757&OS=08311757&RS=08311757
owner: American GNC Corporation
number: 08311757
owner_city: Simi Valley
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080814
---
This is a regular application of a provisional application having an application No. 60 964 899 and a filing date of Aug. 14 2007.

This invention was made with Government support under contracts W15QKN 06 C 0043 and W15QKN 06 C 0225 awarded by ARMY. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to a pointing device and more particularly to a self contained miniaturized smart self calibration Electronic Pointing Device EPD for dismounted mounted mortar weapons.

The mortar s barrel pointing is a process of elevation and azimuth determination followed by pointing correction. The attitude determination and mortar pointing correction could be either separated in time sub procedures or be a simultaneous process. The primary factors for the elevation and azimuth assignment are the coordinates of the mortar and the target on the map where the distance between the two points and the North direction is well defined. The mortar elevation is defined as an angle between its longitudinal axis and the earth s local horizontal plane. The mortar azimuth heading is defined as an angle between the true North direction and the longitudinal axis counted from the North line in the horizontal plane so that it complies with the map reading .

By definition the azimuth is the bearing angle between the North direction established by the line from the mortar base to the North and the longitudinal axis of the mortar barrel in a horizontal plane . The North direction is established on the map and or physically by the two points S and N as depicted in .

The mortar s elevation is easy to determine using the local gravity vector s projection on the mortar barrel axes. Similarly the Earth rate projections give the heading of the mortar. Two physical vectors gravity and Earth rate are widely used in a heading elevation determination for stationary objects and this process is known as gyrocompassing.

Special attention is needed in considering the attitude determination and alignment with respect to the local vertical and north directions for moving objects. Changing a mortar base position with the carrier s movement mounted mortar alters the measurements. In general we can not distinguish whether the attitude determination error initial misalignment or the real movement causes the measurements changes. External information about the mortar s moves with respect to the earth in addition to the inertial measurements is needed. This information can be derived from the GPS aided INS and DGPS attitude determination system.

Significant improvements can be made by taking into account the different behaviours of the mortar movement with respect to the earth and unknown initial misalignment i.e. initial heading and elevation these are unknown constants . In other words the different spectra of the desired quantity initial attitude and of the mortar movements at low frequency allow estimating eventually the current attitude. In some cases when the motions are well modeled with a restricted bandwidth in the frequency domain we can perform the attitude determination in parallel with inertial sensor calibration owing to the mortar s movements.

Returning to the dismounted mortar we shall concentrate on the sensors calibration and error compensation. Since the mortar barrel movements are essential for the calibration process we introduce the indexing device see chapter 2.6 for this purpose.

The main object of this invention is to implement test evaluate and demonstrate a self contained Miniaturized Smart Self calibration Electronic Pointing Device EPD for dismounted mounted mortar weapons. The EPD is based on small lightweight and relatively inexpensive inertial sensors with an indexing device and an AGNC s Coremicro Palm Navigator CPN for calibration and test aiding. The EPD features small size light weight portability and low cost with satisfactory performance for small mortar weapons and other fire control applications.

The major challenge of the invention is to realize a small size lightweight and rugged Electronic Pointing Device for small dismounted mortar applications with comparable accuracy and performance as to current mortar weapon pointing devices such as the Honeywell Talin II 3000.

American GNC AGNC has investigated and proved the feasibility of an innovative configuration of Miniaturized Smart Self calibration EPD for mortar applications as the azimuth heading and elevation measurement device. This innovative EPD configuration uses only two FOGs or DTG and accelerometers and it is self contained. This leads to a new EPD implementation that produces a small and light device with lower cost and adequate accuracy for the small dismounted mortar applications. We have built a prototype of the innovative EPD and test it in a laboratory testbed. The EPD system utilizes the AGNC IMU and Coremicro Palm Navigator incorporated in the indexing device. The system is used as the mortars azimuth heading and elevation measurement device. The system has a reduced number of gyroscopes from three to two. The indexing of the sensors orientation in the EPD to perform the system self calibration relaxes the requirements for the sensors from the inertial to the tactical grade . Thus the targeted gyro and accelerometer performance can be expressed as an in run stability of 0.005 deg hr min and 0.2 mg min respectively. The system uses the processor system of AGNC s existing Coremicro Palm Navigator as a computation platform for the EPD and a PDA is used as the user interface device for display and network communication.

We have successfully developed practical commercial integrated systems of the azimuth heading and elevation determination which could find wide applications in both the government and commercial sectors. The EPD system has been modeled and verified with a detailed simulation in different battlefield environments. The requirements for the inertial sensors performance self calibration procedure attitude determination algorithm and the communication interface IMU Coremicro Palm Navigator mortar squad leader Mortar Platoon Center have been analyzed and evaluated.

Currently azimuth and elevation determination of the mobile mortar howitzer is normally accomplished by using high precision inertial navigation systems with or without GPS aid MILNAV Kearfott Talin II 3000 Honeywell . However the weight is large the power consumption is large and the cost is high.

An indexing device allows performing in field automatic self calibration removing measurement biases and relaxing requirements to the gyro and accelerometer performance. This approach in turn yields a cost efficient solution along with precision attitude determination using tactical grade sensors with good short term stability.

In order to refine our system implementation approach for this invention we performed a great deal of research and analysis on survey of current systems and sensors the available state of the art technologies and techniques and comparison of the different system implementation approaches. According to our research we analyzed the following possible available system approaches for the mortar Electronic Pointing Device implementations 

This INS based system implementation approach can achieve very high accuracy but with big size over the Honeywell Talin II 3000 at present with current technologies.

We have demonstrated the feasibility of the technical approach 5 presented above as the EPD for the dismounted mortar. Details of the analysis based on the technical approach 5 are present as follows 

An indexing device allows performing in field automatic self calibration removing measurement biases and relaxing requirements to the gyro and accelerometer performance. This approach in turn gives a cost efficient solution along with precision attitude determination using tactical grade sensors with good short term stability.

This invention has laid a solid foundation to successfully develop and deliver practical commercial integrated systems of the azimuth heading and elevation determination which could find wide applications in both the government and commercial sectors. The EPD system has been modeled and verified with a detailed simulation in different battlefield environments. The requirements for the inertial sensors performance self calibration procedure attitude determination algorithm and communication interface IMU Palm Navigator mortar squad leader Mortar Platoon Center have been analyzed and evaluated.

We have concluded that an innovative configuration of the Miniaturized Smart Self calibration EPD for mortar applications as the azimuth heading and elevation measurement device using only two FOGs or DTG and accelerometers is feasible. This leads to a new EPD implementation that produces a small and light device with lower cost and adequate accuracy for the small dismounted mortar applications. AGNC s 21 years of experience in inertial navigation systems our matured navigation products and testing facilities are exploited in this invention. This invention leads us to choose the most cost efficient yet size and weight winning system configuration for the dismounted mortar EPD.

These and other objectives features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description the accompanying drawings and the appended claims.

The objective of this invention is to analyze evaluate and demonstrate the feasibility of an innovative Miniaturized Smart Self calibration Electronic Pointing Device EPD for dismounted mounted mortar weapons based on the AGNC coremicro Palm Navigator as shown in . The miniaturized and lightweight system provides complete and very accurate mortars motion measurements including azimuth heading and elevation angles plus mortar or vehicle position velocity linear acceleration and angular velocity. AGNC is an acronym of American GNC Corporation. Coremicro is a registered trademark of American GNC Corporation.

According to the invention s requirements the major challenge of the invention is to realize a small size lightweight and rugged EPD for small dismounted mortar applications with comparable accuracy and performance as to current mortar weapon pointing devices such as the Honeywell Talin II 3000.

In order to refine our system implementation approach for this invention we performed a great deal of research and analysis on survey of current systems and sensors the available state of the art technologies and techniques and comparison of the different system implementation approaches. According to our research and analysis and our past experience in this field for more than 20 years we analyzed the following possible available system approaches for the mortar Electronic Pointing Device implementations 

This INS based system implementation approach can achieve very high accuracy but with big size over the Honeywell Talin II 3000 at present with current technologies.

This invention has demonstrated the feasibility of the technical approach 5 presented above as a concept of the EPD for the dismounted mortar. Details of the analysis based on the technical approach 5 are present as follows 

An indexing device allows performing in field automatic self calibration removing measurement biases and relaxing requirements to the gyro and accelerometer performance. This approach in turn gives a cost efficient solution along with precision attitude determination using tactical grade sensors with good short term stability.

This invention has successfully developed practical commercial integrated systems of the azimuth heading and elevation determination which could find wide applications in both the government and commercial sectors. The EPD system has been modeled and verified with a detailed simulation in different battlefield environments. The requirements for the inertial sensors performance self calibration procedure attitude determination algorithm and communication interface IMU Palm Navigator mortar squad leader Mortar Platoon Center have been analyzed and evaluated.

We have concluded that an innovative configuration of the Miniaturized Smart Self calibration EPD for mortar applications as the azimuth heading and elevation measurement device using only two FOGs or DTG and accelerometers is feasible. This leads to a new EPD implementation that produces a small and light device with lower cost and adequate accuracy for the small dismounted mortar applications. AGNC s 21 years of experience in inertial navigation systems our matured navigation products and testing facilities are exploited in this invention. This invention produces a most cost efficient yet size and weight winning system configuration for the dismounted mortar EPD.

The mortar s barrel pointing is a process of elevation and azimuth determination followed by pointing correction. The attitude determination and mortar pointing correction could be either separated in time sub procedures or be a simultaneous process. The primary factors for the elevation and azimuth assignment are the coordinates of the mortar and the target on the map where the distance between the two points and the North direction is well defined. The mortar elevation is defined as an angle between its longitudinal axis and the earth s local horizontal plane. The mortar azimuth heading is defined as an angle between the true North direction and the longitudinal axis counted from the North line in the horizontal plane so that it complies with the map reading .

By definition the azimuth is the bearing angle between the North direction established by the line from the mortar base to the North and the longitudinal axis of the mortar barrel in a horizontal plane . The North direction is established on the map and or physically by the two points S and N as depicted in .

The mortar s elevation is easy to determine using the local gravity vector s projection on the mortar barrel axes. Similarly the Earth rate projections give the heading of the mortar. Two physical vectors gravity and Earth rate are widely used in a heading elevation determination for stationary objects and this process is known as gyrocompassing.

Special attention is needed in considering the attitude determination and alignment with respect to the local vertical and north directions for moving objects. Changing a mortar base position with the carrier s movement mounted mortar alters the measurements. In general we can not distinguish whether the attitude determination error initial misalignment or the real movement causes the measurements changes. External information about the mortar s moves with respect to the earth in addition to the inertial measurements is needed. This information can be derived from the GPS aided INS and DGPS attitude determination system.

Significant improvements can be made by taking into account the different behaviours of the mortar movement with respect to the earth and unknown initial misalignment i.e. initial heading and elevation these are unknown constants . In other words the different spectra of the desired quantity initial attitude and of the mortar movements at low frequency allow estimating eventually the current attitude. In some cases when the motions are well modeled with a restricted bandwidth in the frequency domain we can perform the attitude determination in parallel with inertial sensor calibration owing to the mortar s movements.

Returning to the dismounted mortar we shall concentrate on the sensors calibration and error compensation. Since the mortar barrel movements are essential for the calibration process we introduce the indexing device see chapter 2.6 for this purpose.

This approach uses a high accuracy navigation grade inertial navigation system INS as a mortar Electronic Pointing Device. This is a self contained system based on gyrocompass initialization and dead reckoning computation. Navigation grade gyros are the key sensors for the INS system. The realized systems vary in size weight and cost with different types of gyros 

In Table 2 1 the Honeywell Talin II 3000 and the Northrop FOG IMU Grumman LN 270 belong to this type though they can also operate in the GPS INS integration mode. In all FOG type IMUs only the Northrop Grumman FOG IMU LN 270 meets the same type of accuracy as the Honeywell Talin II 3000.

During initial alignment the INS based EPD obtains the true north and level reference autonomously through a so called gyrocompassing process. At the end of gyrocompassing it gets highly accurate initial heading azimuth and elevation attitude and starts the navigation mode.

In the navigation mode the INS based EPD tracks the true heading azimuth and elevation of the mortar tube in real time even under motion shock or other conditions. The tracking process does not need any external aiding devices that is why it is called self contained compared to other technologies such as DGPS or an optical method.

Current mortar weapons Pointing Devices are too big heavy and expensive. For example the Honeywell Talin II 3000 and the Northrop Grumman FOG IMU LN 270 require a big battery due to their high power consumption. They also need a heavy shock bracket to protect the RLG ring laser gyro . The whole system is too heavy especially for dismounted mortar weapons. This INS based system implementation approach can achieve very high accuracy but with big size at present with current technologies.

This approach uses a tactical grade INS but with a GPS receiver combined with some GPS INS integration technologies. This type of system can be small by using small gyros such as small FOGs quartz gyros even MEMS gyros. An example of this type of system is AGNC s coremicro AHRS INS GPS Integration Unit.

This system can only obtain high accuracy heading during a maneuvering motion or a short time after the maneuvering motion because the system needs GPS data and acceleration for heading calibration. This kind of system may not be suitable for a dismounted mortar if it does not move a lot in operation.

This approach uses a small and low cost inertial navigation system INS with GPS attitude determination as a mortar Electronic Pointing Device. This type of system combines the advantages of the high dynamics of an INS and the high accuracy of GPS attitude determination. Two or more GPS antennas are used.

AGNC has rich experience in integration of inertial navigation systems INS with GPS attitude determination. Our previously implemented Integrated GPS INS Mortar Pointing System solution has the advantages of low cost small and light weight. Its capability is limited by the magnitude of the tube s elevation angle.

It uses low cost MEMS gyros and low cost single frequency GPS in the AGNC Palm Navigator based EPD about 1K 2K cost for the whole system . It has the advantages of low cost and of being small lightweight and rugged. Disadvantages it needs to be assisted with highly accurate and more expensive dual frequency GPS systems to meet the mortar pointing accuracy requirements.

The previous Integrated GPS INS Mortar Pointing System design is driven by low cost and small size concerns. It is capable of measuring the heading when the mortar elevation angle is small. It has difficulty to measure the heading when the mortar elevation angle is large. Almost half of the GPS satellites signals are blocked by the tube. If high performance dual frequency GPS receivers are used the heading can be measured when the mortar elevation angle is large because the wide lane wave length of dual frequency is 86 cm instead of 19 cm for the single frequency.

Unlike gyrocompassing this approach is based on a navigation field created by GPS rather then on earth rate measurements and translates GPS determined baseline azimuth to the mortar heading by measuring bearing angles on the GPS antennas.

This system performs a triangulation on the baseline created by two GPS stands measuring distance and bearing angles to both baseline ends. Baseline data and measurements processed with the AGNC Coremicro Palm Navigator result in the azimuth and elevation angles of the mortar tube being determined. The concept of this approach is presented in and .

Baseline reference A number of sources suggest that it is possible to implement a GPS baseline reference with an accuracy long baseline length better then 0.25 mil in a few minutes i.e. almost instantly and up to 1 arc second with in a long time few hours surveying Ashtech product Promark2 . For the short baseline length 1 2 meters achievable accuracy is 0.5 deg in azimuth GPS compass JRL 10 Japan Radio Co. Ltd. Pilot SJ 500 Vector Pro Koden which shows that one needs to expand the baseline length 100 times to reach required accuracy. Establishing the baseline can more likely be done on a platoon level rather than for each mortar squad. The problem is to provide direct sight access to the baseline ends for each mortar. Once each mortar squad has the baseline in sight the Pointing Device needs to obtain bearing angles and calculate current elevation and heading.

Mortar sight The sight device attached to the mortar tube is to obtain its bearing angles to the ends of the baseline. The manual version of this devise can be implemented as an optical sight similar to M4 M53 sight units or M64 M67 M109 elbow telescopes utilized in mortar systems. The problem is to incorporate high accuracy encoders similar to the ones as an example from BEI Precision Systems Space Division Company in order to electronically read and transmit data to the Coremicro Palm Navigator . The next sequential step would be to automate a seek process holding and stabilizing the sight during the bearing angles measurement with the Coremicro IMU which makes the block functionally close to a tracking device for example TM5100A TDM5005 Leica Geosystems .

The above implementation of the EPD has the advantage of not requiring an inertial grade rate gyro and accelerometers but this is the only advantage. Complexity of the system due to the need to physically establish the baseline with the direct visibility and cost inefficiency of the optical sight are disadvantages of this approach.

The problem of attitude determination for a stationary object using inertial instruments can be thought of as a problem of accurate measurements of two physical vector components namely the local gravity and the earth s rotation rate. The requirement of 1 2 mils i.e. 0.98 1.96 milli radians in attitude determination leads to the need in performing acceleration and rate measurements with precision of 10 3. Thus the absolute measurement error is not to exceed 1 mg in acceleration and 0.01 degrees per hour in the rate.

A common error for any kind of inertial instrument is a bias. The magnitude of the bias is a primary parameter that defines the cost of the sensor. In this report we consider the minimal configuration two gyros and three accelerometers IMU in the indexing device as a sufficient system for the azimuth heading North Finding and elevation inclination determination for stationary objects. The software part of the system responsible for the measurements processing is designed utilizing the Kalman filter methodology. represents data flow of the Coremicro Palm Navigator for the EPD.

The AGNC Coremicro Palm Navigator controls the turntable position performing sequential indexing and collects and preprocesses measurements from the gyroscopes and accelerometers. Accumulated data is transferred to the AGNC Coremicro Palm Navigator. shows the structure and data flow of the EPD.

The Coremicro Palm Navigator provides wireless communication with the IMU and platoon command center processes data from the IMU removing permanent measurement errors and calculates true heading and elevation. The current mortar barrel attitude is displayed and transmitted to the command center.

Inertial navigation and attitude determination requires knowing the current acceleration and angular rate vectors of the IMU three orthogonal components for each vector . A dead reckoning processing algorithm provides the calculation of the increments in the current attitude linear velocity and coordinates with respect to some initial orientation and position. The navigation on the Earth using inertial measurements is possible after the local gravity and Earth angular rate vectors are defined i.e. the initial trihedral on the Earth is set and IMU sensitivity axes are aligned with respect to this initial coordinate system.

For the stationary IMU position the alignment process is actually the measurement of the Earth rate and gravity vectors projection onto the IMU sensitivity axes. Three angles the azimuth elevation and roll uniquely define the two physical vectors projection on the IMU axes and vice versa. Indeed the Earth rate value is known 15.04 deg hr and thus the two components of this vector along with the gravity vector components accelerometers measurements allow the determination of the IMU orientation with respect to the Earth.

The AGNC IMU is a main component of the EPD IMU. The two rate gyroscopes residing on the turntable indexing device are the inertial sensing components to provide the gyrocompassing. The indexing device serves for the self calibration of the IMU inertial sensors and allows removing the major gyro and accelerometer errors biases.

The range of measurements is chosen to provide continuous attitude determination during the dismounted mortar relatively slow targeting heading and elevation adjustment . The short term stability and noise requirements are imposed by the available time 60 sec for the accurate enough attitude determination. The bias limit is chosen as a reasonable number among the tactical grade inertial sensors FOG or DTG type and does not exceed a few orders of the short term stability magnitude. The models and parameters aid the analysis for the typical conditions or the EPD application.

The IMU controls the turntable position during the calibration cycle. The stepper motor through the gear transmission rotates the inertial sensors about the mortar barrel axis.

The FOG type of gyro promises the lowest G sensitivity in measurements and reasonable ratio between a bias and its short term stability. The advantage of using the DTG type of gyro is a small size and lower cost per axis but the price for that is an order of bias magnitude and critical G sensitivity. In addition the DTG needs to be supplied with rebalance electronics in order to work as a rate sensor.

The alternative choices in a system implementation using FOG or DTG are based on careful consideration and weighting of the EPD size and cost on the one hand and attitude determination time and accuracy on the other. For the EPD this is a cost accuracy dilemma. For civilian applications such as down hole surveying it would be a size time one. This careful consideration is done taking into account the noise properties of the output signal for both types of gyro. The noise of the FOG and DTG has a different nature model and parameters. It needs to be analyzed under the typical conditions for the EPD applications. Modeling and simulation of EPD performance with different sources of measurement errors and noise parameters allows making the right decision about the rate sensors utilization in the EPD.

For the AGNC requirements the range of measurements is chosen to provide continuous attitude determination during the dismounted mortar relatively slow targeting heading and elevation adjustment . The short term stability and noise requirements are imposed by the available time of 60 sec for accurate enough attitude determination. The bias limit is chosen as a reasonable number among the tactical grade inertial sensors FOG or DTG type and does not exceed a few orders of the short term stability magnitude.

The FOG type of gyro promises the lowest G sensitivity in measurements and reasonable ratio between a bias and its short term stability. The advantage of using the DTG type of gyro is a small size and lower cost per axis but the disadvantage is an order of magnitude higher bias and critical G sensitivity. In addition the DTG needs to be supplied with rebalance electronics in order to work as a rate sensor. The noise of the FOG and DTG is of different nature. The model and parameters need to be analyzed for the typical conditions of the EPD applications.

The ANSI IEEE Std 813 1988 IEEE Specification Format Guide and Test Procedure for Two Degrees of Freedom Dynamically Tuned Gyros defines the random drift term and evaluation procedure for this parameter. The short term stability parameter commonly used to characterize rate gyro accuracy has the same meaning by definition. This is why we can substitute the DTG random drift value for the bias short term stability in Table 1. Eventually the bias stability needs to be verified with a particular DTG ATP Acceptance Test Procedure and tested during the gyro validation for the EPD application.

The idea of the calibration procedure for the stationary positioned IMU is based on the fact that 180 degrees turn reverses the sensitivity axis direction and the ideal measurement of the rate changes sign. The discrepancy in the measured value for the opposite direction indicates signal bias.

As illustrated in the two positions of the gyro provide the reverse of its sensitivity axis. Thus position gives the measurement as a sum of the input rate and bias whereas in position the input rate has the opposite sign. Therefore the average of the measurements in two positions 180 degrees apart gives us the bias value and the difference between those measurements is a doubled input rate.

The time interval between two measurements at the different positions entails the possibility for the bias change. If this takes place the average of the two measurements would give us 

One of the primary reasons for the bias change in time is temperature variation. We can determine the bias temperature sensitivity parameter in a gyro specification. For example if the FOG and DTG have 0.1 deg hr deg C bias temperature sensitivity then for the EPD we can not allow a temperature variation during the calibration cycle 1 min of more than 0.1 C. The other way around this problem is to apply temperature compensation using the thermal model supplied with the gyro or derived as part of the gyro evaluation. Using thermal modeling and compensation reduces typically the temperature sensitivity residual errors by 10 100 times.

The output signal noise restricts the measurement accuracy. During the calibration time interval the random bias deviation can be treated as a possible bias change. A commonly used parameter to characterize this kind of instability is an angular random walk ARW .

Note in order to reach heading accuracy 1 mil less than in 1 min we need to have the inertial sensor angular random walk under the 0.002 deg hr. So the noise property of the FOG in the EPD is one of the major concerns.

The G sensitivity is one of the disadvantages using a DTG compared with a FOG. During the calibration cycle we change the gyro orientation with respect to the local gravity vector. As a result the gyro bias we try to compensate can jump from one turntable position to the other in the range of a few deg hr. Using the four position indexing 90 degrees turn instead of the two 180 degrees turn we have the capability to estimate some components of the G sensitive bias error and to restrain this kind of error. Along with a temperature compensation we probably can reduce the G sensitive error up to 0.2 0.05 deg hr for the given example DTG. .

The farther improvements once again we need to keep bias uncertainty under 0.01 deg hr may be achieved if the G sensitivity errors have some symmetrical property. In fact we do not change during the calibration cycle the spin axis component of the g projection which is the IMU mortar barrel longitudinal one. So our primary concern is the bias G sensitivity to the radial g projection. Due to the DTG symmetrical design we can expect that the difference between the G sensitivity to the acceleration along the sensitivity axis and in a cross direction radial rotor spinning plane would be under 0.01 deg hr g. This is our requirement Table 3 residual G sensitivity and it needs to be evaluated with the real DTG.

The calibration procedure for the stationary positioned IMU is based on the fact that a 180 degrees turn reverses the sensitivity axis direction and the ideal measurement of the rate or acceleration changes sign. The discrepancy in the measured value for the opposite direction indicates signal bias or perhaps non linearity. A sequential turn of 90 degrees as shown in allows elimination of bias and asymmetry in measurements and to relax requirements for the inertial sensors.

The indexing timing provides a full calibration cycle in less then 60 seconds which is the desirable time for the first attitude determination after powering up the IMU. The sequence of the turntable positions in a calibration cycle is chosen to provide the four positions 90 degrees apart and to restrict the range of the turntable angular evolution within 0 270 degrees. This restriction is important for the hardware design and eliminates the need to use slipper rings. One can use a flexible cable instead for the electrical connection.

The actual calibration cycle duration can vary depending on the current uncertainty in bias estimation. Once the inertial sensors biases are estimated accurately enough it is reasonable to slow down the calibration cycle reducing the power consumption and the additional errors introduced during the transition from one position to the other. The only limitation here is a bias deviation short time instability .

The turntable position needs to be known within 0.5 mrad for all indices 0 90 180 and 270 degrees . The current position during the transfer from one stationary position to the other has to be known with minimum possible uncertainty.

The main focus in the algorithm design and implementation for the EPD is a combination of the Kalman filter data processing and turntable control algorithm. The Kalman filter provides the current estimation of the azimuth and elevation angle along with biases and other observable inertial sensors errors minimizing in general the error dispersion of the estimated parameters. The limit of this minimization like for any filtering process depends on the signal to noise ratio. As applied to the data processing in the EPD the minimal level of the residual errors depends on the turntable control algorithm. Indeed if we do not move the turntable at all we are not able to calibrate and compensate measurement error. If we move the turntable continuously the uncertainty in its current position and some dynamic errors are introduced and could prevent us from sufficiently accurate parameter estimation. Therefore there is some optimum motion profiling.

The Kalman filter algorithm provides us with optimal biases and current attitude estimation including azimuth and elevation determination. This part of the software works independently from the indexing device servo control and effectively filters out the measurement noise and random deviations. In general the transient process in a Kalman filter can be adjusted to the desirable behavior by choosing its parameters such as correlation matrix of the measurement errors and correlation matrix of the state vector deviations. The limitation here is the ability to filter out real measurement noise and to follow the slow changes in the estimated variables. The initial uncertainty in the estimated parameters is essential for the transient especially for the non linear system. Here and below we assume that the initial discrepancy between the real and estimated angles is 10 degrees and the inertial sensors biases to be estimated are 10 mg for the accelerometers and 1.5 deg hr for the gyros.

The simulation model is composed of two parts. The first part provides the full simulation of the measurements. The current biases and attitude along with the random biases and angles azimuth elevation roll and turntable position deviations are all taken into account to produce sequential series of measurements. The turntable position is simulated as a sequence of 0 90 180 270 180 90 0 degrees turn. The second part of the simulation model takes simulated measurements as an input and calculates current estimation of the inertial sensor biases azimuth elevation and roll angles.

The GUI of the simulation program is depicted in . The result of the simulation is presented in a chart as a transient of the attitude determination and biases estimation.

The Kalman filter algorithm provides us with optimal biases and current attitude estimation including azimuth and elevation determination. This part works independently from the indexing device servo control and effectively filters out the measurement noise and random deviations.

In general the transient process can be adjusted to the desirable behavior by choosing its parameters such as correlation matrix of the measurement errors and correlation matrix of the state vector deviations. The limitation here is the ability to filter out real measurement noise and to follow the slow changes in the estimated variables.

The initial uncertainty in the estimated parameters is essential for the transient phase especially for non linear systems. Here we assume that the initial discrepancy between the real and estimated angles is 10 degrees and that the inertial sensors biases to be estimated are 10 mg and 10 deg hr for the accelerometers and gyros respectively. The typical transients are simulated with no error in the current turntable position. The transient process in the attitude determination is depicted in .

The transient process takes 1 min to reduce the estimation error from 10 degrees to 1 milli radian. The piecewise shape is due to the indexing profile in a calibration cycle the yellow line in the figure .

As we can see the estimation error goes down from 10 mg to 0.5 mg in less than 60 seconds. The next chart shows the transient in gyro biases estimation. The initial error 5 10 deg hr is reduced to under 0.015 deg hr in less than 60 70 seconds.

This process as well as the accelerometers biases estimation runs at the same time with the attitude determination.

The biases and attitude estimation process tends to converge to the accurate value mostly during the transition of the turntable from one position to the other. In other words the estimation process relies on the turntable position change that gives actually the observability for the biases and attitude simultaneous estimation as described in Chapter 1. Any uncertainty in the turntable position leads to estimation errors. The most sensitive stage of the estimation process is the transition of the turntable from one position to the other when the uncertainty in its position is relatively large.

Considering the error in a turntable rate of 30 deg sec to be 1 we get the simulation results for the biases estimation as shown in and . The azimuth and elevation estimation process has a very small distortion.

Thus 1 accuracy in the turntable rate during the transition from one position to the other is a good enough level for an accurate 1 2 mil attitude determination.

The disturbance in the accelerometer bias estimation does not exceed 1 mg compare and and in the gyro bias case it is less than 0.01 deg hr see and 

The results of this simulation comply with the following rough estimation. During the transition the turntable changes the position by 90 degrees. The 1 error gives us the average uncertainty in the current roll angle of 0.45 degree i.e. 7.5 mrad. During the calibration cycle of 1 min this error is reduced by the ratio between the transient time and the stationary interval which is 0.3 7 sec stationary position and 3 sec transition . Therefore the effective average error due to the 1 turntable rate uncertainty is 2.2 mrad. During the calibration cycle the turntable changes the direction of the rotation CW from 0 to 270 deg and CCW from 270 to 0 deg . Thus the error in the roll angle goes back to zero once we return to the start initial position. Now we can treat the derived effective error of 2.2 10as a relative error of the Earth rate and gravity measurements that finally gives 1 mg and 0.015 deg hr range in bias estimation. The attitude determination is almost intact because the Kalman filter assumes the azimuth and elevation to be constant static mortar position and keeps looking for the possible bias change.

The measurement random noise level determines the time needed for the accurate attitude determination. Considering the gyro noise 0.005 deg hr as specified for the FOG 600 the transient in the attitude determination is shown in .

The transient is delayed by more the 15 min due to the problem in gyro bias estimation. The best Kalman filter estimation at this level of the measurement noise is shown in .

The major assumption in building the EPD for the dismounted mortar is that the mortar barrel does not move during the attitude determination process. There is a need to correct mortar barrel pointing from time to time. In a correction mode we can not continue azimuth and elevation determination unless additional information about the current mortar position with respect to the base is available. Such information can be derived for example from the angle measurements with encoders mounted on the mortar.

Using the high quality INS in the pointing correction mode we actually assume that the initial alignment is already done and dead reckoning allows maintaining current azimuth and elevation estimation within the orientation calculation accuracy i.e. the inertial rate sensors measurement accuracy. The same approach we consider here for our self calibration EPD.

Two notes need to be made. First using tactical grade inertial sensors we continuously perform the bias calibration during the azimuth elevation determination process. Once we start pointing correction the bias estimation needs to be frozen in order to keep the initial bias estimation during the large disturbance in the rate measurements. Therefore the duration of the mortar pointing correction shall not exceed the time which is limited by the bias instability that is 1 2 min. Otherwise the bias estimation accuracy degrades and it would take some time to recover after the correction mode. Second with the minimal IMU configuration we use and calibrate two rate sensors for the attitude determination in a stationary position. In a pointing correction mode we employ dead reckoning that requires three projections of the rate measured. The indexing error analysis 2.6.3.3. gives a range of the desirable accuracy in a roll change during the pointing correction. Taking into account that the total roll change is a few degrees or less we probably can use the tactical grade sensor with 1 errors for this component of the rate measurement in the dead reckoning whereas the other two components of the rate are measured with the calibrated to high levels of accuracy rate sensors .

The above described approach allows us to keep accurate enough bias estimation and current attitude determination in the range of a few milli radians during the mortar pointing correction with a duration 1 2 minutes . Returning to the stationary position the system recovers the original accuracy in less than half of the calibration cycle that is in 20 sec.

The implementation of the data processing Kalman filtering requires more robust extended algorithm. The algorithm diagram is shown in the next .

Based on the previous accomplishments of the past experience we are able to devise an EPD prototype system configuration with both hardware and software components mostly decided. As shown in the devised EPD prototype system consists of 

Major hardware components for the EPD prototype system include two accelerometers indexing device and its controller and other test circuit modules. The characteristics and interface of the received accelerometers are described and discussed next.

The accelerometers include a current output and internal temperature sensor. By applying temperature compensating algorithms bias scale factor and axis misalignment performance are dramatically improved. Implementation of the thermal modeling results in bias residual errors as low as 200 g and scale factor errors as low as 400 ppm.

The accelerometer consists of an analog torque balance sensor incorporating fused quartz flexures with support structure and permanent magnet torquer a capacitive pick off system and self contained servo electronics. The output signal is a current equal to the analog restoring current and proportional to acceleration. Enhanced performance is achieved through mathematical modeling of bias scale factor and axis misalignment over the operating temperature range. Modeling is referenced to the output current of a temperature sensor within the accelerometer. The hybrid electronics supplied with the is capable of at least 125 mA output current to the torque motor circuit with input supply voltages set at 15.0 VDC.

The objective of this invention is to implement test evaluate and demonstrate a self contained Miniaturized Smart Self calibration Electronic Pointing Device EPD for dismounted mounted mortar weapons. The EPD is based on small lightweight and relatively inexpensive inertial sensors with an indexing device and an AGNC Coremicro Palm Navigator CPN for calibration and test aiding. Our targeted EPD features small size light weight portability and low cost with satisfactory performance for small mortar weapons and other fire control applications. We have devised an EPD prototype system configuration with most of its hardware using the COTS components. As shown in the devised EPD prototype system hardware consists of 

The dynamically tuned gyro DTG is a miniature two degree of freedom gyroscope developed to meet a wide variety of applications for guidance control and stabilization. The inherent mechanical stability of the gyro s one piece suspension provides two axes of highly reliable low drift information capable of performing over a wide environmental range. Repeatable performance is assured over the temperature range allowing easy modeling and eliminating the need for heaters in most applications.

The DTG is used as a position sensor when mounted on a platform in a gimbaled system or as a rate sensor in the strapdown mode. In our EPD system the DTG gyro is working in the strapdown mode to output 2 DOF of angular rates. The whole DTG subsystem is composed of an inertial rate sensor gyro and support electronics. The inertial rate sensor is a dynamically tuned gyro. The support electronics design features a power supply board and associated instrument caging electronics. Industrial grade components are used in the support electronics design. The gyro provides measurements of the inertial rates of the platform in two orthogonal axes. Outputs from the gyro are analog voltages proportional to rate and BIT status.

In our EPD system the outputs of the DTG gyro and the accelerometers are all analog signals. Therefore we have developed a suite of ADC circuit modules to interface the inertial sensors to the data processing computer. The developed ADC interface modules have been tested with a PC Windows system which is the data processing platform for the EPD prototype as depicted in . After the ADC interface is verified we are currently developing a suite of ADC interface drivers and API program which is used by the EPD software to communicate with the ADC interface modules and acquire data from the DTG gyro and the accelerometers. In this chapter the characteristics of the developed ADC interface modules their circuit configurations and testing approaches are described and discussed.

We use a prototype ADC which contains an 8 16 channel 24 bit ADC IC chip. ADC is a demonstration boards. It is designed to allow easy evaluation of the ADC and can be connected directly to the target application s analog signals while using the USB Serial Controller. The USB Serial Controller board and supplied software to measure performance. The exposed ground planes allow proper grounding to prototype circuitry. After evaluating with software the digital signals can be connected to the application s processor controller for development of the serial interface.

The inertial sensor assembly of the EPD consists of one 2 axis 2 channel DTG gyro and two single axis accelerometers. The 2 axis DTG with circuit module force re balance motor driver and output signal interface is used for sensing the earth rate and mortar angular motion. The two accelerometers are used for sensing gravity. The outputs of the gyro and accelerometers are analog currents or voltages. In the EDP circuit interface design all the outputs are converted to analog voltages and are digitized by an 8 16 channel ADC module. The ADC channel assignment of the sensor signal is described in the following table.

During this reporting period the developed ADC module and the sensors were further tested with a PC Windows system to verify the ADC resolution and the sensors stability. For the testing and prototyping with the PC Windows system a USB serial controller was used to interface the ADC module with the PC for acquiring data from the DTG gyro and the accelerometers as depicted in .

For the embedded system implementation we are going to use a dedicated microcontroller to interface the ADC module with EPD data processing computer as depicted in . A suite of ADC interface drivers and API program are developed for PC and the interfacing microcontroller respectively.

In order to achieve high accuracy the EPD inertial sensors the DTG gyro and accelerometer must be compensated for their deterministic errors. For EPD sensor data processing according to the sensor testing data we have designed a suite of algorithms and programs for sensor error compensation and calibration which are necessary for EPD implementation in order to achieve high pointing accuracy. In the EPD system the inertial sensors deterministic errors compensation includes 

For the accelerometer we have received the lab test data sheet for the bias and scale factor temperature compensation with the delivery of the devices. The following is a brief description of the accelerometer temperature compensation method and algorithms. A suite of programs have been developed for the test of the compensation method and algorithms.

The accelerometer output signal is a current equal to the analog restoring current and proportional to acceleration. Enhanced performance is achieved through mathematical modeling of bias and scale factor over the operating temperature range. Modeling is referenced to the output current of a temperature sensor within the accelerometer.

Nominal values of the scale factor and bias apply at 24 5 C. The scale factor and bias calibration data provided are referenced to local gravity. To achieve accuracy over temperature accelerometer performance parameters are thermally modeled. Both scale factor and bias are modeled over the operating temperature range. Fourth order polynomial temperature models for bias and scale factor are provided. Use of the models to process output data has the effect of canceling temperature sensitivity which greatly enhances performance within the operating temperature range.

1. Temperature a. Measure the temperature sensor current to the nearest 0.1 microampere 0.1 C. . b. Subtract 293.0 microamperes to normalize the temperature to approximately 20 C. Assign variable name A.

The C0 and B0 terms are constants found among the modeling information supplied with the accelerometer. The other B and C terms are the higher order terms coefficients also in the modeling information.

In order to achieve high accuracy the EPD inertial sensors the DTG gyro and accelerometers must be compensated for their deterministic errors. In the EPD system the inertial sensors deterministic errors compensation includes 

For EPD sensor data processing according to the sensor test data we have designed a suite of algorithms and programs for sensor error compensation and calibration which are necessary for EPD implementation in order to achieve high pointing accuracy. Error compensation algorithms for the accelerometers are also utilized. Next we present a description of the DTG sensor error compensation and calibration algorithms.

Except for the first error item the other items are all deterministic errors which means that they can be estimated and compensated through a systematic approach. In fact for the DTG gyro these deterministic errors can be quite large and must be compensated in a practical application in order to achieve high system accuracy.

According to the DTG gyro specification we choose the bias thermal stability is 0.1 degree hr C. This means if the temperature changes 10 degrees it could induce a rate drift of 1 degree hr. Considering the nominal gyro accuracy of 0.05 degree hr this temperature induced gyro drift must be compensated.

In contrast to the accelerometers the DTG gyro we selected for the EPD does not have an embedded temperature sensor and the manufacturer does not provide the temperature model parameters. Therefore we use an external temperature sensor with other sensors for DTG gyro temperature measurement and establish a temperature model for each gyro through a lab test procedure

The parameters Bto Bare determined by a lab test procedure. The gyro drift must be measured at 4 different temperature points in order to determine the parameters Bto B. Usually 8 to 10 temperature points are used and a least squares optimal estimation method is used for parameter calculation by solving the following equations 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 

As long as the temperature model for gyro bias is established it can be used to compensate the temperature induced gyro drift.

The EPD is based on the inertial vector measurement of the angular velocity and linear acceleration with respect to the EPD assembly case coordinate system. Ideally the sensor input axis must be coincident with the respective EPD assembly case axis. If the two respective axes are not coincident an error is induced called misalignment error. The misalignment error can also be caused by imprecision in the installation of the sensor into the EPD assembly. For the DTG gyro used in the EPD the axis misalignment can be as big as 0.2 deg so it must be compensated for each sensor axis.

In navigation systems the definition of the coordinate system is essential for system design and implementation since most of the system measurements and computations are performed with respect to a series of coordinate systems. The body coordinate system is an orthogonal right handed Cartesian frame with 3 coordinate axes X Y and Z. After the body frame is defined the sensor measurements are performed with respect to their corresponding axes. For example the body angular velocity is measured by 3 gyros in three axes denoted as 

If it is assumed that the sensors sensitive axes are identical to the respective body frame axes the angular velocity components can be taken directly from the outputs of the 3 sensors 

In a practical system however the actual sensitive axes of the sensors are not always identical to the respective body frame axes because of errors in fabrication assembly or installation. This error in the sensor axis placement in a practical system is called sensor misalignment. To achieve high accuracy in the navigation system the sensor misalignment must be determined by a calibration procedure and be compensated in the system processing.

In the EPD Unit the sensor misalignment for gyros and accelerometers is addressed. After a unit is assembled the sensor misalignments with respect to the unit body frame are fixed. The following two procedures are performed on every unit 

The actual angular position of a sensor axis in the unit body frame can be represented by a unit vector in the body frame denoted by Sx Sy Sz as shown in .

where is angle between the vector and Xaxis is angle between the vector and Yaxis is angle between the vector and Zaxis. And the 3 angles are related by the equation cos cos cos 1 For the sensors gyros or accelerometers in the EPD unit their position in the unit body frame is represented by 

If there is no sensor axis misalignment Sis identical with X Sis identical with Y and Sis identical with Z. The sensor representative vectors become 

or the corresponding angles. In the system processing the components of the unit vectors are useful and AGNC s misalignment calibration methods can directly compute them. After the components are determined the sensor axis misalignment induced angular error can be expressed as 

AGNC has developed a suite of sensor misalignment calibration methods for its navigator products. For the EPD system used for attitude elevation and heading azimuth determination the calibration method is briefly described in this section as follows.

After the unit is assembled every sensor s axis position in the unit body frame is fixed and will not change until the sensors are reassembled later for repair or maintenance. The objective of the misalignment calibration is to determine the sensors axes position in the unit body frame which are represented by a set of unit vectors as discussed in the last section.

The principle of the misalignment calibration is to excite the sensors at multiple known angular positions and process the data acquired. The process is 

For the gyro calibration using a 6 position method the input exciting physical vector is a constant angular rate applied by the rate table and the block is put on the rate table at 6 positions determined by the 6 surfaces of the orthogonal block. The input angular rates velocities at the 6 positions expressed in the unit body frame are as follows 

Similarly for the accelerometer calibration using a 6 position method the input exciting physical vector is the earth s gravity and the block is put on a precisely leveled platform at 6 positions determined by the 6 surfaces of the orthogonal block. The input specific force gravity at the 6 positions expressed in the unit body frame is as follows 

The data collected at multiple positions are then processed by the AGNC s sensor calibration software and for every sensor gyro accelerometer or magnetometer we obtain its axes position expressed by a unit vector as 

Based on the axes positions for a sensor triad 3 gyros or accelerometers a matrix is obtained in the system processing for the misalignment compensation. This matrix transforms the sensor outputs which are measured by the sensors at their misaligned position to the equivalent sensor measurements in the body frame that can be used correctly by the user.

where Mis the gyro axis misalignment compensation matrix is the vector of 3 sensors outputs is the calibrated gyro output expressed in the unit body frame.

where Mis the accelerometer axis misalignment compensation matrix fis the vector of 3 sensors outputs fis the calibrated accelerometer output expressed in the unit body frame.

We performed the EPD sensor interface controller design and implementation using the AGNC CPN processing platform. The sensor assembly of the EPD consists of one 2 axis 2 channel DTG gyro and two single axis accelerometers. All sensor output signals are analog voltages and are digitized by an ADC module. The sensor output signals characteristics and the ADC channel assignment are described in the following table.

During most of the EPD operation the accelerometers will sense the gravity thus their outputs are within 1.3 mA. Using a resistor of 3.3 K we get a voltage of 4.29V for the ADC converter.

The accelerometer temperature current output can also be transformed to a voltage by a 10K resistor load.

The scale factor of the gyro is about 0.877 v sec. To accurately measure the angular rate of 0.01 hr we need an ADC with a resolution about 22 bit. The earth rate of 15 hr is measured at about 0.00365 V 3.65 mV 3650 V. Thus the accuracy of the ADC should be better than 3.65 V. In our ADC circuit special programmable gain amplifier and ADC calibration processing are used to maintain the required accuracy.

The user interface of the ADC module is an SPI serial port. To operate the ADC module a special SPI interface is implemented by the CPN to control the operation of the ADC module. The acquired sensor data are then transmitted to the system processor implemented by the CPN processors via a high speed RS 232 port as depicted in . The ADC software design includes the AGNC s CPN program for ADC process control through the SPI bus and CPN based API for ADC data acquisition and basic sensor calibration and compensation processing

The mechanical design and machining of the EPD sensor assembly are finished and the EPD sensors and circuits are assembled together for test and evaluation. The EPD sensor assembly is tested on a 2 axis platform for further verification of the sensor accuracy and the installation accuracy of the sensors in the assembly. Then the sensor assembly is mounted on the indexing device for the inertial sensor calibration tests. Two configurations for mounting of the sensor assembly on the indexing device are tested evaluated and compared for their performance and suitability in our EPD application. A brief description of the EPD sensor assembly is presented. The two configurations for mounting of the sensor assembly and its coordinate system definitions are discussed.

The EPD sensor assembly consists of one 2 axis 2 channel DTG gyro two single axis accelerometers an ADC board and an AGNC CPN for ADC control and basic sensor data processing.

The EPD is mounted on the mortar to determine the mortar s elevation pitch and azimuth heading through the measurements of the earth rate gravity and the mortar s angular motion. We define a mortar body coordinate system body frame which is fixed on the mortar body and with the X axis aligned with the mortar tube. Then the mortar elevation pitch is defined as the angle between the X axis and the level plane. The azimuth heading is defined as the angle between the true north and the X axis s projection on the level plane. The roll angle that is related to the mortar body s angular position does not affect the mortar tube s pointing direction.

In practice for simplicity we define the EPD sensor assembly s coordinate system sensor frame to be coincident with mortar body frame B frame . Thus the EPD B frame angular position and the mortar angular position have the following relationship 

The roll angle of the EPD is not required for mortar pointing but we need to resolve it inside the EPD processing for mortar EPD attitude determination.

In the EPD system we use three different but equivalent methods for the mortar attitude representation 

The Euler angles are a very intuitive method and they are required for output but they are not used for internal processing because they involve too many trigonometric function calculations. The Euler angle representation has a singular point at pitch 90 degrees where the heading and roll become indeterminate. Therefore in the EPD system processing we use quaternion and DCM for internal processing and only for the output the quaternion and DCM representations are transformed to Euler angle representation.

In the EPD system in order to facilitate the inertial sensor calibration and enhance the system accuracy an indexing device is used to move the EPD sensor assembly in different positions when the system is starting or during the system operation. shows the EPD sensor assembly mounted on the indexing device for testing.

In principle there can be several different angular positions to mount the EPD sensor assembly and the indexing device on the mortar. In this invention we will test and evaluate two positions for sensor assembly mounting. through depict the EPD body frame definitions and mounting configurations on the mortar. For the two mounting configurations the EPD body frame definitions are different.

The mounting configuration directly attaches the EPD sensor assembly to the mortar tube. The indexing device rotation axis is aligned with Z. The attitude determination range for this mounting configuration is 

The mounting configuration attaches the EPD sensor assembly to the mortar tube via a T shape connector. The indexing device rotation axis is aligned with X. The attitude determination range for this mounting configuration is 

In present invention formulates the algorithms related to the indexing device based sensor calibration which is one of the special features of the EPD system. A summary of the calibration algorithms is presented in the following sections.

In order to reduce the system error induced by the drift of the gyro bias which is a major error source of the EPD system we use an indexing device to enhance the observability of the gyro bias errors. As depicted in the indexing device is installed between the mounting base and the EPD sensor assembly and its motor is automatically controlled by the EPD master processor or a separate PC in the testing system . According to the calibration requirements the EPD sensor assembly is driven to rotate around its Z axis. In the EPD System because of the limitation of the EPD sensor assembly cable the angular motion range is limited to 90 degrees to 90 degrees.

During the sensor calibration process the EPD sensor assembly is driven to stop at different angular positions and the EPD calibration program collects the sensor data at each point position and performs calibration processing iteration for each point or performs a batch process after the EPD calibration program collects data at all the stop points.

Usually the sensor calibration process is performed after the system is started. This will reduce or eliminate the gyro bias non repeatability errors. If the gyro in run bias drift is large and needs to be recalibrated a runtime sensor calibration process can be performed periodically at a certain time interval such as 20 minutes or 1 hour depending on the value of the uncompensated gyro bias drift. If we require that the normal operation of the EPD can not be interrupted by the sensor calibration process based on the indexing device then the EPD system processing must consider to rebalance or compensate the effect of the indexing device caused motion.

We have devised and analyzed two types of the indexing device based sensor calibration processes one is two position method and the other is a multi position method. For the two position method the indexing device only needs to stop at two points at the original point and another stop point. The two position method is very fast for it only needs to move the indexing device to another stop point. The disadvantage of this method is that it needs to know the exact motion angle of the indexing device the angle value . This value is controlled by the indexing device motor and its control circuits and the error in the angle value will cause sensor calibration error.

For the multi position method the indexing device must stop at three or more points during the calibration procedure. The advantage of this method is that it does not need to know the motion angles of the indexing device etc. as long as they are not zero and are large enough. And if more than three points are used the calibration process can use the redundant information and an optimal estimation method to enhance the calibration accuracy.

For either of the two types of the indexing device based sensor calibration processes the accuracy is related to the values of etc. the larger the delta value the higher the calibration accuracy. Thus for the second method the stop points are approximately evenly distributed in the range of 90 90 degrees.

In a practical EPD system the indexing device based sensor calibration processes comprise the following steps 

One skilled in the art will understand that the embodiment of the present invention as shown in the drawings and described above is exemplary only and not intended to be limiting.

It will thus be seen that the objects of the present invention have been fully and effectively accomplished. It embodiments have been shown and described for the purposes of illustrating the functional and structural principles of the present invention and is subject to change without departure from such principles. Therefore this invention includes all modifications encompassed within the spirit and scope of the following claims.

