---

title: Method for automatically detecting and characterizing spectral activity
abstract: The invention disclosed herein provides a computer implementable method for characterizing signals in a frequency domain spectrum where such signals may be a wideband signal while individually being of varied formats such as tones, analog modulation, digital modulation, etc. The invention employs statistical probability models where mean, standard deviation, histograms, and probability density functions are analogous to center frequency, bandwidth, frequency spectrum, and signal models, respectively. The invention reconstructs a frequency spectrum showing signals of interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07904263&OS=07904263&RS=07904263
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 07904263
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080924
---
This patent application claims the priority benefit of the filing date of a provisional application Ser. No. 61 132 341 filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on May 30 2008.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

The objective of the present invention is to determine the presence of signals in the frequency spectrum and characterize them. These signals are typically represented in terms of parameters such as energy noise signal to noise ratio SNR bandwidth and center frequency.

The prior art has provided spectral estimation techniques where the receiver collects a wide band signal that contains frequency allocated signals in different formats. The wideband signal may contain tones and analog and digital modulation types. Spectral survey estimation methods do a spectral search to identify signals of interests. Thus far prior art method for the detection of signals requires the use of frequency or time domain techniques.

Referring to a prior art spectral survey estimator is depicted. The analysis filter bank decomposes the input signal in narrow band channels to produce a spectral estimate. This step can also be accomplished by using DFT based spectral methods. The output of the channels are sent to a spectral survey estimator such as the one presented in 3 . The process estimates the number of signals that are present and determines the corresponding frequency and bandwidth estimates. The estimates are used to recover the individual signals. depicts the flow of the entire process corresponding to the hardware implementation of .

Prior art methods 1 2 use time domain techniques that require the use of frequency locking devices. These methods are more suitable for a hardware implementation because phase locking techniques are inefficient when applied for digitized samples 17 .

Developments in speech processing for example 7 have provided some methodology for classifying speech signal spectra. Basu and other authors acknowledge that a special case of the expectation maximization EM method known as Gaussian Mixture Models does not always provide a suitable statistical model. In the case of speech processing it is important to model heavy tailed distributions. Basu also uses several models of non Gaussian distributions. This particular distribution has a flatter response and provides the convenience of reducing the complexity of the expectation when the log likelihood is applied. Basu s method is applied on cepstral vectors which are used for extracting formant and vocal track information. There is no implicit or explicit intention to detect and demultiplex signals.

Referring to prior art Gaussian Mixture Models GMM are a special case of the maximization of expectation process. It defines the model in terms of Gaussian densities. The parameters of the model include the probability of each mixture element a vector of the mean and a covariance matrix. While the use of a Gaussian distribution simplifies the maximization of the log likelihood and produces a matrix equation that is easy to implement it does not produce acceptable results.

A frequency spectrum can be treated in the same manner as a mixture of probability density functions. Because the profile of communications signals in the spectrum resembles bell shape densities see a reasonable first choice would be to model signals using Gaussian distributions. In a one dimensional space the mixture probability becomes the amplitude bandwidth product the mean becomes the center frequency f and the standard deviation the bandwidth b the data vector right arrow over y becomes a scalar y . The data contains the information about the frequencies in the spectrum.

It has been assumed that the weight amplitude wis a positive integer corresponding to the number of repetitions. The proposed process extends the definition of the weights for any positive number. The pair y w will be used to represent the spectral density with frequency bin yand amplitude w.

The Gaussian based process was developed using similar steps as those found in 21 and incorporated the modifications of equations 6 through 10. Then the expression was maximized and the formulas for updating the parameters were obtained.

After running several simulations it was observed that the foregoing Gaussian based process fails to identify signal parameters or useful features for estimation of the signal parameters. For a Gaussian model there is no sharp transition between the pass band and the stop band. These wide transitions interfere with ones of the adjacent signals. The process has convergence problems due to the interference between Gaussian mixture elements and the model is not suitable for characterizing communication signals. A new process with a flatter pass band and clear transition between the pass and stop band is needed see and provides the motivation for the present invention.

Other probability densities were explored to overcome the limitations and failings of Gaussian based processes for the estimation of signal parameters. First a Butterworth filter model was used Eq. 11 . But this process is not convenient because it produces a combination of complex logarithmic and rational expressions when the expectation is maximized.

One object of the present invention is to provide a method to determine the presence of signals in the frequency spectrum.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a method that separates signals of interest in the frequency spectrum into respective frequency bands.

Yet another object of the present invention is to apply a statistical process to the detection and categorization of signals of interest.

Still yet another object of the present invention is to adapt statistical parameters to represent the frequency domain parameters of a signal.

The invention disclosed herein provides a method for characterizing signals in a frequency domain spectrum where such signals may comprise a wideband signal individually composed of varied formats such as tones analog modulation digital modulation etc. The present invention employs statistical probability models where mean standard deviation histograms and probability density functions are analogous to center frequency bandwidth frequency spectrum and signal models respectively.

The present invention performs spectral survey estimation using a novel approach based in a statistical method known as expectation maximization. Within the context of this invention the terms mixture elements mean standard deviation and histogram are the statistical probability density equivalents of sub band center frequency bandwidth and spectrum in the frequency domain. Spectral survey should not be confused with channel estimation. The goal of channel estimation is to characterize the channel in terms of parameters like bandwidth center frequency delay distortion and noise 2 8 11 . In the case of spectral survey the attention is focused on the signal profile rather than the channel effects. Channel estimation is used to mitigate the channel effects on the received signal while spectral survey is used for demultiplexing signals in the spectrum.

The present invention unlike prior art methods including those that employ Gaussian Mixture Models see features additional novel steps that allow processing the frequency spectrum ensuring convergence to optimal solutions and working independently of the number of signals that may be present in the spectrum. Unlike prior art speech classification techniques the present invention does not perform signal classification or training for classification. The method used in the present invention is a novel type of curve fitting that matches the spectral signals to a parameterized spectral model. depicts a frequency spectrum with MPSK MFSK and tone signals. depicts the application of the present invention to the frequency spectrum of . The outputs of the process are amplitude bandwidth and center frequency. When this process is combined with efficient filter banks other parameters such as SNR and energy can be estimated. If an analytical solution to the maximization problem is not feasible an alternative numerical method using Newton s algorithm can be developed 15 .

The present invention treats the frequency spectrum as a histogram. A broadband spectrum can be seen as a mixture of density distributions. The statistical parameters could be adapted to represent the parameters of a signal.

The present invention employs several novel steps to deal with spectral information. After selecting a statistical model the maximization of the expectation is found by means of a numerical approximation. The process is initialized and a suboptimal solution is found. Further processing is required to identify the trivial and suboptimal solutions before reconstructing the spectral profile of the signals. With the aid of efficient filter banks parameter estimation of energy noise floor and SNR can be derived. One possible embodiment of the present invention is disclosed herein. It is possible to replace the maximization of expectation estimation process with a maximum likelihood estimation process 10 and obtain similar results. In a similar manner there are numerous ways to perform spectral power estimation 18 and achieving similar results.

The expectation of the log likelihood Q right arrow over is defined in terms of the expected value E the known data vector right arrow over y the variable z that identifies the mixture element the parameter vector right arrow over and the joint probability of the data and the mixture element p right arrow over y z right arrow over p right arrow over y z right arrow over P z right arrow over . The equations follow a similar notation as in 17 .

The present invention utilizes a novel process to model spectral signals with a specialized probability density function. The equivalence between statistical terms and frequency domain terms was previously stated but more specifically a mixture is a multimodal pdf. A mixture element is an element of the multimodal probability density function pdf . A sub band is a suboptimal solution produced by the modified EM algorithm Signal Mixture Models Algorithm . It is equivalent to mixture element but in the context of signals. It identifies a portion of the spectrum that contains energy from a signal. A band is a combination adjacent sub bands and represents the actual signals in the spectrum. There is a decision process used to combine sub bands . The ultimate goal is to identify each band in terms of the center frequency and bandwidth.

The process Eq. 16 provides simplification over other densities when using the log likelihood expression. The process allows detecting and estimating the center frequency and bandwidth.

Referring to a flow diagram depicting the process steps that may be coded in software to run on a computer or hardware the maximum number of detectable mixture elements is controlled by overestimating the number of mixture elements. For the embodiment presented herein the mixture elements equals one third of the number of frequency bins. The mixtures elements that do not converge to a signal profile would vanish and become trivial solutions. Those mixture elements that converge to a non trivial solution would produce whole bands or sub bands overlapping or adjacent bands . These bands need to be reconstructed by implementing post processing rules after achieving convergence.

The performance of search process usually depends on the initial estimate. To accelerate the convergence the method allocates initial mixture uniformly distributed mixture elements across the entire spectrum .

The process of maximizing the expectation requires finding the roots of its derivative with respect to all the parameters of the model. The set of equations can be expressed in terms of a new and novel model 

After the initialization the process iterates several times until convergence is reached. The one embodiment of the present invention required 25 iterations see to form the spectral profile.

To recap the process first calculates an initial expectation estimate . The next step is to calculate the updated parameters that maximize the expectation . At the completion of these two steps the process applies rules to improve convergence . The rules control the value of the bandwidth of each mixture. One rule prevents the bandwidth of a mixture from taking small values. This feature is needed for detecting tone signals. Without this rule the bandwidth may approach to zero and cause convergence problems Eq. 16 . A second rule keeps one of the mixture elements with a wide bandwidth. This mixture is forced to converge to the noise floor of the broad spectrum. The feature is useful for estimating the noise in the receiver and can be used later for the estimation of the signal to noise ratio as depicted in .

Rules for recombining channels can be developed using thresholds on predefined quantities. An upper and lower frequency is defined for each sub band. Lower cut off frequency of the mixture i is 2 Eq. 25 The higher cut off frequency of the mixture i is 2 Eq. 26 Also a new feature is defined. The average amplitude level of the mixture i is Eq. 27 The last feature allows prioritizing the search by processing the signals that have the higher amplitude.

The rules can be divided in two categories. One set of rules determines whether the sub band falls inside another sub band. A second rule will determine if two adjacent sub bands are candidates for recombination. The rules assist in grouping the sub bands that belong to a single signal in individual arrays. Once the sub bands are grouped they can be sent to a second algorithm that reconstructs the signal.

The reconstruction of the signal profile is done by reconstructing the signal based on the individual mixture elements sub bands within a group.

Energy noise and SNR can be estimated once bandwidth and center frequency estimates have been produced by the algorithm. mix Eq. 31 The noise estimate is calculated in a similar manner by processing an area where no signals are found. An alternative procedure is to estimate a wideband mixture element as illustrated in . Tests Results

Referring to depicts an actual signal spectrum reconstructed by the present invention. The present invention has been tested using MPSK MFSK and tone signals with different frequency allocations and different noise levels. The signals were sampled at 16 kHz and each signal contains at least 400 cycles. The analysis filter used 256 channels. The signals were processed with a DCT DST filter bank to generate in phase and quadrature channels. The invention was able to identify the bands of interest and reconstruct the individual signals. The use of nearly perfect reconstruction filters allows us to resample and downconvert the signals by adding or shifting channels. The frequency and bandwidth estimates were verified by visual inspection and analysis. The center frequencies and bandwidths were in agreement with the original parameters. The estimated error of the center frequency and bandwidth is inversely proportional to the number of channels in the filter banks.

Referring to depicts actual results of the present invention sorted by the normalized energy density. The four most significant signals are shown below. These results correspond to the reconstructed signal spectrum in .

While the present invention has been described in reference to specific embodiments in light of the foregoing it should be understood that all matter contained in the above description or shown in the accompanying drawings is intended to be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense and that various modifications and variations of the invention may be constructed without departing from the scope of the invention defined by the following claims. Thus other possible variations and modifications should be appreciated.

