---

title: Passage obstruction for improved inlet coolant filling
abstract: A cooled gas turbine engine component includes a cooling passage, one or more cooling inlet apertures in flow communication with a coolant supply and a first end of the cooling passage, and a coolant flow obstruction inside the cooling passage between the one or more cooling inlet apertures and a second end of the cooling passage and configured to direct a portion of coolant from the one or more cooling inlet apertures toward the first end of the cooling passage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08177492&OS=08177492&RS=08177492
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08177492
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080304
---
This invention was made with Government support under N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the United States Air Force. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to gas turbine engines. In particular the present invention relates to cooled components for gas turbine engines.

A gas turbine engine commonly includes a fan a compressor a combustor a turbine and an exhaust nozzle. During engine operation working medium gases for example air are drawn into and compressed in the compressor. The compressed air is channeled to the combustor where fuel is added to the air and the air fuel mixture is ignited. The products of combustion are discharged to the turbine section which extracts work from these products to produce useful thrust to power for example an aircraft in flight.

The compressor and turbine commonly include alternating stages of rotor blades and stator vanes. Compressor and turbine rotors include stationary annular fluid seals surrounding the blades and acting to contain and direct the flow of working medium fluid through successive stages. Compressor and turbine rotor seals sometimes referred to as outer air seals commonly include arcuate seal segments circumferentially arranged to form a ring about the engine axis radially outward of the blades. The outer air seal including the ring of arcuate segments is attached to the engine case by for example one or more support rings.

The operating temperatures of some engine stages such as in the high pressure turbine stages may exceed the material limits of the seal segments and therefore necessitate cooling the segments by using for example compressor bleed air directed to the segment through for example the support rings. Cooled seal segments may include cooling features such as film cooling holes internal cooling passages and impingement cooling plates. Increasing the effectiveness of internal cooling passages is a common challenge in rotor seal design. Prior rotor seals have struggled to increase the filling of internal cooling passages with cooling fluid flow. In particular prior art seals have exhibited inadequate filling toward the cooling passage end walls adjacent the axial inter segment surfaces where adjacent seal segments adjoin.

A cooled gas turbine engine component includes a cooling passage one or more cooling inlet apertures in flow communication with a coolant supply and a first end of the cooling passage and a coolant flow obstruction inside the cooling passage between the cooling inlet apertures and a second end of the cooling passage and configured to direct a portion of coolant from the cooling inlet apertures toward the first end of the cooling passage.

During engine operation blades rotate about engine axis and seal acts to contain and direct working medium fluid around blades . Blades rotate in close proximity with rotor seal to minimize the amount of working medium fluid that escapes the primary flow path into the space between the tip of blades and seal . In some cases the tips of blades may contact seal . Each of seal segments may therefore include rub strip made from an abradable material such as a metallic honeycomb strip or a ceramic abradable material capable of withstanding contact with blades . Because the operating temperatures of the gas turbine rotor may exceed the material limits of seal segments seal segments may include cooling features such as cooling passages . Cooling passages may be configured to receive cooling fluid such as compressor bleed air to cool seal segment .

During engine operation each of seal segments may be cooled using for example compressor bleed air directed to seal segment through supports . Some of compressor bleed air may enter each of cooling passages through cooling inlet aperture flow through cooling passage and exit through cooling exit aperture to cool axial inter segment surfaces and of adjacent seal segments . Prior rotor seals have struggled to increase the filling of internal cooling passages with cooling fluid flow. In particular prior seals have exhibited inadequate filling toward the cooling passage end wall adjacent inter segment surface and and the cooling inlet aperture. Inter segment surfaces and are axial surfaces of seal segment abutting an adjacent seal segment. The regions of the seal segment adjacent inter segment surface and may experience increased thermal loads because there is a tendency for the inter segment junction between adjoining seal segments to ingest hot working medium gas as the pressure side of the blades pass the junction during engine operation.

In order to improve cooling fluid filling of internal cooling passages embodiments of the present invention employ coolant flow obstructions to redirect fluid flow to previously inadequately filled regions of the cooling passages. In cooling passage includes coolant flow obstruction . Obstruction is located between inlet aperture and exit aperture at the second end of cooling passage . In the embodiment shown in obstruction includes a generally rectangular shape. Obstruction may act to redirect and thereby improve cooling fluid flow inside cooling passage in for example the region between inlet aperture and the first end of cooling passage adjacent inlet aperture . Cooling passage may also include resupply aperture which aperture may act to increase fluid flow and thereby cooling fluid filing in regions downstream of obstruction from inlet aperture .

The size and shape of obstruction shown in may vary in different embodiments of the present invention. are detailed axial section views of seal segment including cooling passage with coolant flow obstructions of varying heights. In the embodiment of cooling passage includes obstruction that extends only partially into cooling passage . In the embodiment of obstruction extends across cooling passage .

Embodiments of the present invention have several advantages over prior designs. Cooled rotor seals according to the present invention increase the effectiveness of cooling passages in seal segments by employing a coolant flow obstruction to redirect cooling fluid flow and thereby increase cooling fluid filling in previously inadequately filled regions of the seal segment. Additionally embodiments of the present invention may include a cooling resupply aperture configured to increase cooling fluid filling in the cooling passage downstream of the coolant flow obstruction. Cooling fluid filling in embodiments of the present invention is particularly increased toward the cooling passage end wall adjacent the inter segment surface which surface is susceptible to high thermal loads from hot working medium gas ingested into the junction between adjacent seal segments. Increased cooling in rotor seals according to the present invention reduces the risk of material failures due to thermo mechanical stress on the seals and generally increases engine operating efficiency both of which reduce costs associated with operating and maintaining the engine.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

