---

title: Atom transfer dispersion polymerization
abstract: The present disclosure describes a two-step batch dispersion polymerization process for the preparation of substantially uniformed-sized functional (co)polymer particles. The first step of the process includes polymerizing at least one first radically (co)polymerizable monomer by a free radical polymerization process to form a (co)polymer in a stable colloidal dispersion and the second step includes polymerizing the at first radically (co)polymerizable monomer or an additional radically (co)polymerizable monomer in the stable colloidal dispersion by a living/controlled radical (co)polymerization process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08252880&OS=08252880&RS=08252880
owner: Carnegie Mellon University
number: 08252880
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080523
---
This application is a nationalization of PCT International Application No. PCT US2008 064710 having an international filing date of May 23 2008 which claims the priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 931 472 filed May 23 2007 the disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by this reference.

Financial support was provided by the NSF through grants CHE 04 05627 and 05 49353. Therefore the Government of the United States has certain rights in this invention.

The scope of a living controlled radical polymerization such as an atom transfer radical polymerization ATRP has been expanded to allow preparation of uniform sized polymer beads with diameters between 0.1 15 m by defining conditions for an Atom Transfer Dispersion Polymerization ATDP . A successful ATDP was accomplished by using a two stage polymerization technique in which the first stage involves a standard free radical polymerization and the second a living controlled radical polymerization. Controlled addition of additional monomer a second monomer or a multifunctional monomer allows preparation of uniform size functional segmented and or crosslinked particles. Furthermore use of a controlled living radical polymerization allows retention of functionality suitable for post polymerization modification of accessible particle surfaces.

Polymer beads with substantially uniform sized diameters between 0.5 10 m are finding an ever increasing number of applications in coatings electronics microelectronics biomedical and information technology. Particle size control and narrow size distribution are key parameters for most of these applications. Several routes have been used to synthesize mono disperse polymeric particles. One method is seeded suspension polymerization which uses uniform particles as seeds that are swollen with monomers prior to conducting polymerization. The other method is dispersion polymerization which is generally recognized as a type of precipitation polymerization conducted in the presence of a suitable polymeric stabilizer that is soluble in the reaction medium. Under favorable circumstances dispersion polymerization in a batch step process results in the preparation of polymeric particles often mono disperse particles of 0.1 15 m in diameter.

Dispersion polymerization was initially developed employing a hydrocarbon medium in the 1970 s see Barrett K. E. J. Thomas H. R. 1969 7 2621 however it was an extension of the procedure to encompass polar solvents such as ethanol or methanol that greatly expanded the utility of this polymerization procedure see Tseng C. M. Lu Y. Y. El Aasser M. S. Vanderhoff 1986 24 2995 . El Asser later extended the procedure to living anionic dispersion polymerization in hydrocarbon solvents see El Aasser M. S. et. al. 1996 34 2633 .

A dispersion polymerization is defined as a type of precipitation polymerization in which the monomer and all other reactants including polymeric stabilizers are initially soluble in the reaction medium but the polymer is insoluble or substantially insoluble. Therefore a dispersion polymerization starts as a homogeneous solution polymerization but as polymer or oligomer chains grow in size they eventually reach a molecular weight higher than a certain critical value and precipitate from solution and aggregate to form colloidally unstable precursor particles. These particles coalesce and adsorb stabilizers from the reaction medium onto their surface until they become a colloidally stable dispersion of micelles in the reaction medium. At this point the total number of particles in the system is fixed and the nucleation stage ceases. Subsequent polymerization also termed the particle growth stage occurs predominantly inside the swollen nuclei or micelles but also in the reaction medium. However the newly formed polymers should not form additional nuclei but should be captured by existing particles see Kawaguchi S. Ito K. 2005 175 299 .

The reaction is easy to carry out lends itself to scale up and yields particles with a very narrow and uniform particle size.

The present disclosure provides for a process for preparing substantially uniform sized functional co polymer particles which utilizes a free radical polymerization process followed by a living or controlled radical polymerization process.

In one embodiment the present disclosure provides a process for preparing substantially uniform sized functional co polymer particles. The process comprises polymerizing at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s by a free radical co polymerization process to form a co polymer in a reaction medium comprising a stabilizer and a non aqueous polar solvent in which the co polymer is substantially insoluble forming a stable colloidal dispersion comprising the co polymer dispersed in substantially uniform sized micelles in the reaction medium adding precursors for a controlled radical co polymerization system and polymerizing the remaining first radically co polymerizable monomer s by a controlled radical co polymerization process to form substantially uniform sized functional co polymer particles. In certain embodiments the process may further comprising adding at least one additional radically co polymerizable monomer s after forming the stable colloidal dispersion.

According to other embodiments the present disclosure provides for a continuous two step batch dispersion polymerization process for the preparation of substantially uniform sized functional polymer particles. The process comprises a first step comprising polymerizing at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s by a free radical co polymerization process to form a co polymer in a stable colloidal dispersion and a second step comprising polymerizing the at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s or an additional radically co polymerizable monomer s in the stable colloidal dispersion by a controlled radical co polymerization process to form substantially uniform sized functional co polymer particles.

In dispersion polymerization processes it has been widely accepted that the key issue for preparation of uniformly sized colloidal particles is a short nucleation stage see LaMer V. K. Dinegar R. H. 1950 72 4847 . The particle number and particle number distribution are determined during the nucleation stage and no secondary particles or coagulum should be formed during the particle growth stage. A prolonged nucleation stage usually results in a broad particle size distribution.

Use of Living or Controlled Radical Polymerization CRP processes has not been successfully applied to a dispersion type polymerization to form substantially uniform sized functional co polymer particles. As used herein the term substantially uniform sized when used with reference to the size of the co polymer particles means that the co polymer particles have a size that varies by less than 10 in certain embodiments less than 5 and in specific embodiments less than 3 when the diameters of more than 100 particles are measured. However in a CRP because all chains grow at the same rate the time required for the preparation of a polymer with a molecular weight above the critical molecular weight of the reaction medium i.e. the weight were the dispersion forms is significantly longer than that in a FRP. Thus this slower controlled radical polymerization process directly influences most likely extends the nucleation stage in a dispersion polymerization such that non uniform particles are formed.

Furthermore the nucleation stage in dispersion polymerization is very sensitive to variations in reaction components or conditions. It has been found that incorporation of functional monomers Yang W. Yang D. Hu J. Wang C. Fu S. 2001 39 555 or crosslinking agents Song J. S. Tronc F. Winnik M. A. 2004 126 6562 Song J. S. Winnik M. A. 2005 38 8300 in a standard free radical dispersion polymerization is much more difficult than that in other heterogeneous polymerizations such as emulsion polymerization.

In recent years several living controlled radical polymerization CRP techniques which encompass co polymerization of a wide range of monomers in a spectrum of reaction media have been developed. The development of a living controlled radical dispersion polymerization would be a way to expand both the design and scope of functional polymer colloids. Combining dispersion polymerization and CRP offers several potential benefits in addition to the preparation of uniform micron sized particles. For example particles prepared by CRP techniques contain polymers with pre determined chain end functionality therefore they are suitable materials for in situ or for post polymerization modification of the particles forming materials that could be tailored for a spectrum of applications.

Since the particles obtained from a CRP can be designed to contain tele functional lower molecular weight polymers that can be swollen by solvents or additional monomers they are ideal materials for use as seeds for a seeded polymerization or for the preparation of higher molecular weight materials or segmented copolymer particles. Therefore in principle when CRP is applied to a dispersion polymerization all chains are initiated quickly and grow simultaneously therefore uniform particle growth and good control over particle size would be anticipated from a living controlled dispersion polymerization.

However in previous efforts to apply CRP techniques to dispersion polymerization problems were encountered. For example when using nitroxide mediated polymerization NMP Hoelderle M. Baumert M. Muelhaupt R. 1997 30 3420 Gabaston L. I. Jackson R. A. Armes S. P. 1998 31 2883 degenerative transfer DT polymerization Song J. S. Winnik M. A. 2006 39 8318 8325 and reversible addition fragmentation transfer RAFT polymerization Shim S. E. Jung H. Lee H. Biswas J. Choe S. 2003 44 5563 as the CRP processes polymers with controlled molecular weight and sufficient chain end functionality have generally been obtained however particle size distribution was broad.

Furthermore it was discovered that particle size uniformity as well as the colloidal stability declined as more radical control regulators e.g. 2 2 6 6 tetramethylpiperidine 1 oxyl TEMPO DT or RAFT agents were added to the system. Particle size distribution was also broad in a recent PCT patent application WO 2008 009997 See FIG. 1 disclosing dispersion polymerization employing a RAFT agent even though a narrow particle size was claimed.

Therefore there is a need for a controlled radical polymerization process that can prepare uniform sized polymer beads with particle size control and narrow size distribution that further allows retention of functionality suitable for post polymerization modification of the particle surface.

This need is met with the disclosed adaptation of atom transfer radical polymerization ATRP to a dispersion polymerization system which involves a continuous two step batch polymerization process wherein the first step comprises conducting a standard free radical polymerization of radically co polymerizable monomer s and the second step comprises an ATRP process.

As noted above addition of control agents for a controlled polymerization process affects the nucleation process. We can confirm the sensitivity of the nucleation process to reaction components based on our initial attempts to combine atom transfer radical polymerization ATRP and dispersion polymerization. Mono disperse particles could not be achieved in a single batch mode polymerization.

ATRP has been described in a series of patents and patent applications with Matyjaszewski as co inventor and Carnegie Mellon University as assignee including U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 763 548 5 807 937 5 789 487 5 945 491 6 111 022 6 121 371 6 124 411 6 162 882 6 407 187 6 512 060 6 538 091 6 541 580 6 624 262 6 624 263 6 627 314 6 790 919 6 759 491 6 887 962 7 019 082 7 056 455 7 064 166 7 125 938 7 157 530 and 7 332 550 and U.S. and International PCT patent application Ser. Nos. 09 534 827 09 972 056 10 034 908 10 269 556 10 289 545 10 638 584 10 860 807 10 684 137 10 781 061 10 992 249 11 059 217 10 887 029 11 430 216 10 548 354 11 593 185 PCT US05 07264 PCT US05 07265 and PCT US06 33792 all of which are herein incorporated by reference for example to define which monomers can be co polymerized in an ATRP process and which ligands should be selected to provide stable active transition metal complexes in various media. ATRP has also been discussed in numerous publications and reviewed in several book chapters see 1998 6852000 7682001 101 2921 29902003 8542006 944 the disclosures of which are incorporated in their entirety by reference herein. Within these published articles and book chapters similar polymerization systems employing of forming the four essential components required for an ATRP Scheme 1 may be referred to by different names such as transition metal mediated polymerization or atom transfer polymerization but the processes are similar and referred to herein as ATRP .

Any patent publication or other disclosure material in whole or in part that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent that the incorporated material does not conflict with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such and to the extent necessary the disclosure as set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any material or portion thereof that is said to be incorporated by reference herein but which conflicts with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.

It should be understood that any numerical range recited herein is intended to include all sub ranges subsumed therein. For example a range of 1 to 10 is intended to include all sub ranges between and including the recited minimum value of 1 and the recited maximum value of 10 that is having a minimum value equal to or greater than 1 and a maximum value of less than or equal to 10.

When a normal ATRP process was used for a dispersion polymerization i.e. when Cu I species were added as the activators nucleation turbidity of the reaction system was observed 15 minutes after injection of ATRP initiators. This is visibly later than that in a conventional radical dispersion polymerization in which nucleation occurred after 5 min. under the similar reaction conditions.

When a reverse ATRP was used i.e. ATRP deactivators species Cu II were added together with a conventional radical initiator such as AIBN the observed nucleation was postponed even more.

The SEM images of polystyrene particles prepared in single step dispersion polymerizations using free radical polymerization FRP normal ATRP and reverse ATRP are shown in . Comparing with B and C it is clear that particle size distribution broadened to a significant degree with the involvement of the components of an ATRP process in the reaction media regardless of using direct or reverse ATRP initiation activation. The presence of particles with a broad distribution of particle size i.e. small and exceptionally large particles indicates that both an extended initial nucleation stage and secondary nucleation i.e. nuclei formed after the first nucleation stage had occurred.

It is believed that in a CRP because all chains grow at the same rate the time required for the preparation a polymer with a molecular weight above the critical precipitating molecular weight is significantly longer than that of a standard FRP where high molecular weight polymer is formed almost immediately. This slower controlled polymerization process directly influences most likely extends the nucleation stage in a dispersion polymerization since the slow growing oligo polymeric species take a longer time to attain a molecular weight above the critical value.

A successful dispersion polymerization requires that one shorten the nucleation stage in order to provide mono disperse polymeric particles. It was determined that an ATRP system such as a reverse ATRP system could be modified to a two step process to allow an uncontrolled free radical polymerization to occur to the extent required to seed the system i.e. the nucleation step prior to adding the reagents required for a controlled ATRP see Scheme 2 . The resulting two step atom transfer dispersion polymerization provides substantially uniform sized functional co polymer particles having well defined degree of polymerization not previously accessible by FRP or CRP dispersion polymerization processes.

One difference between the initiation systems described in the present disclosure from that of a classic reverse ATRP is that the deactivator the transition metal complex in its higher oxidation state is added to the reaction at a certain time 45 min after the FRP polymerization was initiated. In this way the first stage of the polymerization involves a standard FRP forming high molecular weight polymer which should result in a short and clean nucleation stage and improved uniformity in the size of the particles. In certain embodiments the FRP polymerization for the nucleation step is allowed to proceed to less than 10 polymerization. In other embodiments polymerization conversion after the nucleation period is complete in between 1 and 5 and continuing the polymerization to higher conversions leads to more stable particles.

The present disclosure describes several different features and aspects of the various exemplary embodiments provided herein. It is understood however that the present disclosure embraces numerous alternative embodiments which may be accomplished by combining any of the different features aspects and embodiments described herein in any combination that one of ordinary skill in the art would find useful.

In the examples discussed below conversion in the first stage was less than 10 in order to ensure that the majority of the polymer chains retained an active chain end. Indeed in the examples conversion of initially added monomers to polymer by FRP during nucleation was actually below 3 when the copper complex was added to initiate the reverse ATRP reaction. In this manner the second stage should be an ATRP during which time the polymers produced should exhibit the characteristics of a living controlled polymerization process i.e. pre determinable molecular weight narrow polydispersity and retention of chain end functionality

This novel in situ continuous batch two stage reverse ATRP strategy efficiently resolved the problem of particle size uniformity. As seen in the particles formed in such a procedure had very narrow size distribution. In addition comparing and it can be seen that the particles prepared from free radical dispersion polymerization and the new continuous two step atom transfer radical dispersion polymerization ATDP have very similar particle size 1.50 0.05 nm and 1.54 0.05 nm respectively . While not intending to be limited by any interpretation this can be considered as proof that the nucleation stage was complete before addition of ATRP deactivators and the in situ formation of the dormant polymer chains and the lower oxidation state transition metal activator complex. According to this embodiment the initiation system was still a reverse ATRP. A critical difference between the initiation systems applied and demonstrated for the first time in this research from that of a classic reverse ATRP is that the deactivator is added to the reaction at a certain time after the polymerization was initiated by a free radical initiator and after the nucleation procedure was complete.

Additional CRP initiation procedures developed for ATRP at Carnegie Mellon University that also start with the oxidatively stable higher oxidation state catalyst complex namely simultaneous reverse and normal initiation ATRP SR NI ATRP see U.S. Pat. No. 6 759 491 and initiator for continuous activator regeneration ICAR ATRP see PCT Application No. PCT US06 33792 would also work since in both these advanced procedures a standard free radical initiator is employed as part of the activation or reactivation procedure. These two procedures employ lower concentrations of the transition metal catalyst than a standard reverse ATRP and allow addition of an ATRP macro initiator to control the topology of the formed co polymer.

These procedures were also able to be modified to take into account the need to seed the dispersion polymerization prior to addition of the control agents. During the first stage the polymerization only involved a standard FRP forming a small fraction of high molecular weight polymer which should result in a short and clean nucleation stage and improved uniformity in the size of the particles. After the nucleation stage is over the precursors for the CRP for example the ATRP deactivators i.e. Cu II species and ATRP macro initiators are added to the polymerization. Therefore the second stage should be a well controlled ATRP process during which time the polymers produced should exhibit all the characteristics of a living and controlled polymerization process. The term macro initiators indicates that the added ATRP initiators comprise either a low molecular weight initiator species or a higher molecular weight macroinitiator species and that the added macro initiator can comprise one or more initiating atoms or groups. Indeed since the macroinitiators only participate in the ATRP stage of the polymerization they can optionally be added to the first stage and the catalyst complex added alone in the second stage to be activated and initiate the second controlled polymerization. In other embodiments the ATRP macro initiators may be formed in situ by reaction of a radical species with the ATRP catalyst involving transfer of the radically transferable atom or group from the transition metal catalyst to the radical.

The rate of an ATDP can be considerably slower than a conventional radical dispersion polymerization because of the addition and retention of ATRP deactivators during the second stage. For example in the ATDP s reported herein the molecular weight of the polymers formed in the controlled polymerization steadily shifted towards higher value demonstrating the retention of active chain end functionality during the polymerization. The weight fraction of polymers formed during the first stage FRP nucleation process became insignificant in the final polymer particles as evidenced by the inconsequential fraction of the FRP polymer peak in the final GPC trace see . The GPC trace of the final polymer formed during the reverse ATDP had tailing towards the low MW area which can be attributed to the slow decomposition of AIBN continuously forming new chains. The obtained polymer particles comprise polymers having a well defined molecular weight 21 400 g mol and relatively narrow polydispersity M M 1.6 characteristic of a CRP compared with M M 4 5 from conventional dispersion polymerization. Such tailing would be reduced in SR NI ATDP and ICAR ATDP procedures and products with narrow or controlled PDI would be prepared since lower concentrations of free radical initiator are required.

In the initial standard reverse ATDP the theoretical number average molecular weight M was calculated based on the equation 

A lower concentration of free radical initiator should assist in attaining higher initiation efficiency as indicated by the experiment targeting a higher degree of polymerization DP .

In one embodiment of the present disclosure this provides a procedure for preparation of larger particles with higher controllable molecular weight. In the initial stage conditions are selected to produce a lower DP then once stable particles are formed and the control agents added a second third or even later a fourth aliquot of monomer is added to increase DP. Particle size can also be modified by selecting a free radical initiator that decomposes at a faster or slower rate at a given temperature.

Polymer particles with higher fractions of functional polymer chains arising from added ATRP initiator can be attained using SR NI or ICAR. Indeed a modified activator regeneration by electron transfer ATRP ARGET ATRP procedure can also be applied. In this embodiment the amount and composition of the free radical initiator is selected to allow for the preparation of stable particles in a rapid nucleation procedure but allow subsequent reactivation of the higher oxidation state ATRP catalyst complex by action of a reducing agent see PCT US06 33792 .

In a further embodiment of the present disclosure this sequential addition of monomers can be employed to prepare block copolymers or blocky gradient copolymers if some of the first monomer is present when the second monomer is added see Min K. et al. Development of an ab Initio Emulsion Atom Transfer Radical Polymerization From Microemulsion to Emulsion. . 2006 128 10521 10526 and PCT Int. Appl. WO 2007 025086 for a discussion of emulsion ATRP processes for forming block blocky gradient copolymers the disclosures of which are incorporated in their entirety by reference herein .

As noted in the background section the preparation of uniform crosslinked particles by dispersion polymerization is an additional significant challenge because of the sensitivity of the nucleation stage to the presence of crosslinking agents. Song and Winnik et al. reported some success using the two stage technique to incorporate crosslinking agents into polystyrene particles in a conventional free radical dispersion polymerization 2005 38 8300 . However the report pointed out that when DVB was used as the crosslinking agent the rapid consumption of DVB into the crosslinked system resulted in a low swelling ability of the growing particles nuclei with monomers and therefore irregular shaped particles. Furthermore particle coagulation was observed when the concentration of DVB is higher than a critical value even when using the two stage technique. A dispersion polymerization in the presence of 1 wt DVB resulted in severe coagulation after 2 3 hours. This phenomenon was also observed in our study see Table 2 run 2 .

In order to overcome this limitation we determined that it is advantageous to add fractions of the target amount of DVB multiple times. This novel stepwise addition of the comonomer responsible for crosslinking the particle resolved these stability problems in the disclosed CRP. In fact using a periodic introduction of crosslinking agent can be beneficial for incorporation of higher concentrations of crosslinking agents into the CRP crosslinked system produced by the two stage ATDP process. Because the overall lifetime of a growing polymer chain in a CRP is significantly longer than in a standard free radical polymerization due to repetitive activation deactivation cycles the polymer chains have more time to relax during their dormant period resulting in the synthesis of a more uniform crosslinked structure. Thus particles with a uniform crosslinked structure should swell more efficiently in the monomer solvent system and therefore they should have less stability problems. Furthermore since the uniform crosslinking network can be swollen by added monomers subsequent multiple additions of monomers can increase the particle dimensions and or the porosity and adsorption properties of the uniform crosslinked particle. Indeed additional monomers or crosslinkers can be added in a continuous manner to the reaction.

In one embodiment of the invention exemplifying crosslinked particles are successfully prepared by using a two stage ATDP in which 1 wt of the crosslinking agent was added together with the second fraction of monomers and solvents. The particles remained stable after 24 hours with monomer conversion 95 . By varying the overall ratio of added formed ATRP initiators to crosslinking agents i.e. I to XL it is possible to prepare particles comprising polymers with structures that vary in architecture from soluble branched structures to densely crosslinked networks see PCT Application PCT US07 21684 for a discussion of the transition between a soluble branched structure and crosslinked networks .

It is worth noting that polystyrene particles could only be clearly observed by SEM when the monomer conversion was higher than 50 60 . At low conversion the particles are so swollen with monomer and solvent that they form a film on the glass substrate and very soft poorly defined SEM image would be anticipated. However as shows even at the low monomer conversion of 26 the particles targeting a crosslinked structure were already clearly imaged indicating that divinylbenzene DVB had been incorporated into the particles. The surface morphology of the particles was rather smooth at low monomer conversion but became noticeably rougher when the conversion was higher which can be clearly seen at higher magnification in . Nevertheless the particles remained spherical and mono disperse through the end of polymerization. The crosslinked particles can be easily filtered from the solvent and re dispersed in a second medium.

One advantage of carrying out ATRP for the preparation of crosslinked particles is that the retained chain end functionalities that can be directly used for further chain extension and modification of the particle or particle surface. When using the particles from conventional dispersion polymerization processes the initiators have to be further introduced and tethered to the accessible surfaces. This step can be avoided when using co polymer particles prepared directly by ATRP. It was envisioned that a sufficient number of accessible initiator functionalities should be available to allow the preparation of tethered copolymer chains providing functional surfaces in a porous particle or a functional tethered shell on a solid particle surface.

This embodiment of the process is exemplified by employing the first formed polystyrene particles as macroinitiators for chain extension with 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate HEMA . Halide exchange technique was applied in this study considering the rate of cross propagation from styryl radicals to methacrylate monomers. After the grafting from polymerization of HEMA the particles can be dispersed in methanol which indicates that the surface of the particles have been modified by successfully chain extending accessible initiating functionality with poly HEMA since bare polystyrene particles cannot be dispersed in methanol. It can be seen from the SEM images that the surface of the modified polystyrene particles became smoother after p HEMA modification.

If the first formed crosslinked particles have been prepared in the presence of porogens to form crosslinked particles suitable for chromatographic applications then every accessible surface would have been modified in the grafting from co polymerization.

Therefore one embodiment of the invention an atom transfer radical dispersion polymerization is exemplified by the polymerization of styrene in ethanol which was successfully carried out using a continuous two stage polymerization technique in which the first stage involves a standard FRP and the second stage a reverse ATRP. Polystyrene particles with particle size of 1.5 2.5 m were obtained. The particles prepared using the two stage ATDP displayed narrow particle size distribution contained polymers with molecular weight 20 000 g mol and relatively narrow less than 2.0 polydispersity M M 1.4 1.8 compared with M M 4 5 from conventional dispersion polymerization .

This novel ATDP technique also facilitated the preparation of uniform crosslinked particles wherein a crosslinkable monomer such as a divinyl crosslinking agent is added during the second or even in a third stage of the controlled polymerization process forming uniform particles. As a consequence of the involvement of ATRP and the option of addition of the crosslinking agent at the same time as the active components of the ATRP process or even periodic addition of the crosslinking agent as the reaction progressed the ATDP process provides controlled incorporation of the crosslinking agent to form substantially uniform sized crosslinked particles.

In addition these crosslinked particles were successfully chain extended with a second functional monomer exemplified herein by HEMA indicating well retained accessible chain end functionality on the accessible surface of the particles for further modification of particle surfaces thereby forming a core shell structure allowing uniform dispersion of the first formed particles in polar solvents such as water and methanol thereby exemplifying that the monomer s selected for the shell surface polymerization can be selected to incorporate a desired functionality into the uniform particle.

Polymer particles of dimensions obtained from this process are finding an increasing number of applications in coatings electronics microelectronics biomedical and information technology. Particle size control and narrow size distribution are key parameters for most of these applications.

According to one embodiment the present disclosure provides a process for preparing substantially uniform sized functional co polymer particles. The process comprises polymerizing at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s by a free radical co polymerization process to form a co polymer in a reaction medium comprising a stabilizer and a non aqueous polar solvent in which the co polymer is substantially insoluble forming a stable colloidal dispersion comprising the co polymer dispersed in substantially uniform sized micelles in the reaction medium adding precursors for a controlled radical co polymerization system and polymerizing the remaining first radically co polymerizable monomer s by a controlled radical co polymerization process to form substantially uniform sized functional co polymer particles.

As described herein polymerizing the at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s by a free radical co polymerization process to form a co polymer occurs in a first step of the ATDP process described herein. During this nucleation step the formed co polymer is substantially insoluble in the non aqueous polar solvent and in the presence of stabilizers and optionally one or more co stabilizer forms a stable colloidal dispersion comprising the co polymer dispersed in substantially uniform sized micelles in the reaction medium. Suitable stabilizers and co stabilizers include surfactants such as polymeric surfactants nonionic surfactants anionic surfactants cationic surfactants such as but not limited to poly N vinylpyrrolidone PVP and the TRITON line of surfactants.

In certain embodiments polymerizing the at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s by a free radical co polymerization process occurs in a system initially comprising the stabilizer a free radical initiator the at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s a non aqueous polar solvent and optionally the co stabilizer. According to certain embodiments the initial particle size which may be determined by the size of the micelle formed during the nucleation is controlled by an initial ratio of the free radical initiator to the concentration of the at least one radically co polymerizable monomer s . Suitable free radical initiators include free radical initiators commonly used to initiate free radical polymerization reactions such as but not limited to peroxides and 2 2 azobisisobutyronitrile AIBN . Suitable free radical co polymerizable monomers include those commonly used in FRP type processes and known to those skilled in the art. Suitable non aqueous polar solvents include for example but are not limited to alcohols such as methanol ethanol propanol and butanol.

In other specific embodiments the solvent may additionally comprise a porogen. According to these embodiments the resulting substantially uniform sized functional co polymer particles may be porous particles.

In certain embodiments the FRP nucleation process comprises initiating the polymerization in the presence of all of the at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s whereas in other embodiments only a portion of the at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s are present in the solution when the FRP is initiated. For example in specific embodiments less than 10 of the at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s may be polymerized by the FRP. In other embodiments from 1 to 5 of the at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s may be polymerized by the FRP during the first step. As will be understood by one having skill in the art reading on the present disclosure the extent of the FRP polymerization process may be determined by tailoring the reactivity of the FRP system or by the timing of the adding of the precursors for the controlled radical co polymerization system. For example the precursors of the CRP may be added after free radical polymerization of less than 10 of the at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s or after free radical polymerization of from 1 to 5 of the at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s .

According to certain embodiments the processes of the present disclosures may further comprise adding at least one additional radically co polymerizable monomer s to the reaction after forming the stable colloidal dispersion and or after adding the precursors for the controlled radical co polymerization. In these embodiments the additional monomer s may migrate to the micelles and participate in the ATRP step of the two stage process. In certain embodiment the least one additional radically co polymerizable monomer s may be the same as the at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s . In these embodiments the additional monomers may be incorporated into a homopolymer structure. In other embodiments the least one additional radically co polymerizable monomer s may be the different from the at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s . In these embodiments the resulting copolymers may be gradient block or blocky gradient copolymers. For example in certain embodiments adding the additional radically co polymerizable monomers may comprise one of adding the additional radically co polymerizable monomer s in a continuous manner and adding the additional radically co polymerizable monomer s in multiple addition stages.

Further in other embodiments the process may further comprise adding one or more additional amounts of a radically co polymerizable monomer s which may be the same or different from the at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s and or the at least one additional radically co polymerizable co monomer s to the process to continue the CRP process after polymerizing the additional radically co polymerizable monomer s by the CRP process. Thus a multistage process may result in copolymers with well defined block structure MW and degree of polymerization may be synthesized by the disclosed ATDP process. These embodiments take advantage of the capability of ATRP processes to control copolymer structure by selection of monomer structure. For example in one embodiment adding the one or more additional amounts of a radically co polymerizable monomer s may increase the degree of polymerization of the polymers in the particles by continuing the polymerization process. In certain embodiments this allows control of the particle size diameter resulting in final particles with a larger or increased uniform sizes. In other embodiments the characteristics of the polymer structure of the surface of the particle may be tailored by selection of the time of addition of and or functionality of monomer units to control specific characteristics of the particle such as swelling solubility and the like.

As recited herein the second step of the disclosed ATDP process comprises adding precursors for the controlled radical co polymerization system and polymerizing remaining first radically co polymerizable monomers by a controlled radical co polymerization process to form substantially uniform sized functional co polymer particles. According to various embodiments the controlled radical co polymerization process may be selected from atom transfer radical polymerization processes including an initiation procedure comprising standard ATRP reverse ATRP simultaneous reverse and normal initiation ATRP SR NI ATRP initiator for continuous activator regeneration ATRP ICAR ATRP and activator regeneration by electron transfer ATRP ARGET ATRP . The various components of suitable precursor systems and initiation procedures for these ATRP processes are described in previous ATRP based patents by Matyjaszewski et al. For example according to one embodiment adding the precursors for the controlled radical co polymerization system may comprise adding a transition metal in a higher oxidation state comprising a radically transferable atom or group and a ligand that forms a complex with the transition metal. According to specific embodiments the ligand transition metal complex may be soluble in the substantially uniform sized micelles in the reaction medium solvent monomer such that the ligand transition metal complex may migrate to the micelle. Once in the micelle the ATRP polymerization of the remaining first radically co polymerizable monomer s and or any additionally added radically co polymerizable monomer s may be initiated.

As described herein certain embodiments of the presently disclosed processes may further comprise adding at least one cross linkable monomer. According to these embodiments the cross linkable monomer may be incorporated into the copolymer structure and form cross links between the developing polymer chains. These cross links may then impart desired characteristics to the resulting copolymer particles. According to one embodiment the at least one cross linkable monomer may be added in a continuous manner in order to incorporate the targeted level of crosslinking units into the particle without inducing particle aggregation. In other embodiments the at least one cross linkable monomer may be added in multiple addition stages. Specific examples of suitable cross linkable monomers include radically cross polymerizable monomers having two or more radically reactive groups such as a plurality of carbon carbon double or triple bonds. For example in certain embodiments the cross linkable monomer may comprise a polyvinyl monomer such as a divinyl monomer for example divinylbenzene DVB .

In specific embodiments of the disclosed dispersion polymerization process the process may further comprise separating the substantially uniform sized functional co polymer particles from the reaction medium and submitting the substantially uniform sized co polymer particles to an atom transfer radical suspension polymerization process wherein the substantially uniform sized co polymer particles are used as a multifunctional macroinitiator for the ATRP process. This embodiment takes advantage of the fact that the co polymer particles formed by the ATDP process will have reactive functionality at the ends of the polymer chain ends i.e. a transferable atom or group that may react in further ATRP type processes. Thus the particles formed by the ATDP process disclosed herein may be further modified and or functionalized by additional CRP processes or atom transfer radical addition ATRA processes.

According to the various embodiments of the present disclosure the substantially uniform sized functional co polymer particles formed by the disclosed two step ATDP process may have an average particle size ranging from 0.1 m to 15 m. In other embodiments the co polymer particles may have an average particle size ranging from 0.5 m to 10 m However one skilled in the art will recognize that particles having uniform size but larger size i.e. greater than 15 m may be synthesized utilizing the ATDP synthesized particles as macroinitiators with further functionalization of the surface reactive atoms or groups by further ATRP processes.

Other embodiments of the present disclosure provide a continuous two step batch dispersion polymerization process for the preparation of substantially uniform sized functional co polymer particles. The process comprises a first step comprising polymerizing at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s by a free radical co polymerization process to form a co polymer in a stable colloidal dispersion and a second step comprising polymerizing the at least one first radically co polymerizable monomer s or an additional radically co polymerizable monomer s in the stable colloidal dispersion by a controlled radical co polymerization process to form substantially uniform sized functional co polymer particles. As described herein the stable colloidal dispersion may comprise the co polymer formed by the FRP process in substantially uniform sized micelles dispersed in a reaction medium comprising a stabilizer and a non aqueous polar solvent. Suitable initiation procedures for controlled radical co polymerization processes are described herein.

In specific embodiments the second step of the two step batch dispersion polymerization process may further comprise adding precursors for a controlled radically co polymerization system to the process. Suitable precursor systems are described herein. Other embodiments may further comprise adding one or more cross linkable monomers such as a divinyl monomer as set forth herein.

The various non limiting embodiments of the present two step atom transfer dispersion polymerization process described herein will be better understood when read in conjunction with the following non limiting examples.

All chemicals including EBiB bpy CuBr CuBr poly N vinylpyrrolidone PVP average M 55 000 TRITONS X 305 octylphenol ethoxylate 70 were purchased from Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. and were used as received unless otherwise stated. Styrene 99 and divinylbenzene DVB 80 were purified by passing through a column filled with basic aluminum oxide to remove inhibitor and or antioxidant and was stored at 5 C. 2 2 Azobisisobutylronitrile AIBN was recrystallized in ethanol. Tripyridinemethyleneamine TPMA was synthesized according to the published procedures.

A 50 mL Schlenk flask was charged with ethanol styrene and DVB if preparing crosslinked particles stabilizer PVP co stabilizer TRITONS X 305 and initiator AIBN. Detailed recipes are listed in Table 1. The resulting homogenous solution was deoxygenated by bubbling with nitrogen at room temperature for 30 min. The flask was then placed in a 70 C. oil bath and stirred with a magnetic stirrer at 100 rpm. The polymerization was stopped after 24 hours by cooling the flask to room temperature.

The one batch reactions were performed using the same procedure employed for the conventional radical dispersion polymerization the only difference was addition of the components required for the ATRP together with the monomer and solvents. These examples provided particles with a broader distribution of particle size. The detailed recipes are listed in Table 1.

In the two stage experiments all of the stabilizer PVP the co stabilizer TRITONS X 305 and initiator AIBN and half of the monomer and ethanol were charged to a 50 mL Schlenk flask. The formed homogeneous solution was deoxygenated by bubbling nitrogen through the mixture at room temperature for 30 min. The flask was then placed in a 70 C. oil bath under magnetic stirring 100 rpm. CuBrand TPMA were dissolved in a mixture of the remaining styrene and ethanol at 70 C. under nitrogen. This solution was added to the reaction after the polymerization had run for 45 min. Aliquots were withdrawn from the reaction at different time intervals to determine conversion by gravimetry. The samples were dried and dissolved in THF before being subjected to gel permeation chromatography GPC for molecular weight analysis. The polymerizations were stopped by exposing the catalysts to air.

Monomer conversion was measured gravimetrically. Molecular weight and molecular weight distribution M M were determined by GPC equipped with an autosampler Waters 717 plus HPLC pump with THF as eluant at 1 mL min Waters 515 and four columns guard 10 10 and 100 Polymer Standards Services in series. Toluene was used as an internal standard. A calibration curve based on linear polystyrene standards was used in conjunction with a differential refractometer Waters 2410 . Particle sizes and particle size distributions were examined by scanning electron microscopy SEM Hitachi S 2460N . SEM samples were prepared by drying a drop of diluted suspension on a clean microscope cover glass. The average particle size was based on measurement of 300 individual particles in the SEM images.

Further examples targeting different degrees of polymerization DP were conducted and the result from examination of various initiator concentrations was the size of particles decreased as the amount of initiator decreased. See . With a higher initial concentration of radicals the number of radicals present in the system increased and accordingly the rate of polymerization increased and the stabilizers were not able to quickly cover the surface of each proto particle therefore the oligomers tended to aggregate and form larger nuclei and therefore larger particles are obtained. Similar reasoning would indicate that with a given initiator a larger particle size is also obtained at higher temperature.

Runs 3 and 4 in Table 2 demonstrate the utility of adding fractions of the required amount of DVB multiple times to resolve these stability problems. Polystyrene particles were successfully prepared using a two stage atom transfer radical dispersion polymerization in which 1 wt DVB was added together with the second fraction of monomers and solvents. The particles remained stable after 24 hours with monomer conversion 95 . It is worth noting that the polystyrene particles can only be clearly observed in SEM when the monomer conversion was higher than 50 60 . At low conversion the particles are excessively swollen with monomer and solvent. They form a film on the glass substrate and a very soft SEM image would be anticipated. However as shows even at the low monomer conversion 26 the crosslinked particles were already clearly imaged indicating DVB has been incorporated into the particles. The surface morphology of the particles was rather smooth at low monomer conversion but noticeably rougher when the conversion was higher which can be clearly seen with a high magnification in . This increase in surface roughness has been also observed when conventional dispersion polymerization was carried out in the presence of crosslinking agents. In the present study the particles remained spherical and monodisperse till the end of polymerization. The crosslinked particles can be easily dispersed in THF.

A direct ATRP of HEMA was carried out with crosslinked polystyrene particles as macroinitiators in DMF at 35 C. The crosslinked polystyrene particles were synthesized in a two stage atom transfer radical dispersion copolymerization and were separated from the ethanol suspension medium by centrifugation 5000 rpm 20 min . The particles were washed with THF to remove any remaining monomer and dried under vacuum. A dispersion of the particles 0.2 g in DMF 3.6 mL was mixed with HEMA monomer 1.44 mL and bpy 0.0185 g then the mixture was subjected to five cycles of freeze pump thaw to remove oxygen. The reaction flask was then back filled with nitrogen and CuCl 0.0056 g CuCl 0.0004 g were added to the frozen mixture. The flask was sealed again and subject to vacuum followed by back filling with nitrogen. The reaction flask was then placed in a 35 C. oil bath to conduct the polymerization. The polymerization was stopped after 40 hours by exposing the reaction mixture to air. The products were separated by centrifugation 5000 rpm 20 min and washed by methanol for several times.

MMA was also examined as a monomer for dispersion polymerization. It was determined that ethanol was not an appropriate dispersion medium for such system since PMMA has too high a solubility in ethanol. Thus methanol was selected. PVP was still used as stabilizer and no co stabilizer was used in this system.

A free radical polymerization was first attempted. The rate of the polymerization was close to a 1st order reaction however the polymer showed a typical trend of molecular weight evolvement as in a free radical polymerization and a broadening of MWD as conversion increased.

Two step ATDP was then applied in this system. The kinetic plot looked very similar to that in FRP but the rate polymerization was considerably slower because of the effect of deactivation by Cu II . The MWD of the obtained polymer was significantly narrower close to 1.5.

