---

title: System and method for migrating a large scale batch of customer accounts from one VoIP system to another VoIP system
abstract: A system and method in accordance with exemplary embodiments may include receiving account data associated with one or more accounts scheduled to be migrated from one or more first VoIP phone systems to a second VoIP phone system via a network, organizing the one or more accounts based on at least one customer service records and one system log, migrating the one or more accounts into one or more shell accounts provided by the second VoIP phone system, configuring each customer device associated with the one or more accounts to receive data from the second VoIP phone system, and migrating account settings data and account call history data associated with the one or more accounts from the one or more first VoIP phone systems to the second VoIP phone system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08670441&OS=08670441&RS=08670441
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08670441
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080613
---
In general Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP phone systems may provide phone services to customers using digital technologies that may be connected to the Internet. A VoIP phone system may include several hardware and or software components operating on a server side and or a customer side of the VoIP phone system. For many different reasons customers may change VoIP phone service providers by terminating VoIP phone service with one VoIP phone service provider and initiating VoIP phone service with another VoIP phone service provider. In many instances migrating a VoIP customer account from one VoIP phone system to another VoIP phone system may involve a manual process that is time consuming and inefficient. It is preferable however to minimize customer input minimize phone service downtime utilize existing customer devices and or minimize dependency on first VoIP phone systems when migrating customer accounts from a first VoIP phone system to a second VoIP phone system.

These and other embodiments and advantages will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the various exemplary embodiments.

The description below describes servers engines systems and network elements that may include one or more modules some of which are explicitly shown in the figures others that are not. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computing software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices.

The description below also describes physical and logical elements of a migration system some of which are explicitly shown in figures others that are not. The inclusion of some physical elements of a migration system may help illustrate how a given system may be modeled. It should be noted however that all illustrations are purely exemplary and that the migration system described herein may be performed on different varieties of systems which may include different physical and logical elements.

For instance migration system from illustrates a simplified view of a migration system and various elements in the migration system. It is noted that other hardware and software not depicted may be included in migration system . It is also noted that migration system illustrates a specific number of instances of first VoIP systems automatic migration engines second VoIP systems customer systems gateway systems account migration workflow systems and or networks. It will be appreciated that a single instance and or multiple instances of these entities may be included in a migration system.

It is further noted that the software described herein may be tangibly embodied in one or more physical media such as but not limited to a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a hard drive read only memory ROM random access memory RAM as well as other physical media capable of storing software and or combinations thereof. Moreover the figures illustrate various components e.g. servers engines systems and network elements separately. The functions described as being performed at various components may be performed at other components and the various components may be combined and or separated. Other modifications also may be made.

Migrating customer accounts from a first VoIP phone system to a second VoIP phone system may involve a process that heavily relies on human interaction. The number of customer accounts that may be migrated simultaneously may be limited by the amount of man power available. Accordingly many migration processes may include migrating one customer account at a time. Given the large amount of customer movement from and or to various VoIP phone systems migrating customer accounts in large scale batches has become more desirable.

In various embodiments a large number of customer accounts may be migrated from a first VoIP phone system to a second VoIP phone system using an automated system such as a migration system. A migration system may include software and or hardware configured to organize manage and or migrate one or more customer accounts without customer input with minimal customer input and or with minimal first VoIP phone service provider input. In various embodiments the migration system may include software and or hardware configured to organize manage and or migrate a large number e.g. hundreds thousands tens of thousands of customer accounts.

In various embodiments minimal customer input may include a customer confirming credit card information and or a customer performing any other task to aid in the migration process. In various embodiments minimal first VoIP phone service provider input may include transmitting one or more signals to a customer system to initiate the configuration of the customer system to receive and or transmit data to the second VoIP phone system and or performing any other task to aid in the migration process.

In an exemplary embodiment a first VoIP phone service provider may include a phone service provider associated with a VoIP phone system that previously provided VoIP phone service to a customer. In an exemplary embodiment a second VoIP phone service provider may include a phone service provider associated with a Vow phone system that currently provides VoIP phone service to a customer.

In various embodiments a large number of customer accounts may be migrated from a first VoIP phone system to a second VoIP phone system using a partially automated migration system. Accordingly one or more functions of the migration system may be performed using human interaction.

In various embodiments a migration system may begin to migrate a large number of customer accounts by analyzing and or filtering one or more customer accounts. Analyzing a customer account may include accessing a customer service record and or a system log associated with a customer to determine if a particular customer is associated with an abnormal customer device and or a customer device with an abnormal configuration. An abnormal customer device may include an obsolete customer device and or an unsupported customer device that is not configured to function according to the second VoIP phone system s requirements. In various embodiments a customer device with an abnormal configuration may include a customer device that is associated with one or more devices that may impair the quality of service provided by the second VoIP phone system. If for example the migration system determines that a particular customer account is associated with an abnormal customer device and or a customer device with an abnormal configuration the migration system may filter out e.g. remove the customer account from one or more remaining customer accounts that may be migrated. If however the migration system determines that a particular customer account is not associated with an abnormal customer device and or a customer device with an abnormal configuration the migration system may continue the migration process by grouping and or ordering one or more customer accounts.

Given that the migration of a large number of customer accounts may utilize a significant amount of man power computing processing power computing resources e.g. computers network bandwidth and time e.g. one or more days one or more weeks one or more months the migration system may partition the customer accounts scheduled to be migrated into groups. The groups may be created such that the customer accounts associated with a particular group may be migrated in a single day e.g. a migration window . In various embodiments a migration window e.g. the amount of time to migrate one or more customer accounts may be determined to minimize the impact of the migration process on a customer. For example a migration window may be determined to begin at or near midnight and end within two hours. In various embodiments a migration window may be determined by the implementers of the first VoIP phone system the implementers of the second VoIP phone system the implementers of the gateway system and or the implementers of the migration system.

In various embodiments the migration of customer accounts may create the risk of system failures in the several systems involved and thus the migration system may attempt to reduce the possibility of a system failure by operating one or more subsystems and or one or more components of the migration system on one or more small groups of customer accounts. Grouping one or more customer accounts may include partitioning the large number of customer accounts into one or more customer account groups based on telephone service usage pattern time zone call plan desired size of group e.g. group of any 10 customer accounts group of any 100 customer accounts system capabilities e.g. processing power may support customer account groups of 10 processing power may support customer account groups of 100 and or any other characteristic that may be used to group the large number of customer accounts into one or more customer account groups. For example the migration system may group one or more customer accounts associated with low telephone service usage into one or more customer account groups and or may group one or more customer accounts associated with high telephone service usage into one or more other customer account groups. Accordingly the migration system may migrate customer accounts with low telephone service usage first and gradually migrate customer accounts with average telephone service usage and or high telephone service usage.

In various embodiments to test errors and or failures in newly created accounts associated with the second VoIP phone system the migration system may create one or more shell accounts. A shell account may include a standard account that is created for testing and is not associated with any feature settings. A feature setting may include call waiting three way calling call forwarding and or any other telephone service calling features. Accordingly the migration system may select and or migrate one or more customer accounts associated with a particular customer account group into one or more shell accounts to test one or more new customer accounts created in the second VoIP phone system prior to activation of the one or more new customer accounts.

In various embodiments the migration system may configure and or cause to be configured the Public Switch Telephone Network PSTN to VoIP gateway for one or more customer accounts associated with a particular customer account group. Configuring the PSTN to VoIP gateway may include ensuring that all incoming telephone calls from a PSTN may be properly directed to the second VoIP phone system.

In various embodiments the migration system may update and or may cause the updating of one or more configuration files associated with one or more customer devices. The migration system may reboot and or may cause the rebooting of one or more customer devices. In various embodiments rebooting one or more customer devices may initiate the customer devices to retrieve e.g. fetch one or more configuration files from the migration system. The migration system may terminate and or may cause the terminating of one or more customer accounts associated with the first VoIP phone system. The migration system may test a dial tone for one or more customer devices migrate one or more feature setting from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system and or migrate one or more call histories from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system.

Using migration control signals the account migration workflow system may organize and or manage the elements of the migration system in migrating one or more customer accounts from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system . Migration control signals may include signals that initiate and or terminate one or more migration functions. In various embodiments a migration control signal may include an electronic signal that may be acted upon by an electronic device. In various embodiments a migration control signal may be associated with an Email message an Instant Message a telephone call and or any other message that may be created and or perceived by a human.

The account migration workflow system may receive migration response signals from one or more elements of the migration system such as the first VoIP phone system the automatic migration engine the second VoIP phone system the customer system and or the gateway system using network . Migration response signals may include signals that provide a status of one or more requested functions and or signals that include data associated with one or more requested functions and or migration functions. In various embodiments a migration response signal may include an electronic signal that may be acted upon by an electronic device. In various embodiments a migration response signal may be associated with an Email message an Instant Message a telephone call and or any other message that may be created and or perceived by a human.

The network may include an analog telephone network a digital telephone network a cellular telephone network a public wide area network WAN such as the Internet or different connections such as combinations of public and private WANs local areas networks LANs wireless LANs encrypted networks body area networks or other wired or wireless networks capable of communicating migration control signals migration response signals and or migration information to and or from one or more elements of the migration system . In an exemplary embodiment the network may include one or more networks operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Use of the term network herein is not intended to limit the network to a single network.

In exemplary embodiments the migration system may include an account migration workflow system a first VoIP phone system an automatic migration engine a second VoIP phone system a customer system and or a gateway system communicatively coupled to a network . The network may communicate migration control signals from the account migration workflow system to the first VoIP phone system the automatic migration engine the second VoIP phone system the customer system and or the gateway system . The network may communicate migration response signals from the first VoIP phone system the automatic migration engine the second VoIP phone system the customer system and or the gateway system to the account migration workflow system .

In an exemplary embodiment the account migration workflow system may include software and or hardware that is configured to receive migration response signals from the network and or may communicate migration control signals to the network . The account migration workflow system may include but is not limited to a computer device or communications device including e.g. a personal computer PC a workstation a thin system a fat system network appliance an Internet browser a server and or any other device that is configured to receive migration response signals and or transmit migration control signals to organize and or manage the migration of a large number of customer accounts from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system .

In various embodiments one or more functions of the account migration workflow system may be performed using human interaction. Accordingly human interaction may be used to organize and or manage the migration of a large number of customer accounts from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system .

In an exemplary embodiment the first VoIP phone system may include software and or hardware configured to receive migration control signals from the network and or may communicate migration response signals to the network . The first VoIP phone system may include but is not limited to a computer device or communications device including e.g. a personal computer PC a workstation a thin system a fat system network appliance an Internet browser an application programming interface API a server and or any other device that is configured to receive migration control signals and or transmit migration response signals to aid in the migration of a large number of customer accounts from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system .

In an exemplary embodiment the automatic migration engine may include software and or hardware configured to receive migration control signals from the network and or may communicate migration response signals to the network . The automatic migration engine may include but is not limited to a computer device or communications device including e.g. a personal computer PC a workstation a thin system a fat system network appliance an Internet browser an application programming interface API a server and or any other device that is configured to receive migration control signals and or transmit migration response signals to aid in the migration of a large number of customer accounts from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system .

In an exemplary embodiment the second VoIP phone system may include software and or hardware configured to receive migration control signals from the network and or may communicate migration response signals to the network . The second VoIP phone system may include but is not limited to a computer device or communications device including e.g. a personal computer PC a workstation a thin system a fat system network appliance an Internet browser an application programming interface API a server and or any other device that is configured to receive migration control signals and or transmit migration response signals to aid in the migration of a large number of customer accounts from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system .

In an exemplary embodiment the customer system may include software and or hardware configured to receive migration control signals from the network and or may communicate migration response signals to the network . The customer system may include but is not limited to a computer device or communications device including e.g. customer premises equipment CPE a personal computer PC a workstation a mobile device a phone a handheld PC a personal digital assistant PDA a thin system a fat system network appliance an Internet browser an application programming interface API a paging device an alert device a television an interactive television a receiver a tuner a high definition HD television an HiD receiver a video on demand VOD system a server and or any other device that is configured to receive migration control signals and or transmit migration response signals to aid in the migration of a large number of customer accounts from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system .

In an exemplary embodiment the gateway system may include software and or hardware configured to receive migration control signals from the network and or may communicate migration response signals to the network . The gateway system may include but is not limited to a computer device or communications device including e.g. a personal computer PC a workstation a thin system a fat system network appliance an Internet browser an application programming interface API a server a gateway a router and or any other device that is configured to receive migration control signals and or transmit migration response signals to aid in the migration of a large number of customer accounts from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system .

It is noted that any of the functions of the elements of the migration system may be performed using human interaction. Accordingly human interaction may be used to aid in the migration of a large number of customer accounts from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system . The account migration workflow system the automatic migration engine and the gateway system are discussed in further detail below.

As illustrated the account migration workflow system may be configured to operate as the high level control mechanism e.g. an intermediary system to coordinate functions between one or more sub systems to organize and or manage the migration of a large number of customer accounts from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system by interfacing with and or coordinating one or more elements of the migration system . In various embodiments the account migration workflow system may define and or execute one or more top level processes e.g. a coordinating process and or function an organizing process and or function associated with the entire migration task. For example the account migration workflow system may define and or execute pre migration phase tasks such as customer account grouping and or credit card collection steps. The credit card collection steps may include accessing and or collecting credit card information associated with each customer account to be migrated from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system .

In another example the account migration workflow system may define and or execute migration phase tasks such as generating and or transmitting an order for the gateway system to prepare to re configure the PSTN to VoIP gateway for one or more customer accounts associated with a particular customer account group such that all incoming telephone calls are properly directed to the second VoIP phone system . Additional migration phase tasks performed by the account migration workflow system may include generating and or transmitting one or more notifications of the upcoming migration to one or more customer systems for one or more customer accounts associated with the particular customer account group and or generating and or transmitting one or more notifications of the upcoming migration to the second VoIP phone system .

The account migration workflow system may initiate the automatic migration engine to discontinue customer access to one or more customer accounts associated the particular customer account group during the migration process. In addition the account migration workflow system may initiate the automatic migration engine to migrate core account data from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system . The account migration workflow system may create a customer account group that includes one or more customer accounts that have passed the validation process executed by the gateway system discussed in further detail below generate and or transmit an order for the gateway system to re configure the PSTN to VoIP gateway for one or more customer accounts associated with the valid customer account group such that all incoming telephone calls are properly directed to the second VoIP phone system and or generate and or transmit an order for the first VoIP phone system to update one or more configuration files associated with one or more customer devices of the valid customer account group such that the one or more customer devices may be configured to transmit data to and or receive data from the second VoIP phone system and stop billing customer accounts associated with the valid customer account group.

The account migration workflow system may initiate the automatic migration engine to execute one or more device testing workflows to verify that one or more customer accounts associated with the valid customer account group have been migrated to the second VoIP phone system and or initiate the automatic migration engine to copy and or migrate the remaining data e.g. one or more calling logs one or more billing histories from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system associated with one or more customer accounts of the valid customer account group.

In yet another example the account migration workflow system may define and or execute post migration phase tasks such as ensuring that the configuration of one or more customer devices associated with the valid customer account group will continue to be configured to transmit data to and or receive data from the second VoIP phone system after a reset of the customer device. For example a manufacturer of a particular customer device may have set e.g. burned in the customer device to point to a Uniform Resource Locator URL associated with the first VoIP phone system s configuration settings. Accordingly the Domain Name System DNS associated with the customer device may be updated to redirect the URL to the new configuration settings associated with the second VoIP phone system such that a reset of the customer device may not modify the configuration settings.

The account migration workflow system may define and or execute high level manual and or automatic migration processes e.g. workflows and support a wide range of communication methods such as Emails telephone calls and or propagation of electronic signals. The automatic migration engine may define and or execute low level e.g. tedious tasks repetitive tasks and or sub system tasks automatic migration processes e.g. workflows and may communicate mainly using one or more application programming interfaces APIs to communicate with the first VoIP phone system and the second VoIP phone system .

As illustrated the automatic migration engine may be configured to communicate with the first VoIP phone system and the second VoIP phone system to execute one or more sub migration processes e.g. sub workflows for migrating individual accounts from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system . In various embodiments the automatic migration engine may be configured to be flexible in the manner in which it migrates customer accounts. For example the automatic migration engine may be configured to migrate a group of customer accounts one after the other In another example the automatic migration engine may be configured to migrate a group of customer accounts from one step in the migration process to the next step in the migration process e.g. not necessarily the first or the last step . In yet another example the automatic migration engine may be configured to resume the migration process at the last step executed prior to a failure in the migration process after the error that caused the failure has been resolved without proceeding through the entire migration process from the first step.

Since the automatic migration engine is configured to execute low level e.g. tedious and or repetitive migration processes such as migrating individual customer accounts the automatic migration engine may be configured to operate as an intermediary sub system of the migration system and mainly communicates with and or interacts with the first VoIP phone system and the second VoIP phone system . In order to maximize the performance of the migration system the automatic migration engine may be designed as a fully automatic system. In various embodiments the automatic migration engine may be configured to perform tasks which may be considered to be tedious and or repetitive by the implementers of the migration system such as migrating individual customer accounts one after the other and or migrating a group of customer accounts from one step to the next step. In various embodiments the automatic migration engine may be configured to be non intrusive to the first VoIP phone system by utilizing one or more pre existing function calls that are read only operations. The automatic migration engine is described in further detail below.

The gateway system may include software and or hardware configured to direct one or more incoming telephone calls to the proper VoIP phone system. In various embodiments the gateway system may be configured to validate one or more customer accounts associated with the particular customer account group to be migrated. Validating the one or more customer accounts may include validating one or more telephone numbers and or one or more configurations associated with the one or more customer accounts associated with the particular customer account group. In various embodiments the gateway system may be configured to re configure the PSTN to VoIP gateway for one or more customer accounts associated with the valid customer account group such that all incoming telephone calls are properly directed to the second VoIP phone system .

The web portal module may include a web browser client associated with the automatic migration engine such as but not limited to INTERNET EXPLORER NAVIGATOR or FIREFOX web browser programs offered by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Time Warner of New York N.Y. and the Mozilla Foundation of Mountain View Calif. respectively. The web portal module may be used to input and or receive information from the automatic migration engine . For example the web portal module may be used by implementers of the migration system to operate the automatic migration engine .

The controller module may include software and or hardware configured to realize the migration control signals received from the general account migration workflow system and or one or more implementers of the migration system using the web portal module . The controller module may be configured to coordinate one or more migration functions with the workflow manager the workflow worker manager module and or the migration account status manager module based on the one or more migration control signals received.

The workflow manager module may include software and or hardware configured to manage one or more workflows which may include creating and or composing one or more high level workflows from one or more low level workflows and or one or more sub workflows. In various embodiments a workflow may include a set of execution steps that are executed one at a time in an ordered sequence. A high level workflow may include a set of low level workflows and or a set of sub workflows. In various embodiments a workflow may define a business logic and or a business process.

The workflow worker manager module may include software and or hardware configured to generate and or manage one or more workflow workers. A workflow worker may include a working process that may execute a workflow. In various embodiments a workflow worker may be associated with a lifecycle that begins at the beginning of a workflow and ends at the end of a workflow. The workflow worker is discussed in further detail below.

The migration account status manager module may include software and or hardware configured to book keep manage and or maintain one or more customer accounts in the migration process and or the status of each customer account in the migration process. In various embodiments a workflow may include several steps. If for example the migration of a particular customer accounts stops in the middle of a workflow the migration process may be resumed at the proper step using the migration account status manager module . Accordingly the migration account status manager module may be configured to monitor the migration process and or record the status of migration for each customer account in the migration process such that one or more partially migrated customer accounts may resume the migration process from the step prior to a stopping point.

The first VoIP phone system connector module may include software and or hardware configured to communicatively couple the automatic migration engine to the first VoIP phone system . The second VoIP phone system connector module may include software and or hardware configured to communicatively couple the automatic migration engine to the second VoIP phone system .

The database module may include software and or hardware configured to access and or store information associated with one or more customer accounts in the migration process. In various embodiments this information may include migration status and or other migration related information.

By way of a non limiting example the modules of the automatic migration engine may interact with each other in the following manner. For example using a web browser associated with the web portal module an implementer of the migration system may enter and submit a migration command such as Migrate customer accounts starting with account 10500 to 10999 using the data migration workflow WFI. Accordingly the controller module may analyze the command received and may access the workflow manager module to determine if the specified workflow is valid and or access the migration account status manager module to determine if the customer accounts specified are valid. The migration account status manager module may then prepare the specified customer accounts for migration by locking the specified customer accounts such that the specified customer accounts may not be modified by any other source.

If the previous steps execute successfully the controller module may execute the following steps until all the specified customer accounts have been processed request a workflow worker that is initialized with the specified workflow from the workflow worker manager module if a workflow worker is not available the controller module may wait for an available workflow worker request a specified customer account from the migration account status manager module if all specified customer accounts are complete the process may end pass the specified customer account to the workflow worker and initiate the workflow the workflow worker may operate within its own thread until the workflow is complete proceed to the first step.

In various embodiments while the workflow worker is executing it may execute a specified workflow step by step. These steps may include read operation associated with the first VoIP phone system and or a write operation associated with the second VoIP phone system . When a workflow has completed for a specified customer account successfully and or unsuccessfully the workflow worker manager module may transmit the migration status of the specified customer account to the migration account status manager module . In various embodiments the migration status of a customer account may be represented by an identification of the last step that the migration process successfully executed and or additional migration status information. If for example the migration process failed at a particular step for a specified account in addition to the identification of the last successfully executed step the migration status may also include a description of one or more failures and or errors.

As illustrated in the account migration activity space model may include two dimensions. The A axis dimension may include the customer accounts. The S axis dimension may include the steps for the migration of a customer account. Accordingly a pair of an account and a step e.g. Customer Account 1095 Migration Step 3 Customer Account 1111 Migration Step 5 may determine a migration activity. In various embodiments one or more customer accounts may be grouped according to common attributes and or one or more consecutive steps may be grouped into step groups and or sub workflows. Accordingly an account group and a step group may determine an activity group.

As shown in the sequential migration strategy may begin at point at the first customer account at the first step and automatically execute all the steps for that customer account one after the other until the migration process reaches point . Next the migration process may start at point with the next customer account at the first step associated with that customer account and execute all the steps for that customer account one after the other until the migration process reaches point . The sequential migration may continue in this manner until all customer accounts have been migrated.

To minimize the risk of failures the general account migration workflow system may utilize the following strategy to partition and or group one or more customer accounts and or group one or more steps to create one or more migration activity groups and or to define the order in which the one or more migration activity groups may be executed The size of the group may be determined by the number of customer accounts that may be migrated by a migration system The test customer account group may be determined to test the migration process on small groups of test customer accounts to minimize the effects of possible system failures The average customer accounts groups which may include customer accounts without abnormal configurations The hybrid customer account group may include customer accounts associated with one or more characteristics such as usage pattern features etc. The normal customer account group may include customer accounts that may execute the migration process at a normal pace after the migration system has been tested.

In block the method may include receiving customer account data associated with one or more customer accounts scheduled to be migrated from a first VoIP phone system to a second VoIP phone system via a network. In an exemplary embodiment the migration system may receive customer account data from a first VoIP phone system using the automatic migration engine . The method may continue to block .

In block the method may include analyzing and or filtering one or more customer accounts. In an exemplary embodiment analyzing and or filtering one or more customer accounts may include the account migration workflow system accessing a customer service record and or a system log associated with a customer to determine if a particular customer is associated with an abnormal customer device and or a customer device with an abnormal configuration. If for example the account migration workflow system determines that a particular customer account is associated with an abnormal customer device and or a customer device with an abnormal configuration the migration system may filter out e.g. remove the customer account from one or more remaining customer accounts that may be migrated. If however the account migration workflow system determines that a particular customer account is not associated with an abnormal customer device and or a customer device with an abnormal configuration the method may continue the migration process by grouping and or ordering one or more customer accounts in block .

In block the method may include grouping one or more customer accounts. In an exemplary embodiment the account migration workflow system may group one or more customer accounts by partitioning a large number of customer accounts into one or more customer account groups based on telephone service usage pattern time zone call plan desired group size e.g. group of any customer accounts group of any customer accounts and or any other characteristic that may be used to group the large number of customer accounts into one or more customer account groups. The method may continue to block .

In block the method may include migrating one or more customer accounts into one or more shell accounts. In an exemplary embodiment the migration system may create one or more shell accounts on the second VoIP phone system for testing the customer accounts. The one or more shell accounts may not be associated with call features. In various embodiments the migration system may migrate one or more customer accounts into one or more shell accounts using the automatic migration engine . The method may continue to block .

In block the method may include reconfiguring a gateway system . In an exemplary embodiment the account migration workflow system may generate and or transmit an order for a Public Switch Telephone Network PSTN to VoIP gateway e.g. the gateway system to reconfigure one or more customer accounts associated with a particular customer account group. Reconfiguring the gateway system may include ensuring that all incoming telephone calls from a PSTN may be properly directed to the second VoIP phone system . The method may continue to block .

In block the method may include updating one or more configuration files of one or more customer devices associated with one or more customer accounts. In an exemplary embodiment the account migration workflow system may generate and or transmit an order to the first VoIP phone system for one or more configuration files associated with one or more customer devices to be updated such that the customer device may be configured to receive data from and or transmit data to the second VoIP phone system . The method may continue to block .

In block the method may include migrating one or more feature setting from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system and or migrating one or more call histories from the first VoIP phone system to the second VoIP phone system . In an exemplary embodiment the automatic migration engine may migrate the one or more call feature settings and or one or more call histories using the first VoIP phone system connector module and or the second VoIP phone system connector . The method may then end.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

