---

title: Continuous interface maintenance for group communications to a wireless communications device group
abstract: A system, method, and computer device that selectively maintain an open interface to a communication control device that is controlling wireless communication to at least one of a plurality of wireless communication devices that are in a communication group, such as a push-to-talk (PTT) group. In one embodiment, the wireless communication device registers at the communication control device, such as a base station controller, and at least one interface is established between the communication control device and another computer device on the wireless communication network, such as a broadcast A10 interface with a broadcast serving node (BSN). The communication control device will then maintain the interface while the at least one wireless communication device, or at least one member device of the communication group, is registered such that group communications can more rapidly be delivered to the wireless communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08761822&OS=08761822&RS=08761822
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08761822
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080917
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 974 838 entitled CONTINUOUS INTERFACE MAINTENANCE FOR GROUP COMMUNICATIONS TO A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE GROUP filed Sep. 24 2007 and to Provisional Application No. 60 974 839 entitled CONTINUOUS BROADCAST INTERFACE MAINTENANCE FOR GROUP COMMUNICATIONS TO WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES filed Sep. 24 2007 each of which is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present invention relates to point to point or point to multipoint wireless communications systems. More specifically the present invention relates to a system and method for maintaining an open and continuous interface for group communications such as push to talk PTT communications to a wireless communication device that is a member of a communication group.

In cellular wireless telecommunications there have been several standards implemented regarding the creation and functionality of the communication infrastructure. One of the more recent standards is CDMA2000 where CDMA is an abbreviation for code division multiple access. CDMA2000 supports a Broadcast Multicast Service BCMCS which allows optimization of the radio interface for delivery of BCMCS content stream s to one or more wireless communication devices in one or more regions of an cellular carrier s network. The CDMA2000 protocol allows for both voice and data to be transmitted to and from wireless communication devices and determines the appropriate resource allocation for communications both to and from the wireless telecommunication device and the radio access network RAN and in between communication control devices such as base stations packet data serving nodes PDSN and broadcast serving nodes BSN .

There exists a wireless telecommunication service that provides a quick one to one or one to many communication that is generically referred to as Push To Talk PTT capability. The specific PTT group of recipient devices for the communicating wireless device is commonly set up by the carrier. A PTT communication connection is typically initiated by a single button push on the wireless device that activates a half duplex link between the speaker and each member device of the group and once the button is released the device can receive incoming PTT transmissions once the button is released. In some arrangements the PTT speaker will have the floor where no other group member can speak while the speaker is speaking. Once the speaker releases the PTT button any other individual member of the group can engage their PTT button and they will have the floor.

It is important to have a very fast setup of the signal path of the PTT call because of the desired immediacy of the voice communication. Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide a system and method to expedite PTT communication setup with a target wireless communication device given the time sensitivity of the communication. Such system and method can advantageously utilize existing cellular network infrastructure that would otherwise have latency delays in PTT communications. It is thus to the provision of such a system and method to expedite communications with a wireless communication device that the present invention is primarily directed.

Embodiments of the invention include systems methods and computer devices that selectively maintain an open interface to a communication control device that is controlling wireless communication to at least one of a plurality of wireless communication devices that are in a communication group such as a push to talk PTT group. In one embodiment the wireless communication device registers at the communication control device such as a base station controller and at least one interface is established between the communication control device and another computer device on the wireless communication network such as a broadcast A10 interface with a broadcast serving node BSN . The communication control device will then maintain the interface while the at least one wireless communication device or at least one member device of the communication group is registered such that group communications can more rapidly be delivered to the wireless communication device.

In this description the terms communication device wireless device wireless communications device PTT communication device handheld device mobile device and handset are used interchangeably. The terms call and communication are also used interchangeably. The term application as used herein is intended to encompass executable and non executable software files raw data aggregated data patches and other code segments. The term exemplary means that the disclosed element or embodiment is only an example and does not indicate any preference of user. Further like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several views and the articles a and the includes plural references unless otherwise specified in the description.

Furthermore the present invention is shown in several embodiments here as operating in a CDMA2000 network architecture. Reference can be had to the known standards and construction of CDMA2000 systems and network interfaces as would be known to one of skill in the art.

With reference to the figures in which like numerals represent like elements throughout illustrates one embodiment of a system for with a group communication server to one or more wireless telecommunication devices in a PTT group such as the wireless telephone smart pager and personal digital assistant PDA with other wireless telecommunication devices across a wireless network . In the system each wireless telecommunication device is capable of selectively directly communicating across the wireless communication network with a target set of one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the plurality. For example the target set for mobile telephone can be all devices in the communication group or a subset thereof such as pager and PDA .

In this embodiment the wireless telecommunication device such as mobile telephone sends a flag to at least the group communication computer device shown here as server which is present on a server side LAN across the wireless network to indicate that the wireless device is present i.e. accessible on the wireless network . The group communication computer device can share this information with the set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the first wireless telecommunication device or can also share is with other computer devices resident on the server side LAN or accessible across the wireless network . The group communication computer device can have an attached or accessible database to store the group identification data for the wireless devices. It should be appreciated that the number of computer components resident on server side LAN or across the wireless network or Internet generally are not limited.

The direct communication such as a PTT communication can be established through a half duplex channel between the communicating wireless telecommunication device and the one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the target set. Also the group communication computer device can attempt to bridge the requested direct communication with the target set if at least one of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network .

The group communication computer device can also inform the wireless telecommunication device of the inability to bridge a direct communication to the target set upon none of the wireless telecommunication devices or at least one of the target set not having informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network . Further while the group communication computer device is shown here as having the attached database of group identification data the group communication computer device can have group identity data resident thereupon and perform all storage functions described herein.

In overview the system selectively communicates to a wireless communication device for a group communication across the wireless communication network with the a group communication computer device configured to receive a request at to establish a group communication with at least one target wireless communication device e.g. mobile telephone and the group communication computer device send a request to the at least one target wireless communication device across the wireless communication network indicating an incoming group communication. An intermediate computer device such as base station controller in receives an access channel communication packet across an access channel from the at least one target wireless communication device that received the request to establish a group communication from the group communication computer device . The access communication packet indicates whether or not there are bundled messages present in the packet such as messages indicating the resources for the group communication to the at least one wireless communication device . Through the bundling of messages the wireless communication device can quickly send messages indicating the ability to handle the incoming communication without the other computer device such as base station needing to examine all messages send from the wireless communication device for bundled messages.

The group communication can be voice applications graphic media such as pictures in JPEG TIF and the like or audio files such as MP3 MP4 WAV and the like. The media can also be streaming media such as a multimedia application Powerpoint MOV file and the like . Also the group communication is typically half duplex audio conferencing among members of the communication group .

The group communication computer device are connected to a wireless service providers packet data service node PDSN such as PSDN and or a broadcast serving node shown here resident as on a carrier network . Each PSDN or BSN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF is typically located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the base transceiver station sometimes referred to as branch to source BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless devices such as cellular telephones by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art. It should also be noted that carrier boundaries and or PTT operator network boundaries do not inhibit or prohibit the sharing of data as described herein.

Cellular telephones and mobile telecommunication devices such as wireless telephone are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held PDAs. These smart cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor of the wireless device. The wireless device such as cellular telephone can download many types of applications such as web pages applets MIDlets games and data. In wireless devices that have designated a communication group the wireless communication device can directly connect with the other member of the set and engage in voice and data communication.

However all such group direct communications will occur through or be at the control of the group communication computer device . All data packets of the devices do not necessarily have to travel through the group communication computer device itself but the group communication computer device must be able to ultimately control the communication because it will typically be the only server side component that is aware of and or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group or direct the identity of the members of the communication group to another computer device.

As shown here the wireless device can be a mobile telephone with a graphics display but can also be any wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further the memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform can also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

In this embodiment of the wireless device the computer platform also includes a direct communication interface that can open the direct communication channel from the wireless device typically for the half duplex voice communication in a PTT call. The direct communication interface can also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless device. The direct communication interface typically is comprised of hardware as is known in the art.

BCMCS Content Server makes BCMCS content available within an IP Multicast stream. It should be noted that the BCMCS Content Server in the serving network is not necessarily the creator or source of the content but is the last application level entity to manipulate e.g. reformat the content prior to the content reaching the BSN . The BCMCS Content Server may store and forward the content from the BCMCS Content Provider and or merge the content from the multiple content providers. If higher layer encryption is enabled the BCMCS Content Server encrypts the stream content. In this embodiment the BCMCS Content Provider at a third party location is the creator or source of the content.

The BCMCS Subscriber Profile Manager is an application that updates the subscriber profile in the Subscriber Profile Database regarding subscribed BCMCS services. The user may interface to this application directly or the carrier operator may reserve access to this application to their customer service agents. The interface between the user and the BCMCS Subscriber Profile Manager and the interface between the BCMCS Subscriber Profile Manager and the Subscriber Profile Database are shown only for illustrative purposes of a common network configuration. The H AAA and S AAA are elements responsible for BCMCS authentications authorizations and accounting and access the Subscriber Profile Database to obtain information from the BCMCS user profile.

The PDSN communicates using the unicast packet data service for packet data session establishment to add and remove IP flows etc. and acts as the first hop router for IP traffic to and from the mobile station MS . The BSN communicates with the BSC PCF to add and remove Multicast IP Flows. The BSN may use IP multicast protocols to manage bearers supporting Multicast IP Flow between itself and the nearest router connecting back to the BCMCS Content Server . It also applies the flow treatment received from the BCMCS Controller to the Multicast IP Flows. The multicast router MR is optional entity used if the content is transmitted over a provisioned tunnel between the BSN and the BCMCS Content Server . In this embodiment this entity is responsible for performing the BCMCS Information Acquisition BCMCS registration and receiving Multicast IP flows. The BSC PCF are responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels between the BSN and the MS . The BSC chooses the best bearer channel to the MS based on considerations such as optimization of resources required quality of service QoS etc.

The interface between BCMCS Controller and BSN via S AAA provides BCMCS session related information such as Flow Treatment e.g. Header Compression relevant QoS parameters such as required bandwidth the mapping between BCMCS Flow ID and Multicast IP address and port number from the BCMCS Controller to the BSN via a predefined protocol. This interface also exchanges the BCMCS authorization information for BCMCS registration. The interface between BSN and S AAA the BSN will typically generate accounting information for the content flows. And the interface between BCMCS Controller and SAAA. This interface provides the BCMCS Controller with authentication and authorization information. The S AAA may send BCMCS user profile received from the H AAA to the BCMCS Controller during BCMCS Information Acquisition triggered by the MS . The BCMCS Controller may also send accounting information to the S AAA . The S AAA may also be used to relay the BCMCS session related information between the BSN and BCMCS Controller .

The interface between BCMCS Controller and BCMCS Content Provider interface exchanges information including Content Provider Name Program Name session description e.g. codec type and security information etc. This interface may also exchange the start time of the BCMCS session and duration of the BCMCS session. The interface between BCMCS Controller and BCMCS Content Server may exchange the security information multicast IP Address and port number and content management information e.g. the start time of the BCMCS session and duration of the BCMCS session . The BCMCS Controller uses this interface to add modify or remove BCMCS flows and this interface also provides a mechanism for message authentication of the BCMCS Content Server and BCMCS controller and protects integrity of its messages.

The interface between BCMCS Controller and MS UIM provides the BCMCS client application in the MS with access to information about available BCMCS sessions typically including a Program Name BCMCS Flow ID s broadcast access key BAK s and BAK Expiry time if the Multicast IP Flow s are encrypted start time of the BCMCS session duration of the BCMCS session flow treatment e.g. header compression and session description e.g. 36 codec type etc. The PCF initiates setup of an A10 connection by sending an A11 Registration Request message to the PDSN . The A11 Registration Request message contains the extensions specified in the CDMA2000 standard. The A11 Registration Request message may be retransmitted a configurable number of times and if the connection setup request is acceptable the PDSN updates its binding record for the A10 connection by creating an association between the PDSN Session Identifier PDSN SID and the IMSI address PCF Address and PDSN Address information. The PDSN SID is identical to the PCF Session Identifier PCF SID . If the either the PCF or the PDSN does not support the appropriate Session Identifier Version the PDSN may choose any PDSN SID.

The PCF and the PDSN use the PCF IP Address and the PDSN IP Address returned in the A11 Registration Reply message as the A10 connection for the transport of user traffic. The PCF IP Address and the PDSN IP Address form the unique link layer ID for each A10 connection. The PCF and the PDSN maintain an association of the mobile s IMSI address with the A10 connection. The release of an A10 connection is typically controlled by the PCF however the PDSN can also initiate A10 connection release the PDSN can requests that the PCF release the connection.

The BSN sends the remote authentication dial in user service RADIUS Access Request message to the S AAA BCMCS Controller . The message includes the BCMCS FLOW ID Authorization Parameters and Reason Code. In this example the BSN sets Reason Code to to indicate both authorization and BSN session information are needed. The BCMCS Controller performs the authorization. Then the BCMCS Controller sends the RADIUS Access Accept message to the BSN including BCMCS session information. The BSN sends BC Service Response to the BSC PCF including BCMCS session information that the RAN needs. The RAN sends BC Registration Request to the BSN to set up a broadcast A10 connection. The BSN responds with BC Registration Response. The RAN sends Registration Accept to the MS . The BSN may send an A11 BC Registration Update message to the RAN in order to terminate the BCMCS flow s . If the mapping is pre provisioned information BCMCSFlowID multicast IP addr port at the BSN only the BC registration request and reply between the BSC PCF and BSN are necessary.

Typically the MS is allowed to send a BCMCS Flow Registration message around the time that the multicast flow BCMCS flow begins. If a BCMCS Flow Registration message is not received during the allowed registration period e.g. too early or too late the RAN generally ignores the registration. For some dynamic group communications however the start time of a flow is not known to the MS . For example the initiation of a PTT group call is random and not known to the MS in advance. The first multicast message of a PTT group call is typically a call announcement message that is sent by a PTT server to a plurality of group members e.g. wireless communication device and . If the broadcast A10 connection between the BSN and the base station is not open at the time of call announcement the message can be dropped or could be delayed. Therefore it is desirable to maintain a continuous broadcast A10 connection for such dynamic BCMCS flows all the time as long as at least one group member is present.

Otherwise if the registration is for the call announcement flow for a PTT group at decision then a determination is made as to whether the PTT group has any members registered at the communication control device as shown at decision . In this case the interface for the group should be already open and the RAN does not need to newly open an interface for the group. The RAN only needs to add the wireless communication device to the group member list of the group as shown at step . If there are no devices yet registered on the communication control device for that communication group then communication group for that wireless communication device is stored on a list at the communication control device as shown at step and then the interface is opened for the wireless communication device as shown at step .

After the interface such as a broadcast A10 interface is opened for the wireless communication device then a determination is made as to whether the wireless communication device has unregistered as shown at decision . If the wireless communication device has not unregistered at decision a wait state is entered and the interface remains open until the wireless communication device has unregistered. Once the wireless communication device has unregistered at decision then a determination is made as to whether there are any communication group members left for the communication group of that wireless communication device as shown at decision . If there are members of the communication group remaining registered then the process thread returns to decision to await another wireless communication device unregistering. Otherwise if no members of the communication group are registered on the list of the communication control device or if there was no communication group for the wireless communication device as could occur at decision at decision then the interface that was assigned to the wireless communication device and or the communication group is released as shown at step and then the process terminates as shown at termination .

It can thus be seen that system provides in one embodiment an inventive method for selectively maintaining an open interface to a communication control device that is controlling wireless communication to at least one of a plurality of wireless communication devices that are in a communication group PTT Group through registering at least one wireless communication device that is a member of a communication group PTT Group of wireless communication devices at the communication control device BSC PCF the at least one wireless communication device configured to receive group directed communications for the communication group and the at least one wireless communication device selectively becoming unregistered from the communication control device then establishing at least one interface between the communication control device and another computer device on the wireless communication network such as a broadcast A10 being established between BSC.PCF and BSN the at least one interface permitting delivery of a group directed communication e.g. PTT group call announcement to the at least one wireless communication device . Then maintaining the at least one interface while the at least one wireless communication device is registered with the communication control device.

In one embodiment the communication control device BSC PCF can further maintain a list of registered wireless communication devices and upon a wireless communication device being unregistered remove the unregistered wireless communication device from the list. The method can also further include releasing the at least one interface upon the wireless communication device becoming unregistered. Establishing at least one interface can occur upon a group directed communication directed to the at least one wireless communication device being received at the communication control device BSC PCF i.e. a incoming PTT call announcement is being sent to the wireless communication device . And if so embodied at least one wireless communication device can be placed on the list upon a group directed communication directed to the at least one wireless communication device being received at the communication control device BSC PCF . The establishment of at least one interface can establishing at least one interface such as a broadcast A10 interface for each registered wireless communication device .

Is so embodied the method can include determining if the communication group PTT Group for the registered wireless communication device is on the list and wherein maintaining at least one interface is maintaining at least one interface for a listed communication group as long at least one wireless communication device of the communication group PTT group is registered. Where the communication control device is a base station controller BSC and the other computer device is a broadcast serving node BSN establishing at least one interface can be establishing a broadcast A10 interface between the BSN and the BSC .

In view of the methods being executable on a mobile device and other computer platforms the method can accordingly be performed by a program resident in a computer readable medium where the program directs the mobile device or other computer device having a computer platform to perform the steps of the method. The computer readable medium can be the memory of the server or can be in a connective database. Further the computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless communications device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other storage media as is known in the art.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

