---

title: Framework for managing complex operations
abstract: An operations management environment is integrated with an information technology infrastructure through an adaptor, the integration occurring while the information technology infrastructure performs one or more tasks. Data from the information technology infrastructure is received through the adapter. Relationships between the artifacts included in the information technology infrastructure are modeled based on the received data. A proposed modification to the information technology infrastructure is determined based on an external change. While the information technology infrastructure performs the one or more tasks, the response of the artifacts to the proposed modification is simulated using the modeled relationships. The response of the artifacts is monitored to determine if the proposed modification implements the external change. A modification is generated based on the proposed modification if the proposed modification implements the external change, and the information technology infrastructure is updated while the information technology infrastructure performs the one or more tasks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08887123&OS=08887123&RS=08887123
owner: SAP SE
number: 08887123
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20080730
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 991 489 titled FRAMEWORK FOR MANAGING COMPLEX OPERATIONS and filed on Nov. 30 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This description relates to an operations management environment for non destructive monitoring modeling and updating of an information technology infrastructure.

Information technology infrastructures are complex systems that are often used to process and manage data. To process and manage the data an enterprise may use various applications information processes systems and other components which may be referred to as artifacts . Information technology infrastructures generally include a large number of artifacts having complex relationships with each other. The complexity of the relationships among the artifacts and the complexity of the operations used to manage and process the data may make updating the information technology infrastructure challenging.

In one general aspect an information technology infrastructure is non destructively updated using an operations management environment. An operations management environment is integrated with an information technology infrastructure through an adaptor the integration occurring while the information technology infrastructure performs one or more tasks. Data from the information technology infrastructure is received through the adapter. The data is generated by activity of artifacts included in the information technology infrastructure and the artifacts are configured to perform the one or more tasks. Relationships between the artifacts included in the information technology infrastructure are modeled based on the received data. A proposed modification to the information technology infrastructure is determined based on an external change. While the information technology infrastructure performs the one or more tasks the response of the artifacts to the proposed modification is simulated using the modeled relationships. The response of the artifacts is monitored to determine if the proposed modification implements the external change. A modification is generated based on the proposed modification if the proposed modification implements the external change and the information technology infrastructure is updated with the modification by pushing the modification through the adaptor while the information technology infrastructure performs the one or more tasks.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. Modeling the relationships between the artifacts included in the information technology infrastructure may include triggering events in one or more of the artifacts and the events may be associated with at least one context and the events may result from an activity the artifacts. Modeling the relationships between the artifacts also may include receiving data produced by the event aggregating the received data based on the at least one context associated with the data and determining relationships between the one or more of the artifacts based on the aggregated data. The relationships between the one or more artifacts may depend on the context. The context may include an interaction between the artifacts and a user that has a defined level of access to the artifacts. The artifacts may include a process implemented by the information technology infrastructure. The artifacts may include a sensor.

The modification may be a change to one or more existing tasks performed by the information technology infrastructure. The modification may be a new task. Relevant artifacts may be identified from among the artifacts included in the information technology infrastructure where the relevant artifacts may be artifacts capable of performing the modification. Identifying the artifacts included in the existing information technology infrastructure may include determining the capabilities of the artifacts. Updating the information technology infrastructure with the modification by pushing the modification through the adaptor may include pushing the modification only to the relevant artifacts. The external change may include a change in the operations of an enterprise associated with the information technology infrastructure.

In another general implementation a system for non destructively updating an information technology infrastructure includes an adaptor configured to be coupled to an information technology infrastructure and to exchange data with the information technology infrastructure. The system also includes an event module configured to trigger an occurrence in an information technology infrastructure where the occurrence is performed by artifacts included in the information technology infrastructure the occurrence creates data and the occurrence is associated with at least one context. The event model is also configured to aggregate the data created by the occurrence based on the at least one context. The system also includes a modeling module configured to model relationships between the artifacts included in the information technology infrastructure based on the obtained data and a simulator module configured to generate data and a data flow based on a proposed modification to the information technology infrastructure and test the proposed modification using the modeled relationships and the generated data while the information technology infrastructure continues to perform tasks. The system also includes an interface module configured to output the modeled relationships and receive input related to the proposed modification and the modeled relationships.

Implementations include one or more of the following features. The at least one context may include an interaction between the artifacts and a user that has a defined level of access to the artifacts. An event repository may be configured to store the aggregated data. The interface module may be configured to output data from the event repository.

Implementations of any of the techniques described above may include a method or process an apparatus or system or computer software on a computer accessible medium. The details of particular implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features will be apparent from the following description including the drawings and the claims.

The operation of an enterprise involves supporting many different business roles and entities within the enterprise as well as supporting extensive interactions with other enterprises. These business roles entities and interactions are associated with large amounts of data and information. Because the IT infrastructure includes artifacts used to support the operations of the enterprise the IT infrastructure tends to be complex and tends to have many inter related components. For example the IT infrastructure includes extensive and distributed business information complex business applications and systems such as Enterprise Resource Planning ERP systems Customer Relationship Management CRM Supply Chain Management SCM systems inventory management systems accounting systems and sales systems and business processes. The IT infrastructure includes processes and systems within the control of the enterprise as well as processes and systems not under the direct control of the enterprise. For example the supply chain management system may be associated with a first enterprise e.g. a retail store and the inventory management system may be associated with a second enterprise e.g. a manufacturer . Although under the control of different enterprises the supply chain management system and the inventory management system still exchange data.

The IT infrastructure also may include other devices that exchange data with the enterprise and or artifacts under the control of the enterprise. For example the IT infrastructure may include radio frequency identification RFID readers sensors and tracking devices. As a result of the complexity of the enterprise s operations the IT infrastructure also tends to be complex which may make observing managing and modifying the IT infrastructure without disrupting the IT infrastructure challenging.

The operations management environment allows the enterprise to model and visualize the relationships between the artifacts included in the IT infrastructure and to monitor the flow of operations implemented by the IT infrastructure . The operations management environment also allows the enterprise to simulate proposed modifications to one or more artifacts included in the IT infrastructure without interfering with the operations implemented by the IT infrastructure . The modifications may be proposed for example to accommodate changes in the business operations of the enterprise due to changes in laws globalization mergers and acquisitions corporate restructuring changes in supply of raw materials an increase in orders due to an expanding customer base and or outsourcing. The operations management environment also may be used to determine how the IT infrastructure responds to the addition removal upgrading or repositioning of artifacts included IT infrastructure .

The operations management environment allows the enterprise to test monitor and analyze the impact of the proposed modifications on the IT infrastructure through a simulator. Once it is determined that the proposed changes to the IT infrastructure implement the changes in the business operations properly the operations management environment updates the IT infrastructure by pushing the modification to the appropriate artifacts of the IT infrastructure through a message bus .

In greater detail and referring to an example system includes an operations management environment configured to non destructively model monitor and modify an IT infrastructure . The operations management environment allows modification to artifacts affected by the change in business operations by pushing modifications to the affected artifacts over a message bus . The operations management environment may be integrated with the IT infrastructure through an adaptor . The adaptor may be an application programming interface API .

The operations management environment includes a user interface and visualization component a simulator a data modeling and retrieving module an event administration and monitoring module a data analytics and reporting module and a process completion and execution module .

A user of the operations management environment interacts with the operations management system through the user interface and visualization component . The user interface and visualization component allows the user to view and create a data model of relationships between the artifacts included in the IT infrastructure and to retrieve data associated with the IT infrastructure such as data associated with the use of particular artifacts include in the IT infrastructure . The user interface and visualization component also allows the user compose new business processes and monitor the response of the IT infrastructure to the new business processes.

The simulator allows the operations management system to simulate the response of the IT infrastructure to a proposed change to one or more artifacts of the IT infrastructure without interfering with the ongoing processes of the IT infrastructure . The simulator generates data used to simulate the behavior of the IT infrastructure .

The operations management environment also includes a data modeling and retrieving module . The data modeling and retrieving module models relationships between artifacts included in the IT infrastructure . The data modeling and retrieving module defines categories of artifacts and the relationships between the artifacts within or across the categories. The module also defines the operations for obtaining information associated with the artifacts and the relationships among the artifacts. In general the data obtained by the module may be either static data or dynamic data. Dynamic data are the data generated during executions of applications or processes by the IT infrastructure . Dynamic data may be obtained by retrieving data created by executions of processes by artifacts in the IT infrastructure and from data pushed to the IT infrastructure .

The operations management environment also includes an event administration and monitoring module . The term event may refer to an occurrence triggered by the activity of for example one or more of the artifacts included in the IT infrastructure or any other occurrence in the IT infrastructure . Additionally or alternatively an event may be an occurrence in the operations management environment . For example an event may refer to a visit to a web page included in the enterprise s internal web site. In another example an event may refer to an activity of a sensor included in the IT infrastructure .

The event administration and monitoring module administers and monitors events. The module administers events by triggering the occurrence of events in the IT infrastructure . For example the event administration may cause a temperature sensor included in the IT infrastructure to report the temperature in the vicinity of the sensor. The module also monitors events by aggregating data associated with the triggered events. For example the event administration and monitoring module may aggregate data produced by the temperature sensor over a period of time. In some implementations events may be represented as software data packets that are received at the module from any number of artifacts included in the IT infrastructure . Data describing the event may be included as an event descriptor in the data packet received for the event. For example the event descriptor may include an identifier of the artifact that produced the event a time stamp an event type e.g. sensor temperature data an event source e.g. temperature sensor a location of the source event or other information.

In one specific example a temperature sensor may send an event of type temperature reading from a sensor located in a container abcd1234 used to transport perishable food items indicating that the temperature in the container abcd1234 was 28 F at 10 00 am Nov. 26 2007. 

The data associated with an event may be aggregated according to a context associated with an event. A context may be for example a time of day a geographic location an interaction with a particular user or category of user or a type of functionality associated with the artifact that produced the event. Additional examples of a context include linkages between web pages business flow data flow and control flow of services and or components. For example events may be aggregated based on an interaction between a particular category of employee of the enterprise such as sales personnel and or accounting personnel with a business process.

Aggregating events based on context allows the IT infrastructure to be analyzed from different perspectives. The term perspective may refer to a particular aspect of the performance of the IT infrastructure or any other performance metric. For example the perspective may be network security computational efficiency and or business flow efficiency. Thus the IT infrastructure and or the artifacts included in the IT infrastructure may be analyzed for example from a security standpoint an efficiency standpoint and or a data flow standpoint.

In one example the IT infrastructure may be analyzed from a security perspective. Although the enterprise s accounting personnel and sales force personnel both may have access to the IT infrastructure these groups tend to not have equal privileges to use and or access the artifacts of the IT infrastructure . For example accounting personal may have permission to use an internal web based application for updating data in the enterprise s accounts receivable database but accounting personnel may not have permission to use an internal web based application for updating information in an application that tracks sales orders. Thus by analyzing events such as visits to particular pages included in the enterprise s internal web site aggregated by employee category a user of the operations management environment may determine whether a change to the access permissions on the internal web site is needed based on whether the proper employees are accessing appropriate web sites by analyzing the behavior of the IT infrastructure from a security perspective.

In another example events may be analyzed from a data flow perspective. In this example the events occurring during a business process are analyzed to ensure that the events occur in a proper order. For example a specialty pet store orders one hundred pallets of gourmet cat food formulated for Siamese cats from the enterprise. The enterprise subsequently bills the pet store for the cat food order and enters the bill into an accounting system as part of accounts receivable. In this example the entry of the bill generates an event event A . The event A has a context associated with accounts receivable. When the pet store pays the bill the amount of payment is entered into the accounting system as a paid invoice. In this example the entry of the paid bill generates an event event B . The event B has a context associated with paid invoices. The proper data flow for this example is that amount of the invoice for the cat food order is entered into an accounting system as part of accounts receivable before the amount of the amount is entered in the accounting system as a paid invoice. By analyzing the events A and B data associated with events A and B and contexts associated with events A and B the user of the operations management environment may explore the system execution from the data flow perspective and determine that the accounting system is processing data in the proper order.

The data analytics and reporting module manages embedded analysis components and event triggers components both of which are discussed in more detail below. The data analytics and reporting module may create event filtering operations and push the filtering operations to the artifacts in the IT infrastructure. As discussed above an event may occur for example when an artifact included in the IT infrastructure executes an application a business process or when a particular interaction between a user and a process occurs. The operations management environment receives and monitors the events in order to analyze and model the behavior of the IT infrastructure . However because the IT infrastructure is large and complex a large number of events occur within the IT infrastructure which may make analyzing the events challenging. Thus the data analytics and reporting module may create event filters such that the operations management environment only receives events of interest.

Event filtering operations may be generated by the data analytics and reporting module to target the occurrence of certain events such that the operations management environment only monitors events of interest. In general event filters may be topic based rule based or classification based. Topic based event filters are filters that target events associated with particular subject matter or topic. For example a topic based event filter may filter events related to interactions with the enterprise s accounting system. Rule based filters are filters that screen events based on pre defined rules such as time of day that the event occurred. Classification based event filters filter events based on the event including certain categories types of data.

The data analytics and reporting module may push the event filters to the embedded analytics components which are generally distributed throughout the IT infrastructure or directly to artifacts included in the IT infrastructure . The event filters may be implemented as business logic. The data analytics and reporting module also may aggregate data associated with the events. As discussed below in some implementations the data associated with events may be collected by the embedded analytics components . In some implementations the data associated with events may be received directly from the artifacts included in the IT infrastructure .

The data analytics and reporting module also generates reports based on the aggregated data. The reports may be visualized using the user interface and visualization module and or the reports may be stored in a data repository for later analysis and or viewing. Additionally the logic for triggering events through the event triggers components may be pushed from the data analytics and reporting module .

The operations management environment also includes a process composition and execution module that composes and executes business processes. In general a business process refers to a formalized workflow or progression of tasks events that are designed to execute a complex task. The business process is performed by one or more artifacts included in the IT infrastructure . For example a business process implemented by a manufacturing enterprise may include scanning a product in a warehouse using an RFID reader to obtain an identifier of the product storing the identifier of the product in a database application of a warehouse management system and sharing the identifier of the product or some other indicator of inventory of the product within the warehouse with the supply chain management system of a retailer that offers the product for sale. The operations management system implements and modifies business processes through the process composition and execution module .

As discussed above the operations management environment allows the enterprise to model monitor and modify the IT infrastructure without interfering with the operation of the IT infrastructure e.g. non destructively . The IT infrastructure includes business application systems and other IT systems . The business application systems may include applications such as an accounting system a product lifecycle management PLM system a supply chain management SCM system a customer relationship management CRM system and an enterprise resource planning ERP system . In some implementations more or fewer applications may be included in the business applications systems . In some implementations more than one instance of a particular type of application may be included business applications systems . Additionally the business application systems may include other application systems used by the enterprise such as warehouse management applications intranets and internal enterprise web sites and database applications. The applications included in the business application systems may be applications associated with multiple enterprises and some of the applications included in the business application systems may be under the control of external enterprises.

The other IT systems may include devices and systems that obtain store information for use by the enterprise and or the business application systems . The other IT systems may exchange data and information with each other the enterprise and or the business application systems . The other IT systems may include mobile devices radio frequency identification RFID modules and sensors . The mobile devices may include for example cellular telephones personal digital assistants and or two way pagers. The RFID modules may include RFID tags that uniquely identify physical items in for example a warehouse and RFID readers that read the RFID tags. In some implementations the sensors may be biometric sensors such as fingerprint scanners pressure sensors moisture sensors and or ultrasonic sensors. In one example the sensors may include temperature sensors located on a truck or other vehicle that transports frozen food items from a manufacturer to a retail store. In this example the sensors may be configured by software that implements business logic that causes the sensors to issue an event message when the temperature in the truck has been above 1 C. about 30 F. for more than fifteen minutes during any twenty four hour period.

The business application systems and the other IT systems receive data from and transmit data to the operations management environment through communications links . The data may be received and transmitted in the form of a message a file a data packet an application or any other form of data. The data may be business logic implemented as an executable application or the data may be information included in the file or message. In general the operations management environment implements modifications to the IT infrastructure by pushing data to appropriate artifacts of the IT infrastructure . Continuing the above example sensors may be temperature sensors configured to issue an event message when the sensors measure a temperature above 1 C. about 30 F. for more than fifteen minutes during any twenty four hour period. A change in business operations may necessitate configuring the sensors such that the sensors issue an event when the sensors measure a temperature above 1 C. about 30 F. for more than fifteen minutes during any twenty four hour period. The operations management environment may implement this configuration change by for example pushing business logic to the sensors so that the sensors issue an event when the sensors measure a temperature above 1 C. about 30 F. for more than fifteen minutes during any twenty four hour period.

The system also includes an event triggers component . The event triggers component allows the operations management environment to monitor the execution of a particular business process by selectively triggering particular operations within the IT infrastructure . The event triggers component interacts with the event administering and monitoring module to trigger events in the IT infrastructure . Because the number of business processes included in the IT infrastructure is large monitoring all of the business processes at once may be computationally expensive. The event triggers component allows the user to execute those business processes that are of interest to be executed and monitored. In some implementations the event triggers component may be implemented as a plug in to any artifact in the IT infrastructure .

The system also includes an embedded analysis components . The embedded analysis components may be distributed throughout the IT infrastructure by implementing the analysis components in one or more of the artifacts included in the IT infrastructure . Because of the complexity and vast scope of the artifacts included in the IT infrastructure a vast amount of data is produced by monitoring modifying and testing the IT infrastructure . Transmitting the data to a central repository and storing and analyzing the data at the central repository may be computationally expensive. Thus distributing the embedded analysis components throughout the IT infrastructure may improve computational efficiency. The embedded analysis components may store and analyze data collected from the applications and or devices in which the components are located. The embedded analysis components also may receive modifications to their respective application and or devices from the operations management environment and distribute the modifications to the appropriate application and or devices.

In some implementations the embedded analysis component may be implemented as a plug in to one or more artifacts included in the IT infrastructure . Through the plug in data associated with the artifacts may be collected pre processed aggregated and communicated to the operations management environment . The event monitoring module and the data analytics module may further process the data communicated to the operations management environment by the plug in. The modules and also may produce reports based on the received data. These reports may be viewed using the user interface and visualization module and or the reports may be stored in a repository for later analysis and browsing.

The system also includes a data repository . The data repository may store data collected from the IT infrastructure and reports based on the data. The system may include more than one data repository . The data repository may be integrated with one or more of the business applications systems and the other IT systems . The data repository may be a centralized data repository that exchanges data with and stores data from the IT infrastructure .

Referring to an example process models monitors and updates an IT infrastructure to accommodate a change in the operations of an enterprise. The IT infrastructure may be for example the IT infrastructure or discussed above. The process may be executed by one or more processors included an operations management environment such as the operations management environment or discussed above.

An operations management environment is integrated with the IT infrastructure . The operations management environment may be integrated with the IT infrastructure through an adaptor . The adaptor may be an API that provides an interface between the operations management environment and the IT infrastructure . In general the adaptor allows the operations management environment and the IT infrastructure to communicate without affecting the configuration and execution of tasks implemented by the IT infrastructure . Thus although the adaptor integrates the operations management environment with the IT infrastructure the operations management environment may be removed from the IT infrastructure without disrupting the IT infrastructure .

In some implementations the adaptor allows the operations management environment to communicate and exchange data with the IT infrastructure through a bi directional message bus. The bi directional message bus may be the message bus . For example in some implementations the operations management environment may communicate to the various artifacts included in the IT infrastructure through a publish and subscribe model in which messages are pushed from the operations management environment to the message bus and then pushed to the appropriate artifacts of the IT infrastructure . The adaptor also includes functions or applications configured to modify rules for event handling within the IT infrastructure add new analytical operations and integrate the adaptor with the IT infrastructure .

The IT infrastructure is analyzed using the operations management environment and the IT infrastructure is modeled based on the analysis . In particular relationships between the artifacts in the IT infrastructure are determined. The analysis and modeling may be performed by for example the data modeling and retrieving module discussed above. The model may be based on static relationships between the artifacts of the IT infrastructure . Static relationships may be relationships between processes and systems employee s roles and processes relationships between database tables and business processes and relationships between object classes. Static relationships are relationships that do not change over time. Additionally or alternatively the model may be based on run time or dynamic relationships between the artifacts of the IT infrastructure . Dynamic relationships change over time. For example run time relationships may be relationships between users interactions and business process instances and between triggered events and business process instances. Both the static and dynamic relationships may be relationships that are completely within the enterprise or relationships that span multiple enterprises.

A framework for a model describing relationships between multiple sets of artifacts may be described by Equations 1 to 7 below M N R 1 N N N . . . N . . . N 2 R R R . . . R . . . R 3 N d n n . . . n op op . . . op c c . . . c 4 R dr r . . . r op op . . . op c c . . . c 5 d s S S . . . S 6 d s N N . . . N. 7 

In Equations 1 to 7 M is a model that includes a set of nodes N and a set of relationships R between the nodes. The set of nodes may be expressed as N N N . . . N . . . N and the set of relationships may be expressed as R R . . . R . . . R . A node model includes a definition d the node elements n n . . . n operations op op . . . op and constraints c c . . . c. The definition includes a data schema definition sand the sources S S . . . S from which the node elements of the node set are extracted. The sources may be for example a system a database table and or a process. The operations include the basic services for handling the node elements and the constraints define conditions and restrictions for these operations. A relation model is similar to the one for a node model. In a relation model the relationships are extracted from the node sets rather than the sources directly. A model structure is defined as the model mechanism described above without the node elements and relation elements.

In one example an application may be modeled using the above framework. The modeling may be implemented in software or hardware. The application includes functions but the enterprise wants to add the context of libraries which includes functions to the software application. In this example the functions act as nodes and calls between the functions act as relationships between the nodes. Additionally the enterprise wants to add functions to the libraries with the constraint that the functions be placed in the libraries in the most efficient manner possible. Thus the model has a constraint that the functions be allocated among the libraries such that function calls between libraries are maximized while function calls between functions are minimized.

Additionally the model may be interactively built by a user or automatically by the system. In general two levels of modeling may be supported. The first allows a user or the system to add a new context or expand an existing context. The second allows the user or the system to add a new context schema or modify a context schema. Continuing with the above example adding libraries to the application program adds a new context. Subsequently adding additional libraries expands an existing context e.g. the existing context of libraries .

Although the above example relates to an application in other examples more complex processes and systems may be modeled using the same approach. Thus using the example process a user or a system is able to expand a context or add a new context to the model as the IT infrastructure is running. Additionally the user or the system may define the elements for the model at run time. The model of the relationships among the artifacts of the IT infrastructure may be visualized using a user interface such as the user interface and visualization module discussed above with respect to . Continuing the above example the calls between the functions may be visualized through the user interface.

Accordingly a user of the operations management environment may visually navigate through the IT infrastructure using the model. Referring briefly to the visualization module may display the model through graph based displays and . Multiple node sets and relation sets may be displayed in the same view. Additionally the user may include or remove node sets or relation sets from the display.

Returning to modification or supplementation of the IT infrastructure is determined based on the model . The model may be used to determine how to modify the IT infrastructure e.g. make a change to an existing process or system or how to supplement e.g. add additional functionality to the IT infrastructure in order to accommodate a change in the operations of the enterprise. Because the operations of the enterprise are intertwined with and implemented by the IT infrastructure some of the artifacts of the IT infrastructure may be modified to update the artifacts in accordance with the change. The change in operation of the enterprise may be a result of forces beyond the control of the enterprise such as a change in the laws of a jurisdiction in which the enterprise operates. For example the jurisdiction may change its tax and compliance laws thus requiring the enterprise to update the enterprise s accounting and financial systems. In another example the business operations of the enterprise may change as a result of a merger or acquisition or a decrease in the supply of a raw material used in the enterprise s manufacturing processes.

In one example a change in business operations may result from a change in the laws regulating the transportation and storage of perishable items in a jurisdiction in which the enterprise conducts business. In this example the law is changed such that any storage unit used to transport or store frozen food may not be above 1 C. about 30 F. for more than ten minutes out of any twenty four hour period. The operations of the enterprise may include the transportation and storage of frozen foods. Thus the enterprise may monitor the temperature of the frozen food storage units on trains trucks and in warehouses through temperature and moisture sensors that communicate environmental data to the enterprise. The temperature and moisture sensors may be sensors such as the sensors discussed with respect to .

The change in the law regulating the shipping and storage of frozen foods may require that the enterprise s warehouse application and supply chain applications be updated such that the appropriate data is collected and analyzed from the sensors to ensure that the enterprise is complying with the new law and to provide sufficient data to show compliance with the new law. However the change in the laws regulating the transportation and storage of perishable items may leave many of the artifacts of the IT infrastructure unaffected. Thus identification of the affected artifacts using the model generated in may make the updating process more efficient by targeting for updating only those artifacts that are affected by the new law.

Once the model is generated the operations management environment may determine which artifacts of the IT infrastructure need to be updated to accommodate the change in the law by identifying which functions applications and processes need to be modified to accommodate the change in the law. Using the operations management environment message events may be triggered using the event administering and monitoring module to identify which artifacts in the IT infrastructure are using the affected functions applications and processes. The message events may be triggers generated by the event triggers that cause the artifacts to execute the application and report the results to the operations management environment. Thus the affected artifacts may be identified by selectively triggering certain processes rather than monitoring all events produced by all activity of all of the artifacts in the IT infrastructure . The affected artifacts may be referred to as relevant artifacts. This technique may result in improved computational efficiency resulting from having to execute fewer applications and receiving a smaller volume of data from the IT infrastructure to analyze.

A proposed modification to the IT infrastructure may be determined based on the identification of the relevant artifacts . Continuing the above example the proposed modification may be business logic implemented in an application that causes temperature sensors located in frozen food storage units to issue an event when the temperature in the storage unit exceeds 30 F. for more than ten minutes out of a twenty four hour period. The proposed modification may be simulated . The simulation may be performed by the simulator module discussed above with respect to . The simulation module may create data to simulate conditions under which the sensor should issue an event and monitor the behavior of the IT infrastructure as it processes the data. The results are used to determine whether the sensor issues an event under the appropriate conditions.

Whether the proposed modification is acceptable is determined . For example if the temperature sensors issue an event when presented with simulated data indicating that the temperature is above exceeds 1 C. about 30 F. for more than ten minutes out of a twenty four hour period the proposed modification is acceptable. Thus a proposed modification to the IT infrastructure that is consistent with the change in the business process is acceptable. If the change is determined to be acceptable a modification to the IT infrastructure based on the proposed modification is pushed to the appropriate artifacts . Continuing the example above business logic implemented as instructions may be pushed from the operations management environment through the message bus to temperature sensors that monitor frozen food storage units. The instructions may be stored on a computer readable medium included in the sensor and executed by a processor in the sensor. If the proposed modification is not acceptable the example process returns to . Thus the example process may be iterated until an acceptable proposed modification is determined.

Referring to an illustration of a system shows an example of an operations management environment used to model monitor manage and update a web server . The web server may be included in an IT infrastructure such as the IT infrastructure discussed with respect to .

In the example shown in the web server supports an internal enterprise web site that includes many thousands of individual web pages. Because the web site includes many thousands of individual web pages and is used frequently by members of the enterprise for a variety of tasks determining usage patterns and updating the web site may be challenging. In this example the operations management environment models the relationships among the web pages included in the enterprise s web site manages the web site and updates the web server . The relationships between the web pages included in the enterprise s internal web site may be determined. The relationships between the web pages and the interactions with the web pages may be visualized using graph based displays and generated by the user interface and visualization module . In this example the graph based display shows the number of times a particular web page has been visited. The graph based display shows a representation of the logical relationship between some or all of the web pages that make up the web site.

The operations management environment may for example monitor visits to the web pages monitor the behavior of the visitors to the web site e.g. track the visitor s selections on the web page and time spent on the web page discover broken links discover orphan pages e.g. web pages that have no or few visitors determine whether only visitors with appropriate privileges are able to access restricted web pages and or determine the popularity of particular web pages.

Similar to data analytics and reporting module discussed above the data analytics and reporting module creates event filtering operations that are pushed to the web server . In this example an event may be an interaction between a user and a web page such as a user visiting the web page. The event filtering operation may specify that only visits made to certain pages be reported.

Referring to logical relationships between eight web pages included in the internal web site are illustrated. shows an example in which screen shots of the web pages are shown and shows an example in which alternate representations of the web pages are shown. The logical relationships between the web pages may be derived by for example analyzing the links included in the pages . Although eight web pages are shown in the illustration the enterprise s web site typically includes many thousands of web pages. In the illustration shown the web site is modeled with the web pages acting as the nodes and the links between the pages determining the relationships between the pages.

Referring to an event record includes data associated with events received by the operations management environment . In this example an event is generated when a user visits one of the web pages included in the enterprise s internal web site . In this example the event record includes an event identifier Event ID that identifies the event an identifier of the web page Page ID a time stamp indicating when the event occurred and a user identifier that identifies the user whose visit to the web page identified by the Page ID generated the event. The event record may be stored in the event repository .

The events may be visualized using the graph based display . The graph based display shows a bar chart representing the number of visits to each of the web pages . The graph based display may be shown by the user interface and visualization module . The graph based display provides dynamic visualization of the web site because the graph based display combines past events which may be stored in the event repository with events received and updates the graph based display concurrently or shortly after with receiving the events. In the example shown rather than receiving an event every time any web page included in the web site is visited only visits to the web pages are received. The graph based display allows the user of the operations management environment to analyze and explore the behavior of the web site . For example the user may note that there have been no visits to the web page corresponding to the Page ID 0005 and there have been few visits to the web page corresponding to the Page ID 0004. 

The graph based display shows a representation of the relationships between the web pages included in the web site. The graph based display allows the user of the operations management environment to further explore the web site. The nodes such as node represent web pages in the graph based display and the relationships such as relationship represent links between the web pages. Selecting a node results in visiting the web page associated with the node.

For example to investigate the low number of visits to the web pages 0004 and 0005 the user of the operations management environment may visit the web page by selecting the node corresponding to that web page. Visiting the page may help the user determine the reason for the low number of visits. For example the page might not include any links or content of interest. Additionally the operations management environment may allow the user to simulate visits to web pages that are linked to the web pages 0004 and 0005 to determine whether an existing link is broken and needs to be updated. If there is a broken link the user may simulate replacing the broken link using the simulator module . The operations management environment may monitor the events generated by replacing the link and the graph based display may be updated accordingly. Thus the operations management environment may be used to determine whether the cause of a low number of visits is a broken link and if so how to repair the link.

Additionally the model may be expanded dynamically. For example the context may be expanded by adding a new link to a web page which would result in an additional node and link on the graph based display . The context may be expanded either by a user of the operations management environment or autonomously by the system. The context may be expanded while the IT infrastructure is running e.g. performing tasks and or while the operations management environment is running.

Referring to an example process monitors and provides information about a web site. Interactions with web pages are reported through events . The events may be a visit to the web page by a user. Existing data related to the web pages is updated based on the events . For example the existing data may include the number of visits to each web page over a certain period of time. The existing data may be updated with the received data and displayed in an interface . For example the data may be displayed as the graph based displays and through the user interface and visualization module . Input related to a web page may be received 740 . For example a selection of a node which represents a web page may be received through the graph based display . As discussed above selection of the node allows the user to interactively explore the web site.

As discussed above an operations management environment such as the operations management environments and is a separated and independent environment that may be integrated with and later removed from an existing IT infrastructure such as the IT infrastructure and . New operations may be developed and tested without the change of existing IT Infrastructure. After the modified operations or new operations are tested by the operations management environment the operations management environment may assist in identifying the appropriate artifacts and to make corresponding changes to the appropriate artifacts such that the modification is implemented.

The artifacts in the existing IT infrastructure may send out their execution information by triggering events. Through a global and generic configuration the events can be triggered. The operation management environment associates events with a context. Through this approach the artifacts of the existing IT infrastructure do not to do experience any change but the monitoring and processing supports a specific domain context.

The operations management environment provides a mechanism to model the capability and the interests of the artifacts. Once the operations management environment tests the proposed operations by matching the capability and interests business operation management can push the operations into the appropriate artifacts. The operations also may be referred to as rules. The operations management environment supports a flexible and extensible modeling mechanism to model complex context.

The memory stores information within the system . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In another implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit. In still another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the system . In one implementation the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device.

For example the operations management environment and the modules discussed previously with respect to may include the processor executing computer instructions that are stored in one of memory and storage device .

The input output device provides input output operations for the system . In one implementation the input output device includes a keyboard and or pointing device. In another implementation the input output device includes a display unit for displaying graphical user interface as discussed above.

The techniques can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The techniques can be implemented as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device in machine readable storage medium in a computer readable storage device in computer readable storage medium or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Method steps of the techniques can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions of the techniques by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps can also be performed by and apparatus of the techniques can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data such as magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

A number of implementations of the techniques have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claims. For example useful results still could be achieved if steps of the disclosed techniques were performed in a different order and or if components in the disclosed systems were combined in a different manner and or replaced or supplemented by other components. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

