---

title: Combined web browsing and searching
abstract: Context information for a user of a device is identified and is used to identify a set of keywords based at least in part on a current Web page being displayed and one or more previous Web pages displayed for the user. The set of keywords and/or information regarding previous searches are used to identify a set of query terms. The set of query terms are displayed as part of a user interface. Additionally, a user selection of a search preview option can be received while displaying a Web page. In response to receiving the user selection of the search preview option, a user-entered query term is sent to a search engine. Search results based on the query term are received from the search engine, and both the search results and the Web page are displayed concurrently in a same window.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08150869&OS=08150869&RS=08150869
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08150869
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080317
---
The use of the Internet and World Wide Web or simply the Web has become commonplace throughout the world. Information is typically made available to users via Web pages that are retrieved from servers on the Internet and displayed on the users computers. Two general paradigms are typically followed for users obtaining Web pages. The first paradigm is a search paradigm in which the user enters one or more search terms and a search engine returns a list of Web pages that satisfy those search terms. The second paradigm is a browsing paradigm in which the user selects a link on one Web page that identifies a second Web page and causes the second Web page to be displayed in place of the first Web page. These two paradigms however can be difficult for users because users oftentimes are required to switch back and forth between the two paradigms to find relevant information to fulfill their needs. Such switching can be problematic for example because users may lose their search location when they switch to browsing or lose their browse location when they switch to searching.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In accordance with one or more aspects context information for a user of a device is identified and is used to identify a set of keywords based at least in part on a current Web page being displayed and one or more previous Web pages displayed for the user. The set of keywords is used to identify a set of query terms and the identified set of query terms are displayed as part of a user interface of the device.

In accordance with one or more aspects a user selection of a search preview option is received while a display device is displaying a Web page. In response to receiving the user selection of the search preview option a user entered query term is sent to a search engine. Search results based on the query term are received from the search engine and both the search results and the Web page are displayed concurrently in a same window being displayed by the display device.

Combined web browsing and searching is discussed herein. While browsing Web pages a search box is displayed to the user. A set of query terms are made available for selection by the user such as via a drop down menu associated with the search box. The set of query terms is automatically determined based at least in part on context information for the user and or information regarding previous searches. This context information can include for example information regarding a Web page currently displayed information regarding Web pages previously displayed information regarding a link selected by a user to navigate from one page to another and so forth. Once a query term is entered in the search box whether by selection from the set of displayed query terms or by other input mechanisms the user can select to search for the query term. If requested by the user the search results are displayed using a preview mode in which the Web page currently being browsed by the user is displayed as one part of the Web page and the search results are displayed as another part of the Web page.

Computing device can be any of a variety of devices capable of displaying Web pages. For example computing device can be a desktop computer a mobile station an entertainment appliance a set top box communicatively coupled to a display device a wireless phone a game console an automotive computer and so forth. Thus computing device may range from a full resource device with substantial memory and processor resources e.g. personal computers game consoles to a low resource device with limited memory and or processing resources e.g. traditional set top boxes hand held game consoles .

Servers can be any of a variety of different computing devices capable of hosting Web pages that can be retrieved and displayed by a Web browser of computing device . Similar to the discussion of computing device servers can be any of a variety of different devices ranging from full resource devices with substantial memory and processor resources to a low resource device with limited memory and or processing resources.

Search engine is one or more components that return search results in response to search requests. Search engine can be implemented on any of a variety of different computing devices analogous to devices capable of generating search results. Although a single search engine is illustrated in alternatively multiple search engines can be included in system .

Search engine can be a search engine for the Web or for a particular Web site. In situations where search engine is a search engine for the Web search engine typically includes or has access to a database of Web pages accessible via network that have been indexed by search engine . In response to a search request this database is searched to identify one or more Web pages accessible via network that satisfy the query term of the search request.

In situations where search engine is a search engine for a Web site search engine typically includes or has access to a database of Web pages that are included in the Web site. In response to a search request this database is searched to identify one or more Web pages that are included in the Web site and that satisfy the query terms of the search request. Search engines and the generation of search results are well known to those skilled in the art and thus will not be discussed further except as they pertain to the combined web browsing and searching discussed herein.

Computing device includes Web browser having a query term generation module and a user interface UI display module . Query term generation module generates a set of query terms for display in a drop down menu associated with a search box. The set of query terms is automatically determined based at least in part on context information for the user and or information regarding previous searches and navigation behavior. UI display module generates a UI display for Web browser including a search box and corresponding drop down menu that includes the set of query terms and a preview mode in which the Web page currently being browsed by the user is displayed in one portion of the Web browser window and the search results are displayed in another portion of the Web browser window. The generation of the set of query terms and the UI display are discussed in more detail below.

Query term generation module generates a set of query terms for display in a drop down menu associated with a search box. Generally a set of query words or keywords is generated based on context information such as a current location of system information regarding a Web page currently being displayed by system information regarding Web pages previously displayed by system information regarding a browsing pattern of a user of system and so forth. From this set of keywords a set of query terms is generated using information regarding current popular searches by other users. Alternatively other information can also be used in generating the set of query terms such as any previous searches made by the user any previous Web pages browsed to by the user and so forth. The searching and browsing paradigms are combined by providing query terms for searching based at least in part on Web pages being browsed to by the user.

UI display module generates a user interface including a search box and a corresponding drop down menu that includes the set of query terms generated by query term generation module . UI display module also supports multiple different modes in which search results can be displayed to a user. One display mode supported by module is a preview mode in which the Web page currently being browsed by the user is displayed as one part of the Web page and the search results are displayed as another part of the Web page. In one or more embodiments this display mode may appear to the user as the Web browser having two different portions one in which the Web page is displayed and another in which the search results are displayed. However this appearance is typically created by having a Web page include and display both of these parts rather than altering the Web browser to accommodate two such portions. Alternatively the Web browser could support two such separate portions.

Selection of a button or other portion of a UI being displayed is discussed herein. Such a selection can be made in any of a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments a selection is made by maneuvering a cursor over the button or other portion and activating a button on a cursor control device e.g. clicking a mouse button . Alternatively directional keys or a tab key on a keyboard can be used to cycle through different portions e.g. different buttons and the portions can be changed e.g. highlighted to show when they are being selected. An enter key can optionally be used to select a particular one of those portions. Alternatively other selection mechanisms can be used such as function keys particular alphanumeric key sequences and so forth.

Also illustrated in display is a cursor . Cursor can take any of a variety of forms and can be moved around display using any of a variety of different cursor control devices. The user can move cursor around window and select a particular portion e.g. a button in search options a link in Web page etc. using the cursor control device e.g. clicking a mouse button pressing an enter or select button and so forth . A particular portion can also be selected by moving a cursor over the particular portion and leaving the cursor over that particular portion for an amount of time also referred to as hovering . Cursors and cursor control devices are well known to those skilled in the art and thus will not be discussed further.

Search options also referred to as tools or components are identified within a dashed box in and include a search box a search site button a search web button a search preview button and a query term drop down menu . In the example of search options are illustrated as part of Web page and separate from any toolbar or menu of browser window . Alternatively search options could be included in a toolbar of browser window .

Search box is a data entry box via which a user can enter one or more query terms. The query terms can be entered in search box in different manners. The user can enter query terms manually such as by using a keyboard or other data entry device allowing the user to type write or otherwise identify particular words or alphanumeric sequences that are to be the query terms.

The user can also use query term drop down menu to enter query terms. Drop down menu can be selected by the user in different manners such as hovering cursor over a portion of menu selecting a drop down arrow in menu and so forth. Drop down menu includes one or more query terms that are generated by a query term generation module such as of . The query terms in drop down menu are terms that the query term generation module automatically determines as being likely terms that the user would want to search for. In one or more embodiments the one of those terms that is determined to be the term that the user is most likely to want to search for is displayed in menu even when menu has not been selected. In the example of this most likely query term is party planner checklist .

In one or more embodiments search options are dynamically inserted into Web page so both Web page and search options are displayed in Web browser window . In such embodiments code e.g. HyperText Markup Language HTML code and or scripts are added to Web page so that search options are displayed when Web page is displayed. This code or scripts can be added in any of a variety manners such as using Dynamic HTML DHTML technologies Asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX technologies and so forth.

In alternate embodiments rather than dynamically inserting the search options into Web page the Web browser can display Web browser window having two separate portions. Search options are displayed in one of these two portions and Web page is displayed in the other of these two portions. In such embodiments no additional code need be added to Web page in order for search options to be displayed.

Display however illustrates drop down menu in expanded form after having been selected by a user. Several additional query terms are displayed in the drop down menu these being additional query terms that the query term generation module determines as being likely terms that the user would want to search for. The query terms can be organized in drop down menu in different manners such as in accordance with how likely the query term generation module determines the user would want to search for the query terms e.g. more likely terms being listed at the top of the list alphabetically randomly and so forth. In the example of the additional query terms are party planner checklist party planner party checklist party planner checklist and entertaining secret hosting party.

Different query terms can be included in drop down menu based on context information information regarding Web page one or more logs of query terms entered by other users on other systems and so forth. The manner in which the query term generation module determines the query terms for the query term drop down menu is discussed in more detail below.

Returning to the user can select any of the query terms from drop down menu . This selection can be performed in different manners such as hovering cursor over one of the query terms maneuvering cursor over a query term and clicking on a button of a cursor control device and so forth. Drop down menu corresponds to search box so once a query term is selected from drop down menu the selected query term is entered into search box . This selected query term is thus displayed in search box .

Regardless of how the query term is entered in search box once the query term is entered in search box the user can select one of search site button search web button and search preview button . In response to user selection of search site button the query terms entered in search box are input to a search engine that searches the Web site that includes Web page for the query terms. A new Web page is then displayed replacing Web page that includes the search results from the search engine. In one or more embodiments search options are displayed on the new Web page with the search results although alternatively search options may not be displayed.

In response to user selection of search web button the query terms entered in search box are input to a search engine that searches the Web for the query terms. A new Web page is then displayed analogous to that of when the search site button is selected although the search results will typically be different . Alternatively other search scope buttons can be used in addition to and or in place of search web button and search site button such as a button to search a particular department a button to search a particular category and so forth.

In response to user selection of search preview button the query terms entered in search box are input to a search engine that returns search results. Whether the search engine searches the Web or just the Web site that includes Web page can be determined in different manners. For example button can be associated with only searching a Web site or alternatively only searching the Web button can default to searching one of the Web or the Web site a user preference can be set by the user indicating whether to search the Web or the Web site the user can concurrently select one of buttons and along with button to indicate whether to search the Web or the Web site two different buttons can be displayed e.g. a search preview button for searching the Web and a search preview button for searching the Web site and so forth.

In response to user selection of preview button the search results that are returned by the search engine in response to user selection of preview button are displayed in Web browser window concurrently with Web page rather than replacing Web page . In one or more embodiments the search results are dynamically inserted into Web page so both the Web page and the search results are displayed in Web browser window . In such embodiments code e.g. HyperText Markup Language HTML code is added to Web page so that the search results are displayed when Web page is displayed. This code can be added in any of a variety manners such as using Dynamic HTML DHTML technologies Asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX technologies and so forth.

In alternate embodiments rather than dynamically inserting the search results in to Web page the Web browser can display Web browser window having two separate portions. The search results are displayed in one of these two portions and the Web page is displayed in the other of these two portions. In such embodiments no additional code need be added to the Web page in order for the search results to be displayed.

Search results are the search results returned by the search engine in response to a search preview button having been selected e.g. button of . The search results are illustrated as including a link to a Web page e.g. Result 1 Link Result 2 Link etc. as well as some text illustrated as horizontal lines that describe the Web page. The data illustrated as search results can take any of a variety of forms. For example images can be displayed in addition to or in place of text images can be displayed as the links videos can be displayed in addition to or in place of text or as the links a portion of the Web page that includes the query term can be displayed as the text a summary of the Web page can be displayed as the text and so forth.

Search options are also displayed as being included in the same portion as search results . Alternatively search options can be included in the same portion as Web page or may not be displayed in window . In the example of the query term s in the query term drop down menu of search options has changed in response to the user selection of the search preview button. This change is made as a result of new query terms having been searched on when the user selected the search preview button.

The user can select one of the links in search results in response to which the two portions displayed in window are replaced with a single portion that includes the Web page e.g. analogous to although the Web page being displayed would be different . Search options would be included with this Web page display and the query terms in the query term drop down menu are optionally updated to reflect the new context due to the new Web page being displayed.

Additionally rather than selecting a link in search results the user can input new query terms in the search box displayed in window of display and select the search preview button. In response a new search is performed and the results are displayed as search results . This allows the user to repeatedly enter new query terms and have a preview display of new search results displayed concurrently with the current Web page .

Furthermore in one or more embodiments the user can exit out of the concurrent search results and Web page display of . After exiting the two portions of the Web page are replaced with a single portion that includes Web page analogous to . Alternatively after exiting the two portions of the Web page displayed in window can be replaced with a single portion that includes search results and optionally search options . This exiting from the concurrent search results and Web page display can be accomplished in different manners such as by selecting an exit or close option displayed in window e.g. in search results by selecting an exit or close button or key on a keyboard or other input device and so forth.

As can be seen from both the current Web page and the search results are displayed concurrently in the same window . This combines the searching and browsing paradigms by allowing the user to view Web pages and search results concurrently.

The combined web browsing and searching are discussed herein with reference to query terms being displayed in a drop down menu. It is to be appreciated however that the use of a drop down menu is only one example user interface for displaying the query terms. The query terms can alternatively be displayed in different manners such as a list of query terms separated by commas a list of query terms separated by spaces or any other technique for displaying the different query terms.

Returning to UI display module generates a UI display including a search box and a corresponding query term drop down menu and also supports multiple different modes in which search results can be displayed to a user. UI display module includes query term renderer context gatherer and search previewer .

Query term renderer obtains the query terms to be included in the query term drop down menu from query term generation module . Renderer then displays the query term drop down menu including these obtained query terms. Renderer obtains new query terms from query term generation module each time a new search is requested by the user e.g. by selection of a search site button a search web button or a search preview button . Additionally the context information gathered by context gatherer changes each time a different Web page is browsed to or navigated to by the user so renderer obtains new query terms from query term generation module each time a different Web page is browsed to or navigated to by the user.

In one or more embodiments the query term drop down menu is displayed as is the search box and buttons of the search options illustrated in and for each Web page. UI display module and query term generation module are implemented as part of a Web browser e.g. Web browser of and thus can insert the search options including the query term drop down menu on each Web page. Alternatively UI display module and query term generation module can be implemented as part of a Web page and thus are displayed only for Web pages that include modules and .

Context gatherer collects and maintains context information regarding the user of system to be used to generate the query terms. The context information maintained by context gatherer is passed to query term generation module for generation of the query terms. Context gatherer can pass the context information to query term generation module in different manners. In one or more embodiments context gatherer generates a cookie that is stored in system and can be read when the next Web page is accessed for display by system . Alternatively the context information can be passed in different manners such as by invoking one or more application programming interfaces APIs exposed by query term generation module by invoking other processes or functions of module and so forth.

The context information maintained by context gatherer is context information for a user of system . Any information regarding the user s browsing and or searching can be maintained as context information by gatherer . Examples of context information include browse context and history location information page analysis and or scraping previous queries and so forth. The context information is used by context processor to select particular keywords as discussed in more detail below.

The browse context and history context information refers to the current Web page and the previous Web pages if any that the user has browsed to during the current Web browsing session. A Web browsing session or browsing session refers to the running of a Web browser application that displays a browser window e.g. window of and . A new browsing session begins each time the Web browser e.g. browser of begins running after a browsing session becomes stale e.g. after a threshold amount of time such as 20 30 minutes with no user inputs to the Web browser and so forth. In situations where multiple instances of a Web browser are running concurrently each instance is considered a separate browsing session.

The browse context and history context information can include keywords from the URL Uniform Resource Locator of the current and or previous Web pages accessed e.g. browsed to or navigated to as a result of a search by the user. The browse context and history can also include keywords from a link in a Web page that was selected by the user e.g. if a link to local auto dealers was selected by the user the words local auto and dealers can be included in the browse context and history . The keywords refer to the words that represent substantive information. For example a the to and for and so forth typically referred to as noise words do not typically represent substantive information and thus would not be included as keywords. The specific identification of which words are keywords and which words are not keywords can vary by implementation and on the desires of the system designer. Alternatively the browse context and history gathered by context gatherer can be all words e.g. from the URL from links etc. rather than just the keywords and keyword extractor can extract the keywords as discussed in more detail below.

The location information context information refers to the current geographical location of the system in which the combined web browsing and searching is implemented. This location can be determined in any of a variety of different manners. For example the IP Internet Protocol address of the system can be used to lookup a geographic location of the system. By way of another example the system can include a GPS Global Positioning System receiver that allows the system to determine its geographical location. By way of yet another example the user of the system could input information identifying his or her current location e.g. by zip code by latitude and longitude and so forth .

The page analysis and or scraping context information refers to information on a Web page and or associated with the Web page. This information is maintained as context information for each Web page accessed by the user during the browsing session. For example this information can be a summary of the Web page that is automatically generated from the Web page or is created by a Web page author or other party and distributed with the Web page. By way of another example this information can be the keywords or alternatively all of the words that are included as text of the Web page. By way of yet another example this information can be title information or other metadata associated with the Web page.

Search previewer sends the query term entered by the user entered manually or by selection of a query term from the query term drop down menu to search engine . Search previewer receives the search results from search engine and displays a preview of the search results concurrently with the Web page already being displayed e.g. as discussed above with respect to .

Search engine is typically a remote search engine accessed over the Internet. Search engine can be for example search engine of . The remote search engine can be a Web search engine that searches across different Web pages and Web sites of the Web or alternatively a Web site search engine that searches across only Web pages of a particular Web site. Alternatively the search engine can be a local search engine implemented on the same device as system or on a device accessed locally e.g. via a LAN rather than via the Internet.

UI display module optionally includes additional modules not shown providing additional functionality for the display of a combined web browsing and searching user interface. For example additional modules controlling the display of a Web page displaying search results when not being previewed and so forth can be included in UI display module or alternatively in another module of system .

Query term generation module generates the query terms and returns the query terms to UI display module . The query terms can be returned in different manners such as in response to an API exposed by module that is invoked by UI display module by invoking an API exposed by module by accessing another process or function made available by module and so forth.

Query term generation module includes a keyword extractor a keyword analyzer a query term builder and a context processor to assist in generating the set of keywords and or query terms. Query term generation module also accesses a query log processor to assist in the generation of query terms as discussed in more detail below.

Context processor obtains the context information gathered by context gatherer and makes it available to the other components of query term generation module .

Keyword extractor identifies or extracts keywords based on the context information from context processor . As discussed above the context information can include one or more of browse context and history location information and page analysis and or scraping information. The keywords can be extracted from the Web pages or from other sources such as metadata associated with the Web pages. This different context information typically includes text and keywords are extracted from the text by keyword extractor .

The keywords refer to the words that represent substantive information. For example men shoes party beverages all represent substantive information and thus would be considered keywords whereas a the to and and for do not typically represent substantive information and thus would not be considered keywords. Keywords can be identified by keyword extractor in any of a variety of manners. For example words from different sources can be weighted more heavily deemed as being more important than words from other sources e.g. title information for a Web page may be weighted more heavily than text displayed as part of the Web page . By way of another example the words can be ranked according to their weighting the frequency with which they occur and or in other manners and a certain number of words that are ranked the highest can be the extracted keywords. The specific identification of which words are keywords and which words are not keywords can vary by implementation and on the desires of the system designer.

Additionally various filtering can be imposed by keyword extractor to exclude certain words that represent substantive information from being keywords. For example profanity sexual terms hate terms and so forth can be filtered out by keyword extractor so that they are not identified as keywords regardless of the context information obtained from context processor .

In one or more embodiments keyword extractor identifies keywords based on the current Web page being displayed and the previous Web pages that were displayed in the current Web browsing session. When during a Web browsing session a user browses from one Web site to another keyword extractor attempts to determine whether the two Web sites are related. If the two Web sites are related then the context information from previous Web sites is kept as context information and thus is used by keyword extractor in identifying keywords. Context information from Web sites accessed longer ago can be removed or alternatively weighted lower as new Web sites are accessed during the current Web browsing session. However if the two Web sites are not related then the context information from previous Web sites is not used by keyword extractor in identifying keywords.

For example if a user browses from a Web page of one Web site describing a particular make and model of car to a Web page of another Web site describing the current weather forecast then the two Web sites are not related. However if a user browses from a Web page of one Web site describing a first make and model of car to a Web page of another Web site describing a second made and model of car then the two Web sites are related e.g. both describing cars .

Whether two Web sites are related can be determined in different manners. For example a set of categories can be established and made available to keyword extractor with Web sites in the same category being related. By way of another example other rules processes or algorithms can be used for keyword extractor to automatically identify whether two Web sites are related.

In one or more embodiments keyword extractor also identifies additional keywords by generalizing keywords to obtain categories to which the keywords correspond. For example if one of the keywords was a particular make of car then extractor can generate additional keywords of car automobile and so forth. By way of another example if one of the keywords was a particular model of car then extractor can generate additional keywords of sub compact luxury and so forth.

These categories can be determined in any of a variety of different manners. For example a list or other record of mappings of particular keywords to categories can be maintained and made available to keyword extractor . Alternatively these categories can be determined in other manners such as using processes or algorithms that monitor keywords and automatically identify categories for those keywords.

In one or more embodiments keyword extractor also identifies additional keywords by identifying the commonality among multiple web pages being browsed. For example if one of the Web pages being browsed described a first make and model of car and another of the Web pages being browsed described a second make and model of car then extractor can generate additional keywords that describe the commonality of those two makes and models of cars such as sub compact cars light trucks SUVs and so forth.

This commonality can be identified in any of a variety of different manners. For example a list or other record of mappings of particular keywords to categories can be maintained and made available to keyword extractor . This list or other record can then be analyzed given keywords obtained from each Web page based on the context information obtained from context processor to identify which categories are common to multiple Web pages being browsed. Alternatively these categories can be identified in other manners such as using processes or algorithms that monitor keywords for Web pages and automatically identify commonality among those keywords.

In one or more embodiments the identification of additional keywords by generalizing keywords to obtain categories to which the keywords correspond and or by identifying the commonality among multiple web pages being browsed is performed by keyword extractor as discussed above. Such keywords are thus provided to query log processor as discussed in more detail below. Alternatively the identification of categories and or commonality discussed above can be performed by keyword analyzer . In such embodiments the keywords for categories and or commonality are not provided to query log processor but rather are added to the query terms returned by query log processor . For example if query log processor returned a query term including a particular make and model of car then an additional query term of sub compact cars can be added to the query terms.

Keyword extractor sends one or more keywords to keyword analyzer . In one or more embodiments keyword extractor sends all keywords that have been extracted from the context information to keyword analyzer . Alternatively keyword extractor selects only some of the keywords that have been extracted and sends those selected keywords to keyword analyzer . Keyword extractor can select keywords in different manners such as by selecting heavier weighted or higher ranking keywords rather than lighter weighted or lower ranking keywords randomly according to some other processor method that assigns an importance to the keywords so that keywords deemed as being more important are selected and so forth.

Keyword analyzer identifies based on the keywords received from keyword extractor and or information regarding previous searches the query terms. This information regarding previous searches can be any of a variety of different information such as query terms previously searched for by the user query terms previously searched for by one or more other specific users query terms for current popular searches and so forth. Current popular searches can refer to query terms frequently searched for by other users most frequently viewed Web pages most frequently emailed Web pages Web pages most frequently commented on and so forth.

Keyword analyzer sends the keywords from keyword extractor to query log processor which in turn accesses one or more logs of recent queries by the user or alternatively by multiple users. For example these recent queries can be the most recent queries e.g. over the past 24 hours the past week etc. that have been received by a particular search engine. Alternatively more individualized query logs can optionally be maintained allowing only those query logs that correspond to the user to be accessed by query log processor . For example different query logs can be maintained for individual users or for groups of users based on various personal information such as gender age income bracket interests or hobbies and so forth. For users desiring to disclose this personal information these different query logs can be maintained and accessed by query log processor .

In one or more embodiments different search engines and or other parties on the Web keep track of queries that are made over different time frames and generate rankings or other information identifying the most popular query terms that have been searched for the query terms that have been searched for most frequently . Query log processor accesses any one or more of these search engines and or other parties and identifies the most popular query terms that include the keywords received from keyword analyzer . Query log processor can identify only those query terms that include all of the keywords received from keyword analyzer or alternatively fewer than all of the keywords e.g. any query term including at least one keyword received from analyzer . Alternatively other popular results can be identified as discussed above such as current popular viewed search results current popular emailed and or commented Web pages and so forth.

In other embodiments query log processor or alternatively another component or device maintains one or more logs of queries made by the user of system and or one or more specific other users e.g. additional users identified by the user of system . Query log processor can access these one or more logs to obtain information on previous searches by the user of system and or one or more specific other users. The most popular query terms for the current user and or the one or more specific other users can then be identified by query log processor .

Query log processor returns these identified popular query terms to keyword analyzer . Keyword analyzer forwards a particular number of these popular query terms to query term builder . If more than this particular number are returned by query log processor then keyword analyzer determines which of the query terms to forward to query term builder . This determination can be made in different manners and in one or more embodiments is made so that the query terms that the user is most likely to want to search for are forwarded to query term builder . For example this determination can be made based on the popularity of the query terms how many of the keywords received from keyword extractor are include in the query terms randomly based on other delivery methods and so forth.

In one or more embodiments a set of delivery methods also referred to as delivery techniques is used to determine which query terms are to be forwarded to query term builder include one or more of an expansion method a category method a sibling method an intersection method and an inference method. These delivery methods can be based on one or more of information obtained from query log processor regarding previous searches context information obtained by context processor location information and so forth.

The expansion method refers to expanding out the keywords so that the query terms include additional keywords that were not necessarily received from keyword extractor . For example assume a user is browsing Web pages for new cars and has accessed a Web page describing a particular make and model of car. This make and model can be part of the query term and the expansion method can select query terms that include both the make and model as well as additional words such as comparison buying bluebook road test and so forth.

The category method refers to identifying general categories that the keywords received from keyword extractor are part of. For example assume a user is browsing Web pages for new cars and has accessed a Web page describing a particular make and model of car. Query terms including keywords that are general categories for that particular make and or model of car can be used such as sub compact cars luxury cars and so forth.

The sibling method refers to identifying query terms that share some but not all of the keywords received from keyword extractor . For example assume a user is browsing Web pages for new cars and has accessed a Web page describing a particular make and model of car. The make of the car can be part of the query term but other models of cars can be included in the query term rather than that particular model of car.

The intersection method refers to identifying commonality or connections among multiple Web pages being browsed. For example assume a user is browsing Web pages for new cars and has accessed two Web pages the first Web page describing a first make and model of car and the second Web page describing a second make and model of car. Query terms including keywords that describe the commonality among these two makes and models of cars can be used such as sub compact cars popular Japanese cars and so forth.

The inference method refers to inferring additional keywords assumed to be desired by the user based on other keywords entered by the user. For example assume that a user has searched on Hawaii and beach . If most people who search on Hawaii beaches or in this user s previous searching on Hawaii beaches also search on surfing then surfing can be added as part of the query term.

Keyword analyzer can determine which one or more of these expansion method category method sibling method intersection method and inference method to use in any of a variety of manners. In one or more embodiments a set of rules is made available to keyword analyzer to identify which method s to user. These rules can be determined in different manners such as empirically based on the desires of the designer of system and so forth. These rules can take any of a variety of different forms. For example a rule can indicate that when the user is navigating from one web site to another rather than browsing web pages deeper into the directory structure of the web site then the category method is to be used. By way of another example a rule can indicate that when the user is browsing Web pages going deeper into the directory structure of the same web site rather than browsing to different web sites then the expansion method is to be used.

It is to be appreciated that any of a wide variety of different rules can be developed and used to determine which one or more of these expansion method category method sibling method intersection method and inference method to use. Alternatively other techniques can be employed such as using other processes or algorithms that automatically select one or more of these expansion method category method sibling method intersection method and inference method to use based on one or more of context information obtained from context processor keywords received from keyword extractor query terms received from query log processor and so forth.

Additionally keyword analyzer can employ different rules in determining whether to use keywords received from keyword extractor and or keywords from information regarding previous searches when identifying query terms. For example when a user begins a Web browsing session and accesses a first page there may be very little context information available so the keywords from information regarding previous searches can be weighted more heavily or can even be used exclusively . Following this example as the user navigates to different Web pages by selecting links displayed on the Web pages more context information may become available so the keywords received from keyword extractor are weighted more heavily than keywords from information regarding previous searches. The keywords received from keyword extractor can optionally be weighted increasingly more heavily as more Web pages are accessed by selecting links. Such keywords from information regarding previous searches can optionally be weighted to zero so that only the keywords received form keyword extractor are used.

In one or more embodiments keyword analyzer also includes location information in one or more of the query terms. For example a zip code for the user a city name and or state name for the user and so forth can be included as part of the query term. This location information is added to one or more of the query terms forwarded to query term builder . Which query terms are to have this location information added can be identified in any of a variety of different manners. For example the location information can be added to random query terms to the most popular query terms as identified by query log processor that are forwarded to query term builder to the least popular query terms as identified by query log processor that are forwarded to query term builder using other processes or algorithms that select query terms to which location information is to be added and so forth.

Query term builder receives the query terms and generates a list of the query terms to be returned to UI display module . The query terms can be listed in accordance with any of a variety of different criteria such as alphabetically based on their popularity as identified by query log processor randomly and so forth.

Additionally query terms can be maintained and displayed as the user browses from one Web page to the next. For example assume that UI display module can display up to five different query terms. If only two query terms are generated when the user browses to the current Web page then those two query terms are displayed by module . If four query terms are generated when the user browses to the next Web page then those four query terms as well as one of the previous two query terms are displayed by module .

In one or more embodiments UI display module and query term generation module are implemented on a single device e.g. computing device of while search engine and query log processor are implemented on other devices. Alternatively system can be implemented in other manners such as search engine and or query log processor being implemented on a same device as module and or module or modules and being distributed across multiple computing devices.

Initially context information regarding a user is identified act . As discussed above a variety of different context information can be identified such as a current location of the system implementing process information regarding a Web page currently being displayed by the system implementing process and so forth.

Context information regarding a user is used to identify a set of keywords act . These keywords can be identified in a variety of different manners as discussed above e.g. with respect to and can be based at least in part on a current Web page being displayed and one or more previous Web pages displayed for the user.

The set of keywords and or information regarding previous searches are used to identify a set of query terms act . These query terms can be identified in any of a variety of different manners as discussed above e.g. with respect to and can optionally be based on previous searches by the user and or previous popular searches by other users as discussed above. Alternatively additional signals or information can be used to identify the set of query terms in other embodiments.

The set of query terms identified in act are displayed act . In one or more embodiments the set of query terms are displayed in a drop down menu corresponding to a search box although the set of query terms can alternatively be displayed in other manners. A user selection of one of the set of query terms is received act and the selected query term is entered in the corresponding search box act .

Initially a search box with a query term is displayed while displaying a Web page act . A user can enter the query term manually or alternatively by selection of a query term e.g. displayed in a drop down menu as discussed above. One or more search options and one or more search preview options are also displayed act and a user selection of a search option or a search preview option is received act . Process then proceeds based on whether selection of a search option or a search preview option is received.

The search option s can be a search Web site option and or a search Web option. If a search option is selected then the query term displayed in the search box in act is sent to a search engine act . The search engine to which the query term is sent can vary and is based on for example user preferences default settings for the Web browser displaying the Web page whether the Web is to be searched or a Web site is to be searched and so forth. Search results are received from the search engine act and a Web page including the search results is displayed act .

The search preview options can be for a Web site and or the Web. If the search preview option is selected then the query term displayed in the search box in act is sent to a search engine act . The search engine to which the query term is sent can vary and is based on for example user preferences default settings for the Web browser displaying the Web page whether the Web is to be searched or a Web site is to be searched and so forth. Search results are received from the search engine act and both the search results and the Web page are displayed concurrently in a same window of a user interface act .

Reference is made herein to displaying various information or data e.g. displaying a set of query terms in act of displaying search results and a Web page concurrently in act and so forth . This displaying refers to generating a signal that allows the particular information or data to be presented visually by a display device with or without additional processing being performed by the display device. The device generating this signal can be the display device itself or alternatively another device that provides this signal to the display device.

Computing device includes one or more processors or processing units one or more computer readable media which can include one or more memory and or storage components one or more input output I O devices and a bus that allows the various components and devices to communicate with one another. Computer readable media and or I O device s can be included as part of or alternatively may be coupled to computing device . Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. Bus can include wired and or wireless buses.

Memory storage component represents one or more computer storage media. Component can include volatile media such as random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media such as read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and so forth . Component can include fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk and so forth .

The techniques discussed herein can be implemented in software with instructions being executed by processing unit s . It is to be appreciated that different instructions can be stored in different components of computing device such as in a processing unit in various cache memories of a processing unit in other cache memories of device not shown on other computer readable media and so forth. Additionally it is to be appreciated that the location where instructions are stored in computing device can change over time.

One or more input output devices allow a user to enter commands and information to computing device and also allows information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone a scanner and so forth. Examples of output devices include a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card and so forth.

Various techniques may be described herein in the general context of software or program modules. Generally software includes routines programs objects components data structures and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available medium or media that can be accessed by a computing device. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communications media. 

 Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

 Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as carrier wave or other transport mechanism. Communication media also include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

Additionally it should be noted that in one or more embodiments the advertisement controlled Web page customization techniques discussed herein can be implemented in hardware. For example one or more logic circuits application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and so forth can be created and or configured to implement the techniques discussed herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

