---

title: Compounds and methods for leukotriene biosynthesis inhibition
abstract: This invention provides novel salt and crystalline forms thereof of (−)4-(4-fluorophenyl)-7-[({5-[1-hydroxy-1-(trifluoromethyl)propyl]-1,3,4-oxadiazol-2-yl}amino)-methyl]-2H-chromen-2-one. The compounds are 5-LO inhibitors and are useful for treatment of conditions such as asthma, allergic rhinitis, COPD, and atherosclerosis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07915298&OS=07915298&RS=07915298
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 07915298
owner_city: Rahway
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080924
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 995 525 filed Sep. 27 2007.

The instant invention relates to novel salt forms and crystalline forms thereof of S 4 4 fluorophenyl 7 5 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 ylamino methyl 2H chromen 2 one and its use as a leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitor alone or in combination with other active agents to treat conditions such as asthma allergic rhinitis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and atherosclerosis.

Inhibition of leukotriene biosynthesis has been an active area of pharmaceutical research for many years. The leukotrienes constitute a group of locally acting hormones produced in living systems from arachidonic acid. Leukotrienes are potent contractile and inflammatory mediators derived by enzymatic oxygenation of arachidonic acid by 5 lipoxygenase. One class of leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors are those known to act through inhibition of 5 lipoxygenase 5 LO .

The major leukotrienes are Leukotriene B abbreviated as LTB LTC LTDand LTE. The biosynthesis of these leukotrienes begins with the action of the enzyme 5 lipoxygenases on arachidonic acid to produce the epoxide known as Leukotriene A LTA which is converted to the other leukotrienes by subsequent enzymatic steps. Further details of the biosynthesis as well as the metabolism of the leukotrienes are to be found in the book Leukotrienes and Lipoxygenases ed. J. Rokach Elsevier Amsterdam 1989 . The actions of the leukotrienes in living systems and their contribution to various diseases states are also discussed in the book by Rokach.

In general 5 LO inhibitors have been sought for the treatment of allergic rhinitis asthma and inflammatory conditions including arthritis. One example of a 5 LO inhibitor is the marketed drug zileuton ZYLOFT which is indicated for the treatment of asthma. More recently it has been reported that 5 LO may be an important contributor to the atherogenic process see Mehrabian M. et al. Circulation Research Jul. 26 2002 91 2 120 126.

The compound 4 4 fluorophenyl 7 5 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 ylamino methyl 2H chromen 2 one including the and enantiomer species thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof is presented in PCT application number CA2006 000432 having publication number WO2006 099735. The instant invention provides novel salts of 4 4 fluorophenyl 7 5 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 ylamino methyl 2H chromen 2 one and crystalline forms thereof which have advantageous properties for use as a pharmaceutical drug.

The structure of free base compound 4 4 fluorophenyl 7 5 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 ylamino methyl 2H chromen 2 one is shown below 

One object of the instant invention is to provide novel besylate and tosylate salts of the 5 LO inhibitor S 4 4 fluorophenyl 7 5 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 ylamino methyl 2H chromen 2 one. Another object is to provide the novel anhydrous crystalline S 4 4 fluorophenyl 7 5 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 ylamino methyl 2H chromen 2 one tosylate salt as well as solvated forms thereof. The invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions containing these salts.

Another object of the instant invention is to provide a method for preventing the synthesis the action or the release of leukotrienes and for treating inflammatory conditions which comprises administering to a host in need thereof an effective amount of a salt of the present invention.

The instant invention further provides methods of preventing or treating asthma allergic rhinitis or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a salt of this invention to a patient in need of the above described treatments.

Additionally the salts of this invention are useful as pharmaceutical agents to slow or halt atherogenesis. Therefore the instant invention provides a method for treating atherosclerosis which includes halting or slowing the progression of atherosclerotic disease once it has become clinically evident comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a salt of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment. The instant invention also provides methods for preventing or reducing the risk for having an atherosclerotic disease event comprising administering a prophylactically effective amount of a salt of this invention to a patient who is at risk of developing atherosclerosis or having an atherosclerotic disease event.

The instant invention further provides the use of a salt of this invention in combination with other therapeutically effective agents. Additional embodiments will be evident from the following detailed description.

Compound I is a pharmacologically active free base compound. The salts of the present invention can be prepared by combining free base Compound I with either benzene sulfonic or p toluenesulfonic acid to provide the besylate and tosylate salts respectively. Compound I tosylate salt is preferred. For the purpose of clarity the following salt names can be used interchangeably and have the same meaning the p toluenesulfonic acid salt of Compound I can also be referred to as the p toluenesulfonate 4 methylphenylsulfonate or tosylate salt of Compound I and the benzenesulfonic acid salt of Compound I can also be referred to as the benzenesulfonate or besylate salt of Compound I.

The salts of Compound I may be prepared by placing Compound I free base in contact with the appropriate acid in an organic solvent such as 1 2 dichloroethane isopropyl acetate iPAc ethyl acetate tetrahydrofuran heptane methylcyclohexane acetonitrile acetone as well as nitromethane cyclohexane i propyl alcohol and methyl isobutyl ketone heating if needed up to reflux to obtain a solution followed by cooling to induce precipitation. The salt in solid form may precipitate from a single solvent or precipitation may be initiated by addition of an anti solvent and can be collected by filtration.

The tosylate salt of Compound I readily forms solvates with organic solvents for example but not limited to iPAc heptane methylcyclohexane tetrahydrofuran acetonitrile and acetone as well as nitromethane cyclohexane i propyl alcohol and methyl isobutyl ketone MIBK . Such solvates can be formed by combining anhydrous crystalline form of the tosylate salt of Compound I hereinafter referred to as Form A with an organic solvent and stirring to form a slurry. Conversion from an anhydrous form to a solvated form can occur over varying timeframes for example from a few hours to several days and can be monitored by known analytical techniques such as XRPD. Analysis to detect the formation of a solvate can be performed on a sample of the slurry or the slurry can be filtered and the analysis performed on the resulting wet cake. If the analysis is performed on the wet cake it must be done in sufficient time prior to evaporation desolvation of the solvent from the crystalline compound.

Solvated Compound I tosylate salt readily desolvates to the anhydrous Form A. Desolvation can be accomplished by standard methods known in the art for example by allowing the solvated compound to sit in an open container at ambient temperature i.e. about 25 C. until the solvent evaporates or by accelerating evaporation of the solvent using elevated temperatures and or vacuum.

Crystalline solvates of Compound I tosylate salt as described herein are those solvated crystal forms which when desolvated result in anhydrous crystalline Form A. Since such crystalline solvates are the solvated counterparts to crystalline anhydrous Form A the solvated crystal forms may share certain physical characteristic data with Form A where the data is derived from solid state analysis. For example crystalline solvates of Compound I tosylate salt and anhydrous Form A may share one or more of the same or reasonably similar d spacings in their XRPD or the same or reasonably similar chemical shifts in the solid state carbon 13 CPMAS NMR spectra. Accordingly such solvates are within the scope of this invention.

The amorphous tosylate salt of Compound I can be generated by milling spray drying or melt quenching of the crystalline tosylate salt. The amorphous tosylate salt can be re crystallized to crystalline tosylate salt in an organic solvent such as 1 2 dichloroethane isopropyl acetate ethyl acetate tetrahydrofuran heptane methylcyclohexane acetonitrile acetone as well as nitromethane cyclohexane i propyl alcohol and methyl isobutyl ketone heating if needed up to reflux to obtain a solution followed by cooling to induce precipitation. Re crystallization can be accelerated at elevated relative humidity and or elevated temperature. For example heating the amorphous material to greater than 100 C. and holding it isothermal till re crystallization completion is detected by analytical techniques such as MDSC or XRPD.

Besylate salt. The besylate salt of Compound I can be characterized by proton magnetic resonance spectrum as follows H NMR DMSO d 400.1 MHz 8.56 t J 6.0 Hz 1H 7.63 7.58 overlapping m 4H 7.44 7.38 overlapping m 4H 7.35 7.30 overlapping m 4H 6.42 s 1H 4.52 d J 6.0 Hz 2H 2.14 2.05 m 1H 2.02 1.93 m 1H 0.89 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

The besylate salt is also characterized by differential scanning calorimeter DSC . The data were acquired using a TA robotic DSC Q1000 . DSC analyses n 2 were carried out in crimped aluminium pans 10 C. min 50 mL min nitrogen . The DSC was calibrated for temperature and heat flow with indium Goodfellow 99.999 Pure and tin NIST SRM 2220 . shows the differential calorimetry scan for the crystalline besylate salt. The DSC curve shows an onset melting temperature of 156 C. peak temperature of 159 C. .

XRPD patterns were measured using a Scintag XDS 2000 Si Li Peltier cooled solid state detector CuK source using a generator power of 45 kV and current of 40 mA. A divergent beam of 2 mm and 4 mm and receiving beam slits of 0.5 mm and 0.2 mm were used. Scan range was set from 2 50 2 in step mode using a step size of 0.02 and a 2 second count time per step. The sample was measured on a quartz disk. Peak positions were verified using a standard corundum plate NIST SRM 1976 .

The crystalline besylate salt of Compound I can also be characterized by the X ray diffraction pattern of .

Tosylate salt. A proton magnetic resonance spectrum of the tosylate salt of Compound I was obtained using a Bruker DRX 600 nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectrometer operating at a frequency of 600.13 MHz. The sample concentration was approximately 4.4 w v in CDOD. The reference compound was CDHOD 3.31 ppm . Signal assignments are tabulated following the numbered structural formula of the tosylate salt of Compound I shown below.

The X ray powder diffraction patterns of Form A and the crystalline iPAc i propyl acetate solvate of the tosylate salt of Compound I were generated on a Philips Analytical X Pert PRO X ray Diffraction System with PW3040 60 console. A PW3373 00 ceramic Cu LEF X ray tube K Alpha radiation was used as the source wavelength 1.54 angstroms .

In addition to the X ray powder diffraction studies described above Form A and the crystalline iPAc solvate of the tosylate salt of Compound I were also characterized by solid state carbon 13 nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectra. The solid state carbon 13 NMR spectra were obtained on a Bruker DSX 500 WB NMR system using a Bruker 4 mm H X Y CPMAS probe. The carbon 13 NMR spectra utilized proton carbon 13 cross polarization magic angle spinning with variable amplitude cross polarization total sideband suppression and SPINAL decoupling at 100 kHz. The samples were spun at 10.0 kHz and a total of 20480 scans were collected with a recycle delay of 3 seconds. A line broadening of 10 Hz was applied to the spectra before FT was performed. Chemical shifts are reported on the TMS scale using the carbonyl carbon of glycine 176.03 p.p.m. as a secondary reference.

Form A was also characterized by solid state fluorine 19 NMR. The solid state fluorine 19 NMR spectra were obtained on a Bruker DSX 500WB NMR system using a Bruker 4 mm H F X CPMAS probe. The fluorine 19 NMR spectra utilized proton fluorine 19 cross polarization magic angle spinning with variable amplitude cross polarization and TPPM decoupling at 63 kHz. The samples were spun at 12.0 kHz and a total of 1024 scans were collected with a recycle delay of 5 seconds. A line broadening of 10 Hz was applied to the spectrum before FT was performed. Chemical shifts are reported using poly tetrafluoroethylene Teflon as an external secondary reference which was assigned a chemical shift of 122 ppm.

Differential scanning calorimeter DSC data were acquired using TA Instruments DSC 2910 or equivalent instrumentation. Between 1 and 6 mg sample is weighed into an open pan. This pan is then crimped and placed at the sample position in the calorimeter cell. An empty pan is placed at the reference position. The calorimeter cell is closed and a flow of nitrogen is passed through the cell. The heating program is set to heat the sample at a heating rate of 10 C. min to a temperature of approximately 200 C. The heating program is started. When the run is completed the data are analyzed using the DSC analysis program contained in the system software. The melting endotherm is integrated between baseline temperature points that are above and below the temperature range over which the endotherm is observed. The data reported are the onset temperature peak temperature and enthalpy.

Modulated differential scanning calorimeter MDSC data were acquired using TA Instruments DSC Q1000 or equivalent instrumentation. Between 1 and 10 mg sample was weighed into an open pan and lid was placed lightly to cover the sample. This covered pan was then placed at the sample position in the calorimeter cell. An empty pan with lid was placed at the reference position. The calorimeter cell was closed and a flow of nitrogen was passed through the cell. Method parameters for MDSC included heating to 80 C. at a rate of 10 C. min isothermal at 80 C. for 10 mins cooling to 40 C. at a rate of 10 C. min and heating to 175 C. at a rate of 3 C. min with modulation of 1 C. min. The heating program was started. When the run was completed the data were analyzed using the DSC analysis program contained in the system software. The glass transition temperature T was integrated above and below the temperature range which baseline shifted is observed on reversible heat flow curve. In some amorphous sample recrystallization is observed. The data reported are the onset temperature midpoint temperature and endset temperature of glass transition. The recrystallization exotherm is integrated between baseline temperature points that are above and below the temperature range over which the exotherm is observed. The data reported in this case are peak temperature and enthalpy.

Form A can also be characterized by having at least one d spacing selected from 17.77 8.90 and 5.17 angstroms or at least two d spacings selected from 17.77 8.90 and 5.17 angstroms.

Form A can also be characterized by having characteristic diffraction peaks corresponding to d spacings of 17.77 8.90 and 5.17 angstroms or Form A can be characterized by having characteristic diffraction peaks corresponding to d spacings of 4.45 4.09 and 3.32 angstroms or Form A can be characterized by diffraction peaks corresponding to d spacings of 7.29 4.20 and 3.81 angstroms. Furthermore Form A can be characterized by a combination of two or three d spacing groupings selected from a 17.77 8.90 and 5.17 angstroms b 4.45 4.09 and 3.32 angstroms and c 7.29 4.20 and 3.81 angstroms.

Form A can also be characterized by signals obtained by solid state carbon 13 CPMAS NMR with chemical shift values of 48.5 and 124.1 or 48.5 and 152.4 p.p.m.

Form A can be characterized by signals obtained by solid state carbon 13 CPMAS NMR with chemical shift values of 48.5 124.1 and 152.4 p.p.m or Form A can be characterized by signals with chemical shift values of 28.4 141.3 and 162.1 p.p.m. or Form A can be characterized by signals with chemical shift values of 74.8 154.4 and 164.5 p.p.m. Furthermore Form A can be characterized by a combination of two or three chemical shift values groupings selected from a 48.5 124.1 and 152.4 p.p.m. b 28.4 141.3 and 162.1 p.p.m. and c 74.8 154.4 and 164.5 p.p.m.

Anhydrous crystalline Form A can also be characterized by the solid state carbon 13 CPMAS NMR spectrum of .

Form A can also be characterized by having at least one chemical shift value obtained by solid state fluorine 19 CPMAS NMR selected from the group consisting of 50.2 75.6 and 101.3 or more particularly by having at least two chemical shift values selected from the group consisting of 50.2 75.6 and 101.3.

Form A can also be characterized by signals obtained by solid state fluorine 19 CPMAS NMR with chemical shift values of 50.2 75.6 101.3 p.p.m or Form A can be characterized by signals with chemical shift values of 24.6 and 110.9 p.p.m. Anhydrous crystalline Form A can also be characterized by the solid state fluorine 19 CPMAS NMR spectrum of .

The crystalline iPAc solvate of the tosylate salt of Compound I is referred to herein as Form B. shows the X ray powder diffraction pattern of the crystalline iPAc solvate tosylate salt Form B. Form B has characteristic diffraction peaks corresponding to d spacings of 19.00 6.36 4.77 5.74 4.25 3.19 5.50 5.27 and 3.60 angstroms. In particular Form B can be characterized by having an XRPD pattern obtained using CuK radiation containing at least one d spacing selected from the group consisting of 19.00 6.36 4.77 5.74 4.25 3.19 5.50 5.27 and 3.60 angstroms. More particularly Form B can be characterized by having an XRPD pattern obtained using CuK radiation containing at least two d spacings selected from the group consisting of 19.00 6.36 4.77 5.74 4.25 3.19 5.50 5.27 and 3.60 angstroms. Even more particularly Form B can be characterized by having an XRPD pattern obtained using CuK radiation containing at least three d spacings selected from the group consisting of 19.00 6.36 4.77 5.74 4.25 3.19 5.50 5.27 and 3.60 angstroms.

Form B can also be characterized by having at least one d spacing selected from 19.00 6.36 and 4.77 angstroms or at least two d spacings selected from 19.00 6.36 and 4.77 angstroms.

Form B can also be characterized by having characteristic diffraction peaks corresponding to d spacings of 19.00 6.36 and 4.77 angstroms or Form B can be characterized by having characteristic diffraction peaks corresponding to d spacings of 5.74 4.25 and 3.19 angstroms or Form B can be characterized by diffraction peaks corresponding to d spacings of 5.50 5.27 and 3.60 angstroms. Furthermore Form B can be characterized by a combination of two or three d spacing groupings selected from a 19.00 6.36 and 4.77 angstroms b 5.74 4.25 and 3.19 angstroms and c 5.50 5.27 and 3.60 angstroms.

Form B can also be characterized by signals obtained by solid state carbon 13 CPMAS NMR with at least one chemical shift value selected from 73.6 127.5 and 159.7 p.p.m or at least two chemical shift values selected from 73.6 127.5 and 159.7 p.p.m

Form B can also be characterized by signals obtained by solid state carbon 13 CPMAS NMR with chemical shift values of 73.6 127.5 and 159.7 p.p.m or Form B can be characterized by signals with chemical shift values of 124.2 140.9 and 152.5 p.p.m. or Form B can be characterized by signals with chemical shift values of 116.4 131.9 and 154.9 p.p.m. Furthermore Form B can be characterized by a combination of two or three chemical shift values groupings selected from a 73.6 127.5 and 159.7 p.p.m. b 124.2 140.9 and 152.5 p.p.m. and c 116.4 131.9 and 154.9 p.p.m.

Additionally the Compound I amorphous tosylate salt can be characterized by signals obtained by solid state fluorine 19 CPMAS NMR with chemical shift values of 53.2 78.7 and 104.7 p.p.m. or the amorphous tosylate salt can be characterized by signals with chemical shift values of 28.0 and 110.6 p.p.m.

The amorphous tosylate salt of Compound I can also be characterized by the solid state fluorine 19 CPMAS NMR spectrum of .

Compound I is a pharmacologically active agent having 5 LO inhibitory activity and accordingly the salts of Compound I likewise are active 5 LO inhibitors. The ability of Compound I and salts thereof to inhibit biosynthesis of the leukotrienes makes them useful for preventing or reversing the symptoms induced by leukotrienes in a human subject. Accordingly this invention provides a method for preventing the synthesis the action or the release of leukotrienes in a mammal which comprises administering to said mammal a 5 LO inhibitory effective amount of a salt of Compound I in a pharmaceutical composition of this invention. Such 5 LO inhibitory activity can be measured using the Human 5 Lipoxygenase Enzyme Assay and 5 Lipoxygenase Human Whole Blood Assay described herein. Since leukotrienes are potent inflammatory mediators also provided is a method of treating an inflammatory condition in a mammal which comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a mammal in need of such treatment.

The inhibition of the mammalian biosynthesis of leukotrienes also indicates that the salts of Compound I and pharmaceutical compositions thereof are useful to treat prevent or ameliorate atherosclerosis in mammals and especially in humans. Therefore the compounds of this invention can be used for the treatment of atherosclerosis comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment.

The method of this invention serves to prevent or slow new atherosclerotic lesion or plaque formation and to prevent or slow progression of existing lesions or plaques as well as to cause regression of existing lesions or plaques. Accordingly one aspect of this invention encompassed within the scope of treatment of atherosclerosis involves a method for halting or slowing the progression of atherosclerosis including halting or slowing atherosclerotic plaque progression comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment. This method includes halting or slowing progression of atherosclerotic plaques existing at the time the instant treatment is begun i.e. existing atherosclerotic plaques as well as halting or slowing formation of new atherosclerotic plaques in patients with atherosclerosis.

Another aspect of this invention encompassed within the scope of treatment of atherosclerosis involves a method for effecting regression of atherosclerosis including effecting regression of atherosclerotic plaques existing at the time the instant treatment is begun comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment.

Also provided is a method comprising administering to a patient who has atherosclerosis a compound of this invention with the objective of preventing or reducing the risk of atherosclerotic plaque rupture. Therefore this invention provides a method for preventing or reducing the risk of atherosclerotic plaque rupture comprising administering a prophylactically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient having atherosclerotic plaque.

This invention also involves a method for preventing or reducing the risk of developing atherosclerosis comprising administering a prophylactically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment including for example a patient who is at risk for developing atherosclerosis.

Atherosclerosis is characterized by the deposition of atheromatous plaques containing cholesterol and lipids on the innermost layer of the walls of large and medium sized arteries. Atherosclerosis encompasses vascular diseases and conditions that are recognized and understood by physicians practicing in the relevant fields of medicine. Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease including restenosis following revascularization procedures coronary heart disease also known as coronary artery disease or ischemic heart disease cerebrovascular disease including multi infarct dementia and peripheral vessel disease including erectile dysfunction are all clinical manifestations of atherosclerosis and are therefore encompassed by the terms atherosclerosis and atherosclerotic disease. 

A compound of the instant invention may be administered to prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence or recurrence where the potential exists of a coronary heart disease CHD event a cerebrovascular event and or intermittent claudication. Coronary heart disease events are intended to include CHD death myocardial infarction i.e. a heart attack and coronary revascularization procedures. Cerebrovascular events are intended to include ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke also known as cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks. Intermittent claudication is a clinical manifestation of peripheral vessel disease. The term atherosclerotic disease event as used herein is intended to encompass coronary heart disease events cerebrovascular events and intermittent claudication. It is intended that persons who have previously experienced one or more non fatal atherosclerotic disease events are those for whom the potential for recurrence of such an event exists.

Accordingly the instant invention also provides a method for preventing or reducing the risk of a first or subsequent occurrence of an atherosclerotic disease event comprising the administration of a prophylactically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment such as a patient who is at risk for such an event. The patient in need of such treatment may already have atherosclerotic disease at the time of administration or may be at risk for developing it.

This invention also provides a method for treating preventing or ameliorating angina and or myocardial ischemia comprising administering a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount as appropriate of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment.

Additionally the activity of the instant compounds as leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors makes them useful for treating preventing or ameliorating 1 pulmonary disorders including diseases such as asthma chronic bronchitis and related obstructive airway diseases 2 allergies and allergic reactions such as allergic rhinitis contact dermatitis allergic conjunctivitis and the like 3 inflammation such as arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease 4 pain 5 skin disorders such as atopic eczema and the like 6 cardiovascular disorders such hypertension platelet aggregation and the like 7 renal insufficiency arising from ischaemia induced by immunological or chemical cyclosporin etiology and 8 migraine or cluster headache 9 ocular conditions such as uveitis 10 hepatitis resulting from chemical immunological or infectious stimuli 11 trauma or shock states such as burn injuries endotoxemia and the like 12 allograft rejection 13 prevention of side effects associated with therapeutic administration of cytokines such as Interleukin II and tumor necrosis factor 14 chronic lung diseases such as cystic fibrosis bronchitis and other small and large airway diseases 15 cholecystitis 16 multiple sclerosis 17 proliferation of myoblastic leukemia cells 18 pulmonary fibrosis 19 respiratory syncytial virus 20 acne and 21 sleep apnea. Moreover the compounds of this invention can be administered to patients including adult and pediatric patients for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis including seasonal allergic rhinitis.

Particularly the compounds of this invention can be administered to patients including adult and pediatric patients for the prophylaxis of asthma and for chronic treatment of asthma. The compounds of this invention can be administered to patients including adult and pediatric patients for the treatment of asthma 1 as an alternative to low dose inhaled corticosteroids ICS for patients with mild persistent asthma 2 as concomitant therapy with low dose inhaled corticosteroids ICS for patients with mild persistent asthma or 3 as concomitant therapy in patients with persistent asthma who are inadequately controlled on inhaled corticosteroids ICS or on combined ICS long acting beta agonist LABA therapy. The compounds can be used for treatment of asthmatic patients including but not limited to steroid resistant non responder asthmatics asthmatics for whom leukotriene modifiers have previously failed smoking asthmatics and aspirin sensitive asthmatics.

The compounds can be administered to patients to 1 improve FEVI Forced Expitory Volume in one minute 2 improve morning and evening PEF Peak Expitory flow 3 reduce beta agonist use measured by puffs day 4 reduce inhaled systemic steroid use 5 improve daytime asthma symptoms 6 reduce number of nocturnal awakenings 7 improve asthma control days 8 reduce number of asthma exacerbations wherein an exacerbation is defined as requiring systemic steroid an emergency room visit hospitalization an unscheduled asthma related doctor visit decrease in A.M. PEF by 20 or A.M. PEF 70 from baseline minimum increase 2 puffs or increased symptom score of 50 9 reduce the number of asthma attacks measured as of days with at least one attack over a specified period of total days wherein the attack is one that requires systemic steroid use an emergency room visit hospitalization or an unscheduled asthma related doctor visit 10 reduce the number of acute asthma attacks 11 reduce blood and sputum eosinophils and or 12 prevent and treat EIB exercised induced bronchoconstriction .

The compounds of the present invention may also be used to treat or prevent mammalian especially human disease states such as erosive gastritis erosive esophagitis diarrhea cerebral spasm premature labor spontaneous abortion dysmenorrhea ischemia noxious agent induced damage or necrosis of hepatic pancreatic renal or myocardial tissue liver parenchymal damage caused by hepatoxic agents such as CCland D galactosamine ischemic renal failure disease induced hepatic damage bile salt induced pancreatic or gastric damage trauma or stress induced cell damage and glycerol induced renal failure. Leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors also act as inhibitors of tumor metastasis and exhibit cytoprotective action.

The cytoprotective activity of a compound may be observed in both animals and man by noting the increased resistance of the gastrointestinal mucosa to the noxious effects of strong irritants for example the ulcerogenic effects of aspirin or indomethacin. In addition to lessening the effect of non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs on the gastrointestinal tract animal studies show that cytoprotective compounds will prevent gastric lesions induced by oral administration of strong acids strong bases ethanol hypertonic saline solutions and the like. Two assays can be used to measure cytoprotective ability. These assays are A an ethanol induced lesion assay and B an indomethacin induced ulcer assay and are described in EP 140 684. In particular the compounds of the invention would be useful to reduce the gastric erosion caused by co administration of a cyclooxygenase 2 selective inhibitor such as etoricoxib ARCOXIA and celecoxib CELEBREX and low dose aspirin.

In addition the compounds of this invention can also be used for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD . As described in S. Kilfeather Chest 2002 vol. 121 197 airway neutrophilia in COPD patients is believed to be a contributing source of inflammation and is associated with airway remodeling. The presence of neutrophils is mediated in part by LTB and treatment with the instant compounds could be used to reduce neutrophilic inflammation in patients with COPD and reduce the rate of COPD exacerbations. In particular the compounds of this invention could be used for daily preferably once daily maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction associated with COPD including chronic bronchitis and emphysema.

Additionally the 5 LO inhibitor compounds of this invention may be useful for treatment of psychiatric disorders such as depression and anxiety see Manev R. and Manev H. 5 Lipoxygenase as a Putative Link Between Cardiovascular and Psychiatric Disorders 16 181 186 2004 . The 5 LO inhibitor compounds inhibitors of this invention can also be used in a therapeutically effective amount for promoting osteogenesis in a patient in need of such treatment. For example the compounds could be used to promote osteogenesis to accelerate or enhance bone fracture healing treat bone defects and enhance bone formation. The compounds can be administered alone or in combination with one or more additional active agents that inhibit bone resorption regulate calcium resorption from bone enhance bone accumulation enhance bone formation induce bone formation impair growth of microorganisms reduce inflammation and or reduce pain.

The term patient includes mammals especially humans who use the instant active agents for the prevention or treatment of a medical condition. Administering of the drug to the patient includes both self administration and administration to the patient by another person. The patient may be in need of treatment for an existing disease or medical condition or may desire prophylactic treatment to prevent or reduce the risk for diseases and medical conditions affected by inhibition of leukotriene biosynthesis.

The term therapeutically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a drug or pharmaceutical agent that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue a system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. The term prophylactically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence of the biological or medical event that is sought to be prevented in a tissue a system animal or human by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician.

Dosage amounts described herein are based on the weight of the pharmaceutically active free base Compound I. The magnitude of prophylactic or therapeutic dose of a compound of this invention will of course vary with the nature of the severity of the condition to be treated and its route of administration. It will also vary according to the age weight and response of the individual patient. It is understood that a specific daily dosage amount can simultaneously be both a therapeutically effective amount e.g. for treatment to slow progression of existing atherosclerosis and a prophylactically effective amount e.g. for prevention of an atherosclerotic disease event or formation of new lesions. In general the daily dose range for anti asthmatic anti inflammatory including COPD treatment anti allergic including allergic rhinitis or anti atherosclerotic use and generally uses other than cytoprotection can lie within the range of from about 0.01 mg to about 3 mg per kg body weight of a mammal particularly a human preferably 0.1 mg to about 2.5 mg per kg in single or divided doses and preferably in a single daily dose. On the other hand it may be necessary to use dosages outside these limits in some cases.

In the case where an oral composition is employed a suitable daily dosage range for human anti asthmatic anti inflammatory anti allergic or anti atherosclerotic use is e.g. from about 1 mg to about 200 mg and more particularly from about 10 mg to about 150 mg preferably in a single daily dose. For example for anti asthmatic use a daily dosage amount can range from about 10 mg to about 100 mg for example 10 mg 50 mg or 100 mg may be employed. For COPD treatment a daily dosage amount could be for example 100 mg and for atherosclerosis treatment a daily dosage amount could be for example 150 mg. However suitable daily dosage amounts are not limited to these examples. Tablets and capsules such as dry filled capsules are preferred oral formulations for use in adult patients. Chewable or oral disintegrating formulations may also be used particularly for formulation intended for the pediatric population.

For inhaled formulations the dosage amount per administration is generally lower than that for an oral formulation such as a tablet or capsule. For example a daily dose of the active compound administered via an inhaled formulation may range from 0.010 mg to 10 mg and particularly from 0.010 mg to 2.5 mg. Single or multiple inhaled doses may be used per day but a single inhaled dose is preferred.

The active compound may be used for the prevention and or treatment in children of asthma as well as allergic rhinitis. For pediatric use the daily dosage range is expected to be lower than that for adult use. For example a suitable pediatric daily dosage amount may range from 1 mg to 200 mg per day and particularly from 1 mg to 50 mg per day. Dosage amounts contained in oral formulations and inhaled formulations for pediatric use would need to be adjusted accordingly. A single daily dose is preferred although divided doses can be used. Preferred pediatric oral formulations include an oral granule formulation e.g. a sprinkle chewable tablets and oral disintegrating solid formulations such as a disintegrating tablet. Drinkable syrups may also be employed. Taste masking technology may be employed with these or any other formulations described herein as needed.

For use where a composition for intravenous administration is employed a suitable daily dosage range for anti asthmatic anti inflammatory anti atherosclerotic or anti allergic use is from about 0.001 mg to about 25 mg preferably from 0.01 mg to about 1 mg of a compound of this invention per kg of body weight per day and for cytoprotective use from about 0.1 mg to about 100 mg preferably from about 1 mg to about 100 mg and more preferably from about 1 mg to about 10 mg of a compound of this invention per kg of body weight per day. For the treatment of diseases of the eye ophthalmic preparations for ocular administration comprising 0.001 1 by weight solutions or suspensions of the compounds of this invention in an acceptable ophthalmic formulation may be used.

For cytoprotective use a suitable daily dosage range is from 0.1 mg to about 100 mg preferably from about 1 mg to about 100 mg and more preferably from about 10 mg to about 100 mg of a compound of this invention per kg of body weight per day. The exact amount of a compound of this invention to be used as a cytoprotective agent will depend on inter alia whether it is being administered to heal damaged cells or to avoid future damage on the nature of the damaged cells e.g. gastrointestinal ulcerations vs. nephrotic necrosis and on the nature of the causative agent. An example of the use of a compound of this invention in avoiding future damage would be co administration of a compound of this invention with an NSAID that might otherwise cause such damage for example indomethacin . For such use the compound of this invention is administered from 30 minutes prior up to 30 minutes after administration of the NSAID. Preferably it is administered prior to or simultaneously with the NSAID for example in a combination dosage form . An oral formulation is preferred.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention comprise a salt of Compound I of this invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and optionally other therapeutic ingredients. The salt of Compound I in the pharmaceutical compositions may be in the amorphous form or may be a crystalline form such as a crystalline form characterized hereinabove. Any suitable route of administration may be employed for providing a mammal especially a human with an effective dosage of a compound of the present invention. For example oral rectal topical parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular and intravenous ocular ophthalmic pulmonary nasal or buccal inhalation and the like may be employed although the most suitable route in any given case will depend on the nature and severity of the condition being treated. They may be conveniently presented in unit dosage form and prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Dosage forms include for example tablets troches dispersions suspensions solutions capsules including dry filled capsules creams ointments aerosols and the like. Oral formulations are preferred for uses related to asthma COPD allergic rhinitis atherosclerosis and prevention of atherosclerotic disease events. Additionally inhaled formulations are desirable for treatment of asthma COPD and allergic rhinitis. Other formulations may be used consistent with the nature of the condition being treated.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention suitable for oral administration may be presented as discrete units such as capsules cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient as a powder or granules or as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous liquid a non aqueous liquid an oil in water emulsion or a water in oil liquid emulsion. Such compositions may be prepared by any of the methods of pharmacy but all methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more necessary ingredients. In general the compositions are prepared by uniformly and intimately admixing the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product into the desired presentation. For example a tablet may be prepared by compression or molding optionally with one or more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered compound moistened with an inert liquid diluent. Desirably each solid dosage form e.g. tablet or capsule contains from about 1 mg to about 200 mg of the active ingredient on a free base weight basis for example but not limited to 1 mg 5 mg 10 mg 20 mg 25 mg 30 mg 40 mg 50 mg 60 mg 70 mg 75 mg 80 mg 90 mg 100 mg 125 mg 150 mg 175 mg and 200 mg.

For administration by inhalation the salts of Compound I of the present invention are conveniently delivered in the form of an aerosol suitable for pulmonary drug delivery. These aerosol dosage forms include but are not limited to nebulized solutions and suspensions metered dose inhalers or dry powder inhalers. For nebulization the active ingredient s are typically formulated in an aqueous vehicle and administered by jet or electronic devices capable of generating a fine aerosol cloud. Metered dose inhalers MDI use propellants such as hydrofluorocarbons to solubilize or suspend the active ingredient in a pressurized container capable of generating the disperse aerosol. For dry powder inhalation the salts of Compound I are used alone or with excipients in conjunction with a delivery device capable for delivery of the active substance to the lung.

Suitable topical formulations of a compound of this invention include transdermal devices aerosols creams ointments lotions dusting powders and the like.

In practical use the salts of Compound I of this invention can be combined as the active ingredient in intimate admixture with a pharmaceutical carrier according to conventional pharmaceutical compounding techniques. The carrier may take a wide variety of forms depending on the form of preparation desired for administration e.g. oral or parenteral including intravenous . In preparing the compositions for oral dosage form any of the usual pharmaceutical media may be employed such as for example water glycols oils alcohols flavoring agents preservatives coloring agents and the like in the case of oral liquid preparations such as for example suspensions elixirs and solutions or carriers such as starches sugars microcrystalline cellulose diluents granulating agents lubricants binders disintegrating agents and the like in the case of oral solid preparations such as for example powders capsules and tablets with the solid oral preparations being preferred over the liquid preparations. Because of their ease of administration tablets and capsules represent the most advantageous oral dosage unit form in which case solid pharmaceutical carriers are obviously employed. If desired tablets may be coated by standard aqueous or nonaqueous techniques.

In addition to the common dosage forms set out above the salts of Compound I of this invention may also be administered by controlled release means and or delivery devices such as those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 845 770 3 916 899 3 536 809 3 598 123 3 630 200 4 008 719 and 5 366 738 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The following are examples of representative pharmaceutical dosage forms for the salts of Compound I of this invention referred to as Active Compound 

The instant invention also encompasses a process for preparing a pharmaceutical composition comprising combining a compound of this invention with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Also encompassed is the pharmaceutical composition which is made by combining a compound of this invention with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

A therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for treating or preventing any of the medical conditions described herein in dosage amounts described herein. For example a compound of this invention can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for preventing or reducing the risk of developing atherosclerotic disease halting or slowing the progression of atherosclerotic disease once it has become clinically manifest and preventing or reducing the risk of a first or subsequent occurrence of an atherosclerotic disease event. Additionally a compound of this invention can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for the treatment of asthma allergies and allergic conditions inflammation COPD or erosive gastritis. The medicament comprised of a compound of this invention may also be prepared with one or more additional active agents such as those described below.

One or more additional active agents may be used in combination with the compounds of this invention in a single dosage formulation or the active agents of the combination may be administered to the patient in separate dosage formulations which allows for concurrent or sequential administration of the active agents. Unless otherwise specified reference herein to compounds of this invention being used in combination with other active agents or used as part of combination therapy or the like encompasses both a single pharmaceutical composition comprised of a compound of this invention with one or more additional active agents as well as a pharmaceutical composition comprised of a compound of this invention administered as part of a combination therapy with one or more other separately formulated active agents.

In addition to the compounds of this invention the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can also contain other active agents i.e. ingredients and the pharmaceutical compositions comprised of a compound of this invention may be used for combination therapy with one or more other separately formulated active agents such as cyclooxygenase inhibitors non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs peripheral analgesic agents such as zomepirac diflunisal and the like. The weight ratio of the compound of this invention to the second active ingredient may be varied and will depend upon the effective dose of each ingredient. Generally an effective dose of each will be used. Thus for example when a compound of this invention is combined with an NSAID the weight ratio of the compound of said compound to the NSAID will generally range from about 1000 1 to about 1 1000 preferably about 200 1 to about 1 200. Combinations of a compound of this invention and other active ingredients will generally also be within the aforementioned range but in each case an effective dose of each active ingredient should be used.

NSAIDs can be characterized into five groups 1 propionic acid derivatives for example alminoprofen benoxaprofen bucloxic acid carprofen fenbufen fenoprofen fluprofen flurbiprofen ibuprofen indoprofen ketoprofen miroprofen naproxen oxaprozin pirprofen pranoprofen suprofen tiaprofenic acid and tioxaprofen 2 acetic acid derivatives for example indomethacin which is a preferred NSAID acemetacin alclofenac clidanac diclofenac fenclofenac fenclozic acid fentiazac furofenac ibufenac isoxepac oxpinac sulindac tiopinac tolmetin zidometacin and zomepirac 3 fenamic acid derivatives such as flufenamic acid meclofenamic acid mefenamic acid niflumic acid and tolfenamic acid 4 oxicams for example isoxicam piroxicam sudoxicam and tenoxican and 5 biphenylcarboxylic acid derivatives for example diflunisal and flufenisal or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In addition to indomethacin other preferred NSAIDs are acetyl salicylic acid diclofenac fenbufen fenoprofen flurbiprofen ibuprofen ketoprofen naproxen phenylbutazone piroxicam sulindac and tolmetin. Pharmaceutical compositions and combinations comprising compounds of this invention may also contain inhibitors of the biosynthesis of the leukotrienes such as are disclosed in EP 138 481 Apr. 24 1985 EP 115 394 Aug. 8 1984 EP 136 893 Apr. 10 1985 and EP 140 709 May 8 1985 which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The compounds of this invention may also be used in combination with leukotriene antagonists such as those disclosed in EP 106 565 Apr. 25 1984 and EP 104 885 Apr. 4 1984 which are hereby incorporated herein by reference and others known in the art such as those disclosed in EP Application Nos. 56 172 Jul. 21 1982 and 61 800 Jun. 10 1982 and in U.K. Patent Specification No. 2 058 785 Apr. 15 1981 which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Pharmaceutical compositions and combinations comprising compounds of this invention may also contain as the second active ingredient or be used in combination therapy with prostaglandin antagonists such as those disclosed in EP 11 067 May 28 1980 or thromboxane antagonists such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 237 160. They may also contain or be used with histidine decarboxylase inhibitors such as fluoromethylhistidine described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 325 961. The compounds of this invention may also be advantageously combined with an Hor H receptor antagonist such as for instance acetamazole aminothiadiazoles disclosed in EP 40 696 Dec. 2 1981 benadryl cimetidine famotidine framamine histadyl phenergan ranitidine terfenadine and like compounds such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 283 408 4 362 736 and 4 394 508. The pharmaceutical compositions may also contain or be used in combination with a K H ATPase inhibitor such as omeprazole disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 255 431 and the like. Compounds of this invention may also be usefully combined with most cell stabilizing agents such as 1 3 bis 2 carboxychromon 5 yloxy 2 hydroxypropane and related compounds described in British Patent Specifications 1 144 905 and 1 144 906. Another useful pharmaceutical composition comprises compounds of this invention in combination with serotonin antagonists such as methysergide the serotonin antagonists described in 316 126 131 1985 and the like. Each of the references referred to in this paragraph is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Other advantageous pharmaceutical combinations comprise the compounds of this invention in combination with anti cholinergics such as ipratropium bromide and tiotropium bronchodilators such as the beta agonist salbutamol metaproterenol terbutaline fenoterol salmeterol formoterol and the like and the anti asthmatic drugs theophylline choline theophyllinate and enprofylline the calcium antagonists nifedipine diltiazem nitrendipine verapamil nimodipine felodipine etc. and the corticosteroids hydrocortisone methylprednisolone betamethasone dexamethasone beclomethasone and the like.

Particularly for the prophylaxis and treatment of asthma compounds of this invention can be used in combination with orally inhaled corticosteroids such as beclomethasone e.g. QVAR Inhalation Aerosol budesonide e.g. Pulmicort Respules flunisolide e.g. AEROBID and AEROBID M Inhaler System fluticasone e.g. FLOVENT DISKUS inhalation powder FLOVENT HFA Inhalation Aerosol mometasone e.g. ASMANEX TWISTHALER and triamcinolone e.g. AZMACORT Inhalation Aerosol and also with inhaled corticosteroid LABA products such as fluticasone propionate salmeterol e.g. ADVAIR DISKUS . The instant compounds could also be used in combination with leukotriene receptor antagonists such as montelukast e.g. SINGULAIR phosphodiesterase 4 PDE4 inhibitors such as roflumilast N Cyclopropyl 1 3 1 oxido 3 pyridinylethynyl phenyl 1 4 dihydro 1 8 naphthyridin 4 one 3 carboxamide and the compounds disclosed in PCT Publication WO2003 018579 and Very Late Antigen 4 VLA4 inhibitors such as the compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 229 011 particularly R411 N 2 Chloro 6 methylbenzoyl 4 2 6 dichlorobenzoyl amino L phenylalanine 2 diethylamino ethyl ester which is an ester pro drug of the active moiety N 2 chloro 6 methylbenzoyl 4 2 6 dichlorobenzoyl amino L phenylalanine and the compounds disclosed in PCT publication WO2006 023396.

Furthermore additional active agents such as anti atherosclerotic agents anti diabetes agents anti obesity agents and agents used for the treatment of metabolic syndrome may be used in combination with the compounds of this invention. The additional active agent or agents can be lipid altering compounds such as HMG CoA reductase inhibitors or agents having other pharmaceutical activities or agents that have both lipid altering effects and other pharmaceutical activities. Examples of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors useful for this purpose include statins in their lactonized or dihydroxy open acid forms and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof including but not limited to lovastatin MEVACOR see U.S. Pat. No. 4 342 767 simvastatin ZOCOR see U.S. Pat. No. 4 444 784 dihydroxy open acid simvastatin particularly the ammonium or calcium salts thereof pravastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof PRAVACHOL see U.S. Pat. No. 4 346 227 fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof LESCOL see U.S. Pat. No. 5 354 772 atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt thereof LIPITOR see U.S. Pat. No. 5 273 995 pitavastatin also referred to as NK 104 see PCT international publication number WO 97 23200 and rosuvastatin CRESTOR see U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 440 . Additional active agents which may be employed in combination with a compound of this invention include but are not limited to HMG CoA synthase inhibitors cholesterol absorption inhibitors such as ezetimibe ZETIA which is 1 4 fluorophenyl 3 R 3 S 4 fluorophenyl 3 hydroxypropyl 4 S 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 azetidinone described in U.S. Pat. Nos. Re. 37721 and 5 846 966 as well as a fixed dose combination of ezetimibe and simvastatin VYTORIN HDL raising agents such as cholesterol ester transfer protein CETP inhibitors for example JTT 705 Japan Tobacco Company squalene epoxidase inhibitors squalene synthetase inhibitors also known as squalene synthase inhibitors acyl coenzyme A cholesterol acyltransferase ACAT inhibitors including selective inhibitors of ACAT 1 or ACAT 2 as well as dual inhibitors of ACAT1 and 2 microsomal triglyceride transfer protein MTP inhibitors probucol niacin bile acid sequestrants LDL low density lipoprotein receptor inducers platelet aggregation inhibitors for example glycoprotein IIb IIIa fibrinogen receptor antagonists and aspirin human peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma PPAR agonists including the compounds commonly referred to as glitazones for example troglitazone pioglitazone and rosiglitazone and including those compounds included within the structural class known as thiazolidinediones as well as those PPAR agonists outside the thiazolidinedione structural class PPAR agonists such as clofibrate fenofibrate including micronized fenofibrate and gemfibrozil PPAR dual agonists such as muraglitazar vitamin B also known as pyridoxine and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof such as the HCl salt vitamin B also known as cyanocobalamin folic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof such as the sodium salt and the methylglucamine salt anti oxidant vitamins such as vitamin C and E and beta carotene beta blockers angiotensin II antagonists such as losartan and losartan with hydrochlorothiazide angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors such as enalapril and captopril calcium channel blockers such as nifedipine and diltiazam endothelian antagonists agents that enhance ABC1 gene expression FXR and LXR ligands including both inhibitors and agonists bisphosphonate compounds such as alendronate sodium and cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors such as rofecoxib etoricoxib and celecoxib. Anti obesity agents can be employed in combination with a compound of this invention including but not limited to sibutramine orlistat topiramate naltrexone bupriopion phentermine and phentermine topiramate combination QNEXA NPY5 antagonists Acetyl CoA Carboxylase 1 and 2 ACC inhibitors MCH1R antagonists and CB1 antagonists inverse agonists such as those described in WO03 077847 and WO05 000809. Additional anti diabetes agents which may be employed in combination with a compound of this invention include but are not limited to DPP 4 dipeptidylpeptidase 4 inhibitors such as sitagliptin JANUVIA and vildagliptin GALVUS sulfonylureas e.g. chlorpropamide tolazamide glyburide glipizide and glimepiride biguanides e.g. metformin alpha glucosidase inhibitors e.g. acarbose and miglitol meglitinides e.g. repaglinide glucagon receptor antagonists and glucokinase activators.

Step A A process for making Compound I is described in Example 7 of WO2006 099735. A 50 mg ml Compound I stock solution was prepared by dissolving 1250 mg of Compound I free base in 25 ml of methanol. 200 uL of the Compound I stock solution was dispensed to each well in a 96 well plate resulting in 10 mg 0.02158 mmol of Compound I per well. Next a different acid was dispensed to each of columns 1 5 7 9 and 11 on the masterplate. To form the salts The acids were manually transferred as 0.1M acid stock solutions to each well in columns as indicated below with the exception of HBr HCl and acetic acid in columns 6 10 and 12 respectively which were added after the GeneVac step described below . 216 uL of the 0.1M acid stock solution was added per well on the 96 well masterplate resulting in a 1 1 mole ratio of acid to Compound I. Next the 96 well plate was placed in the GeneVac centrifugal evaporator to evaporate the solvents. HCl HBr and acetic acid were added to columns 10 6 and 12 respectively as 1M solutions 1M HCl in diethyl ether 1M HBr in MeOH and 1M acetic acid in MeOH respectively after the GeneVac step to prevent the acids from being removed in the centrifugal evaporator. The plate was evaporated for 2.5 hours at 1800 rpm 35 C. under 2 6 mbar vacuum until dry. The 96 well plate was mapped by columns acids and rows solvents see Step B below . The acid and solvent mapping of the 96 well plate was as follows 

Step B Addition of crystallization solvents The crystallization solvents described above for Rows A H were dispensed 800 uL well to the masterplate from Step A. The 96 well plate was capped and placed on the deck of a Cavro robot to equilibrate for 3 hours while stirring at 30 C. While warm the master plate was manually sampled into two crystallization plates Cooling 285 uL and Evaporation 300 uL . The cooling plate was cooled with a cubic cool down temperature profile from 65 10 C. over 10 hours. The cooling plate was equilibrated at 10 C. for 2 hours and then warmed to 20 C. for analysis. The evaporation plate was left uncapped in a hood overnight to allow evaporation of the solvents. The following day each experiment was wicked to remove the remaining solvent and the plates were removed for analysis. The possible leads from the two studies evaporative and cooling were identified by XRPD and cross polarized light microscopy. Four possible different crystalline leads were identified in the initial acid salt screen as containing crystalline material by XRPD with noticeable differences in the diffractograms with respect to the starting freebase and the bulk acids. These four crystalline leads were selected for scale up experiments as described in Example 2.

1000 uL of the 50 mg ml stock solution of Compound I free base 0.1079 mmol was added into each of ten 4 mL scale up reaction vials. Following the Compound I free base stock solution dispense 1 mole equivalent 0.1079 mmol of acid was added to each scale up experiment. The scale up experiments were then placed into the GeneVac to evaporate off the additional solvents. The crystallization solvents were manually dispensed to each scale up experiment 2 mL total solvent volume per vial . See Table 1 for complete composition of the scale up experiments. The cooling scale up experiments were capped and placed in a 65 C. Torrey Pines oven to equilibrate for 3 hours.

The cooling scale up experiments vials A1 and A2 were cooled with a cubic cool down temperature profile from 65 10 C. over 10 hours. The cooling scale up experiments were equilibrated at 10 C. for 2 hours and then warmed to 20 C. The cooling scale up experiment A2 was removed from the oven and no solids were observed. This scale up experiment was then uncapped and allowed to concentrate at ambient temperature in an attempt to induce crystallization. The evaporative scale up experiments vials A3 and A4 were uncapped and allowed to concentrate at ambient temperature. The isolated solids from scale up experiments were analyzed under a cross polarized light microscope and by thermogravimetry analysis TGA DSC and by XRPD.

Experiment A4 generated the acetic acid salt of Compound I as an amorphous gel. Experiments A1 and A3 generated a crystalline tosylate salt of Compound I. The isolated solids from Experiment A1 showed a gradual weight loss of 0.61 wt possibly due to the loss of residual solvent occurring between 23.4 C. and 179.7 C. and decomposition after 180.0 C. by TGA. The differential scanning calorimetry DSC curve shows a single sharp endotherm melt which has an onset at 162.9 C. and a peak max at 166.0 C. By proton NMR the isolated solid appears to contain a 1 1 mixture of p toluenesulfonic acid Compound I.

Experiment A2 generated a crystalline besylate salt of Compound I. The X ray powder diffractogram XRPD of the isolated solids from Experiment A2 is shown in Figure . This material shows a gradual weight loss of 4.3 wt possibly due to the loss of residual solvent occurring between 19.8 C. and 199.4 C. and decomposition after 200.0 C. by TGA. The DSC curve shows a single small endotherm which has an onset at 62.5 C. and a peak max at 64.9 C. A thermal event or step which occurred at 144.8 C. was also observed on the DSC. By proton NMR the isolated solid appears to contain a 1 1 mixture of benzenesulfonic acid Compound I.

Benzenesulfonic acid salt Solid Compound 1 400 mg 0.86 mmol was dissolved in 1 2 dichloroethane 4 mL . A solution of benzenesulfonic acid hydrate 137 mg 0.86 mmol in 1 2 dichloroethane 5 mL was added. Hexane 1 mL was added and a precipitate began forming. The slurry was stirred for 15 min concentrated suspended in hexane 30 mL and filtered. The solids were washed with hexane 30 mL and dried on the frit to afford Compound I besylate salt as a grayish white solid 454 mg. The solid was recrystallized from 2 propanol hexane to afford an off white solid.

p Toluenesulfonic acid salt Solid Compound 1 400 mg 0.86 mmol was dissolved in 1 2 dichloroethane 5 mL . Solid p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 164 mg was added and the mixture was heated at 70 C. for 5 min for complete dissolution. The solution was cooled to room temperature and hexane 2 mL was added. The slurry was filtered and washed with hexane 30 mL and dried on the frit to afford Compound I tosylate as a white solid 450 mg.

To a 100 mL round bottom flask containing a crude solution of Compound I 5.4 g in about 15.5 mL iPAc was added iPAc 40 mL and the mixture was stirred at rt for 16 h. Stirring was stopped and the precipitated solids were removed by decantation. Assay of the supernatant indicated 5.2 g of Compound I

p Toluene sulfonic acid monohydrate 2.172 g 11.418 mmol was charged to iPAc 13.2 mL and the suspension was warmed to 60 C. and stirred until complete dissolution of TsOH approx 5 min . To the hot TsOH solution 60 C. in iPAc the solution of Compound I was added over 2 h. After 20 of free base solution was added addition was stopped. Seed 1 mg Compound I tosylate salt were added and the mixture was stirred for 10 min. Addition of free base was then continued. After the end of the addition the batch was gradually cooled to room temperature over 2 h and let stir at room temperature for 16 h. The agitation was stopped and the batch was filtered. The filter cake was suspended in iPAc 40 mL filtered re suspended in iPAc 40 mL and filtered. The solids were then transferred to a vacuum oven at 30 C. and dried for 18 h to obtain the title compound.

 Basis 1.00 mole 463.38 g of Compound I in a solution of 10 11.5 volumes 4634 5329 mL of Isopropyl Acetate 

p Toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate p TSA 1.00 mole 190.22 g is dissolved in 1158 mL of isopropyl acetate IPAc . The slurry is heated to 57 60 C. to dissolve the pTSA and aged for 30 minutes. Dissolution is confirmed by visual inspection of a sample of the mixture. The mixture is filtered hot 57 60 C. and follow flushed with 463 mL of 57 60 C. isopropyl acetate.

To supersaturate the batch 25 of a solution of Compound I in IPAc typically approx. 10.7 wt is combined with the pTSA IPAc mixture at 57 60 C. Neat IPAc is charged to the vessel to achieve a target of 9 10 wt Compound I tosylate salt. The batch is seeded with 4.6 grams 1 wt based on Compound I of the tosylate salt and the seed bed is aged for 30 minutes at 57 60 C. The remaining 75 of the solution of Compound I in IPAc is charged to the batch over 2 3 hours maintaining the batch temperature at 57 60 C. A controlled cooldown of the batch to 20 25 C. over three hours is performed followed by a 2 hour age at 15 25 C. The slurry is then wet milled at 15 20 C. until steady state particle size is achieved. An optional heat cool cycle can be performed for the dissolution of fines. The heat cool cycle consists of heating the batch to 57 60 C. aging for 15 minutes and then cooling to 20 C. over 3 hours. After aging the batch for at least 2 hours at 15 20 C. the batch is filtered. Two displacement washes of the cake with 1854 mL of isopropyl acetate are performed. A third displacement wash with 1390 mL of isopropyl acetate is charged directly to the filter. The cake is dried with vacuum and a nitrogen sweep at 55 60 C. until 

 Basis 0.0344 mole 15.96 assay g of Compound I in a solution of 13.5 15.4 volumes 216 246 mL of isopropyl acetate 

To the seed vessel is charged 57.8 mL IPAc followed by 0.289 g of wet milled Compound I tosylate salt to saturate the solution. The mixture is heated to 57 60 C. and then 1.59 g of wet milled Compound I tosylate salt 10 wt seed based on Compound I is added to the vessel. In a separate vessel 0.0344 mole of p toluenesulfonic acid mono hydrate 6.55 g is dissolved in 84 mL of isopropyl acetate. The slurry is heated to 57 60 C. to dissolve the pTSA and aged for 30 minutes. Dissolution is confirmed by visual inspection of a sample of the mixture. The pTSA solution is then cooled to 15 25 C. The pTSA solution and a solution of Compound I in IPAc 0.0344 mole 15.96 assay g in 216 246 mL of IPAc are then added simultaneously to the seed vessel over 10 hours maintaining the crystallization vessel at 57 60 C. A controlled cooldown of the batch to 15 25 C. over three hours is performed followed by a 2 hour age at 15 25 C. The batch is then filtered. Two displacement washes of the cake with 63.8 mL of isopropyl acetate are performed. The cake is dried with vacuum and a nitrogen sweep at 55 60 C. until 

While the invention has been described and illustrated with reference to certain particular embodiments thereof those skilled in the art will appreciate that various changes modifications and substitutions can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example effective dosages other than the particular dosages as set forth herein above may be applicable as a consequence of variations in the responsiveness of the mammal being treated for any of the indications for the active agent used in the instant invention as indicated above. It is intended therefore that the invention be defined by the scope of the claims which follow and that such claims be interpreted as broadly as is reasonable.

