---

title: Gas dynamic virtual nozzle for generation of microscopic droplet streams
abstract: A nozzle for producing a single-file stream of droplets of a fluid, methods using the nozzle, and an injector, comprising the nozzle of the invention, for providing the single-file stream of droplets of a fluid to a high-vacuum system are described. The nozzle comprises two concentric tubes wherein the outer tube comprises a smoothly converging-diverging exit channel and the outlet end of the first tube is positioned within the converging section of the exit channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08272576&OS=08272576&RS=08272576
owner: Arizona Board of Regents, a body corporate acting for and on behalf of Arizona State University
number: 08272576
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080620
---
This application claims the benefit of the filing date under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 945 809 filed 22 Jun. 2007 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention described herein was made in part with government support under grant nos. 0429814 and DBI 0555845 awarded by National Science Foundation and award W911NF 05 1 0152 from the Army Research Office. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention is related generally to methods and devices for forming streams of single file sub micron sized droplets and uses thereof.

Analysis and manipulation of particles such as proteins or other biological molecules often requires introducing or injecting the particle into vacuum where the particle must maintain its native conformation. Examples of particle manipulation or analysis that may require particle injection into vacuum include molecular structure determination spectroscopy particle deposition onto a substrate to produce for example sensor arrays nanoscale free form fabrication formation of novel low temperature forms of particle containing complexes bombardment of particles by laser light x ray radiation neutrons or other energetic beams controlling or promoting directed free space chemical reactions possibly with nanoscale spatial resolution and separating analyzing or purifying these particles.

Therefore for many technological and scientific applications the ability to form a single file beam of microscopic liquid droplets is of great interest. Thus methods and devices for providing streams of particles that are adapted for injection of the particle into vacuum would be of great benefit to these various fields.

In a first aspect the invention provides a nozzle comprising i a first tube comprising a first inner diameter a first outer diameter a first inlet orifice and an outlet orifice and ii a second tube comprising a second inner diameter a second inlet orifice an exit channel comprising an exit orifice comprising an exit diameter a channel length comprising the total distance from the first outlet orifice to the exit orifice and a channel minimum diameter at a position along the channel length wherein the channel minimum diameter is less than the second inner diameter and a convergent section wherein the inner diameter of the second tube decreases from the second inner diameter to the channel minimum diameter wherein the first tube is contained within the second tube and the outlet orifice is within the convergent section and aligned with the exit orifice.

In a second aspect the invention provides a method for producing a single file stream of droplets comprising the steps of providing a nozzle according to the first aspect of the invention injecting a first fluid through the first inlet orifice and a second fluid through the second inlet orifice wherein the first and second fluids are both forced through the exit channel to produce a stream of the first fluid having a stream diameter less than the first inner diameter the stream breaks up within the exit channel or downstream of the exit channel to produce a single file stream of droplets and the exit orifice outputs the fluid stream or the single file stream of droplets.

In a third aspect the invention provides an injector comprising i a chamber comprising a vacuum orifice and an injector orifice for injecting into the high vacuum system wherein the chamber is adapted for use with a high vacuum analysis system and ii a nozzle according to the first aspect of the invention wherein the exit orifice of the nozzle outputs to the chamber and is essentially aligned with the injector orifice.

The nozzle of the invention comprises two concentric tubes a first and second tube wherein separate fluids may be introduced into each tube and both fluids exit the nozzle through the same orifice in the second tube.

The first tube is the inner tube of the two concentric tubes. Each of the first and second tube comprise the same or differing materials for example one of both of the tubes may comprise glass or metal such as stainless steel.

Each tube may have any geometric cross section however it is preferred that each tube has an elliptical or circular cross section. More preferably each tube has a circular cross section. For example one or both of the first and second tubes is a capillary tube preferably each is a capillary tube.

One embodiment of the nozzle of the invention is shown in . In this embodiment the nozzle comprises first and second concentric tubes. The first tube comprises a first inner diameter a first outer diameter a first inlet orifice and an outlet orifice . The second tube comprises a second inner diameter a second inlet orifice and an exit channel . The exit channel comprises an exit orifice comprising an exit diameter a channel length comprising the total distance from the first outlet orifice to the exit orifice and a channel minimum diameter at some position along the channel length wherein the channel minimum diameter is less than the second inner diameter . The second tube further comprises a convergent section wherein the inner diameter of the second tube decreases from the second inner diameter to the channel minimum diameter . In the nozzle of the invention the outlet orifice of the first tube is within the convergent section of the second tube and aligned with the exit orifice .

The nozzle of the invention operates by providing a first fluid into the first inlet and a second fluid through the second inlet. A fluid cone of the first fluid emanates from the first outlet. In converging to pass through the exit orifice the second fluid introduces dynamic forces on the first fluid forcing the fluid cone of the latter to narrow significantly in diameter and neck down to a linear microthread. The microthread of the first fluid which is smaller in diameter than either the first inner diameter or outlet orifice of the first tube or the fluid cone persists downstream of the outlet orifice. The microthread eventually breaks up via Rayleigh instability yielding a linear stream of droplets of the first fluid that are smaller than the fluid cone from the first tube. Such breakup may occur within the exit channel or downstream of the exit orifice.

The fluid cone emanating from the outlet orifice of the first tube can wet the entire front of the tube attaching at the larger first outer diameter rather than at the much smaller first inner diameter. In a preferred embodiment the outlet orifice end of the first tube is beveled on the outside tapering the first outer diameter to a sharp edge at the first inner diameter at the outlet orifice when used then a narrower fluid cone attaches at the first inner diameter at the outlet orifice.

In the convergent section of the second tube the inner diameter of the second tube decreases from the second inner diameter to the channel minimum diameter. Preferably the inner diameter of the second tube gradually decreases from the second inner diameter to the channel minimum diameter. More preferably the inner diameter of the second tube smoothly decreases from the second inner diameter to the channel minimum diameter. Even more preferably the inner diameter of the second tube gradually and smoothly decreases from the second inner diameter to the channel minimum diameter.

The fluid cone emanating from the outlet orifice of the first tube is reduced in diameter to the microthread diameter within an axial distance that is less than the characteristic gestation length for Rayleigh break up of the microthread. Preferably the reduction in diameter may be accomplished by use of a smoothly varying sidewall that is also as gradually varying as possible under the length constraint imposed by Rayleigh break up. The smooth aerodynamic shape of the transition from the second inner diameter to the channel minimum diameter in the convergent section i.e. the absence of any abrupt changes in sidewall radius or even of sudden changes in sidewall angle allows maintenance of a laminar flow within the exit channel. Further high pressure coaxial gas 50 60 psig may be utilized without loss of the laminar flow in the exit channel. The stream of the fluids can follow the sidewall of the second tube which prevents the streamlines from overshooting on entry to the exit channel i.e. vena contracts . Ultimately laminar flow in the exit channel may be maintained keeping the droplet beam in a straight line form.

The exit channel may have a constant diameter from the channel minimum diameter to the exit orifice. Such a design of the nozzle of the invention is illustrated in . The channel minimum diameter may be greater than or equal to the first inner diameter. However the channel minimum diameter may in other embodiments of the nozzle of the invention be less than the first inner diameter.

Preferably the exit channel is tapered from a point of channel minimum diameter within the exit channel to the exit diameter such that the exit diameter is greater than the channel minimum diameter. For example in the vicinity of the exit orifice the exit channel may make a transition from a smaller channel minimum diameter to a larger exit diameter and approximately constant diameter. This transition may involve an abrupt change in diameter as defined herein or an abrupt change in sidewall angle or a smoothly varying change in diameter or some combination of these. More preferably the exit channel is smoothly tapered from the channel minimum diameter to the exit diameter.

In a preferred embodiment the converging section of the second tube and the exit channel diverging at the exit orifice introduces an hourglass shaped constriction to the first and second fluids. Such a constriction by the exit channel has advantages over a simple channel and provides an increased density of droplets in the single file stream produced by the nozzle of the invention.

In subsonic expansion an expanding fluid decelerates in contrast to a supersonic expansion in which the fluid accelerates. The cross sectional area relief provided by an expanding exit orifice also alleviates boundary layer separation and thereby disruption of the laminar flow within the nozzle. As the fluids exit subsonically through the diverging section of the hourglass constriction the second fluid and the droplets of the first fluid must slow causing the spacing between droplets to decrease proportionally and thereby the linear density of droplets droplets per unit length of beam to increase.

Preferably the first fluid comprises a liquid and the second comprises a gas. In certain preferred embodiments the first fluid further comprises an analyte such first fluids preferably comprise a heterogeneous or homogeneous solution or particulate suspension of the analyte in the first fluid. Preferred first fluids include but are not limited to liquids for example water and various solutions of water containing detergents buffering agents anticoagulants cryoprotectants and or other additives as needed to form analyte containing droplets while maintaining the analyte in a desired molecular conformation. Preferred analytes include but are not limited to proteins protein complexes peptides nucleic acids e.g. DNAs RNAs mRNAs lipids functionalized nanoparticles viruses bacteria and whole cells. The first fluid may be supplied to the first tube by any methods known to those skilled in the art for example using a syringe pump. When the first fluid comprises a liquid it is preferably supplied to the first tube at pressures ranging from about 2 to 35 times atmospheric pressure about 15 500 psig more preferably at pressures ranging from about 10 to 20 times atmospheric pressure about 135 275 psig or pressures ranging from about 15 to 20 times about 200 275 psig atmospheric pressure.

Preferably the second fluid comprises one or more inert gases more preferably the second fluid comprises hydrogen nitrogen carbon dioxide helium neon argon krypton xenon volatile hydrocarbon gases or mixtures thereof. When the second fluid is a gas it is preferably supplied to the second tube at pressures ranging from about 2 to 100 times atmospheric pressure about 15 1500 psig or about 2 to 50 times atmospheric pressure about 15 to 750 psig or about 2 to 25 times atmospheric pressure about 15 to about 375 psig or about 2 to 15 times atmospheric pressure about 15 200 psig or about 2 to 10 times atmospheric pressure about 15 150 psig more preferably at pressures ranging from about 2 to 5 times atmospheric pressure about 15 60 psig or pressures ranging from about 3 to 5 times about 25 60 psig atmospheric pressure or pressures ranging from about 5 to 100 times about 60 1500 psig atmospheric pressure or about 5 to 50 times about 60 750 psig atmospheric pressure or about 5 to 25 times about 60 375 psig atmospheric pressure or about 5 to 15 times about 60 200 psig atmospheric pressure or about 5 to 10 times about 60 150 psig atmospheric pressure or pressures ranging from about 9 to 100 times about 120 1500 psig atmospheric pressure or about 9 to 50 times about 120 750 psig atmospheric pressure or about 9 to 25 times about 120 375 psig atmospheric pressure or about 9 to 15 times about 120 200 psig atmospheric pressure.

The first inner diameter of the first tube may be about 0.1 m to 100 m preferably about 10 m to 100 m. The channel minimum diameter may be about 0.1 m to 100 m preferably about 10 m to 100 m. In other preferred embodiments both the first inner diameter and channel minimum diameter may be each independently about 0.1 m to 100 m more preferably about 10 m to 100 m. The channel length is about 1 to 100 000 times the channel minimum diameter preferably about 10 to 100 times the channel minimum diameter.

In a preferred embodiment the size of the droplets of the first fluid may be adjusted through evaporative shrinkage in the exit channel. For example when the first fluid comprises a liquid e.g. water and an analyte e.g. a protein peptide nucleic acid lipids and the like and the second fluid a gas each of the droplets of the first fluid produced by the nozzle of the invention will contain substantial volumes of the first fluid with respect to the analyte. Passage of the droplet stream through the exit channel with a high aspect ratio e.g. when the exit channel has a channel length of greater than about 10 times the first inner diameter of the first tube preferably when the exit channel has a channel length of greater than about 10 100 000 times the first inner diameter of the first tube more preferably when the exit channel has a channel length of greater than about 10 100 times the first inner diameter of the first tube allows for evaporation of nearly all of the first fluid from the droplets resulting in a stream of droplets which essentially comprise the analyte. The gas pressure of the second fluid temperature and length of the exit channel i.e. the aspect ratio may be chosen to obtain the required first fluid evaporation and shrinkage in droplet size as the droplets pass through the exit channel.

In a more preferred embodiment when the first fluid comprises water and an analyte e.g. a protein peptide nucleic acid lipids and the like and the second fluid a gas then the exit channel has a channel length such that evaporation removes nearly all of the water from the droplets while retaining a water coating to maintain the analyte in a desired conformation.

Such evaporation is possible only in a high ca. 1 atm pressure since droplets injected into vacuum cool so rapidly that they lose only a few percent of their mass before they cease to evaporate. On the other hand droplets injected into a stagnant gas of high pressure rapidly decelerate due to aerodynamic drag and travel only a few centimeters or millimeters.

In another embodiment of the invention the microthread or single file stream of droplets generated by the nozzle of the invention may be injected into a waveguide capillary tube. The capillary tube may be linear or non linear in extent and about 1 to 100 cm long the preferred length is about 1 10 cm. When the microthread is injected into the capillary tube the microthread may break up within the capillary via Rayleigh instability yielding a single file stream of droplets which travel through the capillary and out of its exit. This injection and transmission occurs even when the capillary is microscopic in inner diameter e.g. about 10 100 m very long e.g. 1 10 cm and even bent through a significant radius of curvature e.g. 10 100 cm . Effectively the capillary behaves as a waveguide for the droplet stream.

By injecting the microthread into a waveguide capillary the requisite high pressure and co flowing second fluid with the droplet stream of the first fluid allows for evaporation of the first fluid from the droplets as discussed previously. The gas pressure of the second fluid temperature and length of the waveguide capillary may be chosen to obtain the required first fluid evaporation and shrinkage in droplet size as the droplets pass through the capillary.

The exit end of the waveguide capillary may be tapered to form a convergent exit opening e.g. about 10 to 100 m preferably about 10 20 m inner diameter thereby physically forcing the gas flow with entrained droplets of the first fluid down to this size. Thus a high concentration of single droplets may be produced within a volume having a lateral extent of about the diameter of the capillary exit.

In other embodiments the exit channel of the second tube may be non linear between the outlet orifice of the first tube and the exit orifice provided that the outlet orifice of the first tube is aligned with the convergent section of the second tube. Due to the laminar flow within the exit channel the exit channel behaves as waveguide for the droplet stream.

The nozzle of the invention may further provide one or more additional elements including an oscillator for introducing controlled acoustic oscillations into one or more fluids passing through the nozzle a heater for heating the nozzle and or a cooler for cooling the nozzle. Controlled acoustic oscillations can be introduced into one or more fluids passing through the nozzle include for example a piezoelectric oscillator pulses of radiant energy including heat and laser pulses electric field pulses and magnetic field pulses. Rayleigh break up of a conventional liquid jet can be triggered by exciting the nozzle assembly with an acoustic vibration of the desired frequency. A piezoelectric oscillator may be attached to the outer wall of the nozzle of the invention and triggers as demonstrated in a periodic single file stream of droplets preferably monodisperse with respect to droplet diameter . The piezoelectric oscillator may alternatively be in direct contact with the first fluid e.g. liquid as far upstream as the reservoir that supplies the first tube or attached to the first tube or housing which provides the second fluid e.g. gas to the second tube. The piezoelectric oscillator may generate a frequency ranging from about 10 1000 kHz preferably piezoelectric oscillator may generate a frequency ranging from about 10 500 kHz 10 400 kHz 10 300 kHz 10 200 kHz or about 50 100 kHz or about 100 200 kHz. In one specific example the piezoelectric oscillator may generate a frequency of about 73 kHz. In another specific example the piezoelectric oscillator may generate a frequency of about 169 kHz.

The nozzle can be heated by for example but not limited to resistive heating tapes infrared and microwave heating sources induction heating bombardment with electrons or other charged particles and convective or conductive heat transfer from a hot gas or liquid. The second tube itself may be resistively heated by providing a current through a selected portion of the tube through attachment and or incorporation of conductive elements e.g. metal contacts conductive glasses such as indium tin oxide onto and or into the second tube. One skilled in the art readily recognizes that the degree of heating provided i.e. the temperature of the nozzle may be controlled by selection of the electrical current passed through and or electrical voltage applied across the heating element. The heater may heat the entire nozzle and or only the exit channel portion of the nozzle. In certain embodiments the heater heats at least the exit channel portion of the nozzle. In other embodiments the heater heats only the exit channel portion of the nozzle. When the nozzle further comprises a waveguide capillary then the heater preferably heats at least the exit channel portion of the nozzle and or the waveguide capillary.

The nozzle can be cooled by for example but not limited to convective or conductive heat transfer to a cold gas or liquid including cryogenic gases and liquids thermoelectric cooling Peltier devices and refrigeration cooling including both conventional and cryogenic refrigerants.

In a second aspect the invention provides a method for producing a single file stream of droplets comprising the steps of providing a nozzle according to the first aspect of the invention injecting a first fluid through the first inlet orifice and a second fluid through the second inlet orifice wherein the first and second fluids are both forced through the exit channel to produce a stream of the first fluid having a stream diameter less than the first inner diameter the stream breaks up within the exit channel or downstream of the exit channel to produce a single file stream of droplets and the exit orifice outputs the fluid stream or the single file stream of droplets.

As discussed previously the nozzle of the invention operates by providing a first fluid into the first inlet and a second fluid through the second inlet. A fluid cone of the first fluid emanates from the first outlet. In converging to pass through the exit orifice the second fluid dynamic forces on the first fluid forcing the latter to narrow significantly in diameter and neck down to a linear microthread. This microthread of the first fluid which is significantly smaller in diameter than either the first inner diameter of the first tube or the outlet orifice persists downstream of the outlet orifice. The microthread eventually breaks up via Rayleigh instability yields a linear stream of droplets that are smaller than the parent jet from the first tube. Such breakup may occur within the exit channel or downstream of the exit orifice.

Preferably the first fluid comprises a liquid and the second comprises a gas. In certain preferred embodiments the first fluid further comprises an analyte such first fluids preferably comprise a heterogeneous or homogeneous solution or particulate suspension of the analyte in the first fluid. In such cases the nozzle produces a stream of droplets of the first fluid. The first fluid may be supplied to the first tube by any methods known to those skilled in the art for example using a syringe pump.

Preferably the droplets formed according to the methods of the invention have a diameter of less than 20 m. More preferably the droplets have a diameter of less than 19 lam 18 m 17 m or 16 m. Even more preferably the droplets have a diameter of less than 15 m 14 m 13 m 12 m 11 m 10 m 9 m 8 m 7 m 6 m 5 m 4 m 3 lam 2 m or 1 m or 100 nm. In other embodiments the droplets formed according to the methods of the invention have a diameter ranging from about 1 to 20 m or about 1 to 19 m or about 1 to 18 m or about 1 to 17 m or about 1 to 16 m or about 1 to 15 m or about 1 to 14 m or about 1 to 13 m or about 1 to 12 m or about 1 to 11 m or about 1 to 10 m or about 1 to 9 m or about 1 to 8 m or about 1 to 7 m or about 1 to 6 m or about 1 to 5 m In other embodiments the droplets formed according to the methods of the invention have a diameter ranging from about 100 nm to 20 m or about 100 nm to 19 m or about 100 nm to 18 m or about 100 nm to 17 m or about 100 nm to 16 m or about 100 nm to 15 m or about 100 nm to 14 m or about 100 nm to 13 m or about 100 nm to 12 m or about 100 nm to 11 m or about 100 nm to 10 m or about 100 nm to 9 m or about 100 nm to 8 m or about 100 nm to 7 m or about 100 nm to 6 m or about 100 nm to 5 m 

In a third aspect the invention provides injectors comprising a chamber comprising a vacuum orifice and an injector orifice wherein the chamber is adapted for use with a high vacuum analysis system and a nozzle according to the first aspect of the invention wherein the exit orifice of the nozzle outputs to the chamber and is essentially aligned with the injector orifice.

The injector of the invention allows for the single file stream of droplets of the first fluid and or analyte to be injected into a high vacuum HV or even ultra high vacuum UHV for analysis. Expansive cooling of the single file stream of droplets is achieved by the nozzle of the invention by injection into a vacuum doing so is accomplished without compromising the vacuum by generation of droplets that are sufficiently small preferably the droplets have a diameter of less than about 10 m more preferably less than about 1 m even more preferably less than about 100 nm or sufficiently cold preferably at or below the temperature at which the equilibrium vapor pressure equals the desired vacuum pressure for water droplets this is 75 C. for HV applications and 120 C. for UHV applications that their evaporative gas load can be handled by the vacuum pumps.

In operating the injector of the invention a vacuum is maintained in the chamber via the vacuum orifice and a stream of droplets is provided by the nozzle as discussed previously. Preferably the vacuum in the injector is maintained at a level less than or equal to the vacuum maintained within the high vacuum system. For example the vacuum in the injector is maintained at about 10to 10mbar. In an embodiment of the invention the injector of the invention further comprises a vacuum pump for providing a vacuum in the first chamber via the vacuum orifice.

In a preferred embodiment of the third aspect the injector orifice comprises a simple aperture. In another preferred embodiment of the third aspect the injector orifice comprises a tube. In a more preferred embodiment of the third aspect the injector orifice further comprises a molecular beam skimmer.

A schematic depiction of one embodiment of an injector of the invention is shown in . The injector of includes a chamber comprising a vacuum orifice and an injector orifice for injecting into the high vacuum system and a nozzle according to the first aspect of the invention wherein the exit orifice of the nozzle outputs to the chamber and is essentially aligned with the injector orifice where the injector orifice further comprises a molecular beam skimmer .

The injector of the invention may further comprise an aligner for aligning the exit orifice of the nozzle with the injector orifice. Such aligners include mechanical alignment such as via thumbscrews or mechano piezoelectric devices such as precision mechanical drives or precision piezoelectric drives that move the capillary laterally and axially with respect to the injector orifice. The aligner may be sealed within the assembly which comprises the injector of the invention and or pass through vacuum seals so that the only physical communication between the nozzle and the surrounding plenum is via the nozzle exit orifice and the only physical communication between the plenum and the surrounding ambient is via the injector orifice.

The term diameter as used herein means the linear distance defined by the maximum transverse extent of the cross section of the object. For example if an object has an elliptical cross section then the diameter of the object is defined by the major axis of the ellipse cross section if an object has a square cross section then the diameter is defined by the diagonal of square cross section.

The term tube as used herein means a hollow elongated object having inner and outer diameters as defined herein and a cross section which is not limited by geometric shape. Preferably a tube has a circular or elliptical cross section.

The exit diameter as used herein means the diameter of the exit channel near or at the exit orifice as follows when the exit diameter is essentially the same as the channel minimum diameter e.g. within 10 preferably 5 then the exit diameter is the diameter of the exit channel at the exit orifice when the exit diameter is greater than the channel minimum diameter then the exit diameter is the diameter of the cross sectional area at the position where the cross sectional area of the exit channel has first increased to at least 90 of its value at the exit orifice. However when there is an abrupt i.e. discontinuous increase in cross sectional area of the exit channel to at least 90 of its value at the exit orifice then the exit diameter is the diameter of the cross sectional area immediately upstream of the abrupt change.

The term aligned as used herein with respect to two orifices means that the vector at the center of a first orifice and normal to the plane defined by the first orifice intersects the plane defined by the second orifice. Preferably the vector at the center of a first orifice and normal to the plane defined by the first orifice intersects and is essentially normal e.g. 90 10 preferably 5 to the plane defined by the second orifice. More preferably the vector at the center of a first orifice and normal to the plane defined by the first orifice intersects and is essentially normal to the plane defined by the second orifice and intersects the plane defined by the second orifice within the boundary of the second orifice.

The term essentially aligned as used herein with respect to two orifices means that the vector at the center of a first orifice and normal to the plane defined by the first orifice intersects and is essentially normal e.g. 90 10 preferably 5 to the plane defined by the second orifice and intersects the plane defined by the second orifice within the boundary of the second orifice. More preferably the vector at the center of a first orifice and normal to the plane defined by the first orifice is essentially normal to the plane defined by the second orifice and intersects the plane defined by the second orifice essentially at the center e.g. within 10 the total diameter of the orifice preferably within 5 of the second orifice.

The term approximately equal as used herein means that the two values differ by less than about 10 . More preferably the two values differ by less than 5 .

The term molecular beam skimmer as used herein means a slender conical shell that is truncated at its apex to yield a circular aperture and fabricated such that the edge of this aperture is extremely sharp preferably having a radius of curvature of only a few microns.

The term gradually as used herein means that the channel diameter D changes only slowly per unit axial length z i.e. that the slope dD dz of the sidewall profile is small at all points preferably small enough to maintain steady laminar flow everywhere within the fluid and to avoid separation or re circulation of the flow at any point.

The term smoothly as used herein means no discontinuities in the sidewall profile either in diameter D and or in slope dD dz i.e. being the representation of a function D z with a continuous first derivative.

The term inert gas as used herein means a gas which will not cause degradation or reaction of the fluids and or any analytes. Such gases preferably contain limited levels of oxygen and or water however the acceptable level of water and or oxygen will depend on the fluids and or analytes and is readily apparent to one skilled in the art. Such atmospheres preferably include gases such as but are not limited to nitrogen helium and argon and mixtures thereof.

The term monodisperse as used herein means the diameters of the particles or droplets differ by less than 30 more preferably less than 10 .

As an illustrative example the procedure for fabricating one version of the nozzle is as follows. A commercial hollow core fused silica optical fiber Polymicro Technologies LLC Phoenix Ariz. of 360 m OD and 20 50 m ID was employed as the first inner tube. A commercial borosilicate glass capillary of 1.2 mm OD and 0.9 mm ID Sutter Instrument Novato Calif. was employed as the second outer tube.

 1 To form the exit channel on the second outer tube the tube was held vertically and the bottom of the tube heated from below with a standard propane torch. The tube was rotated slowly about its axis during this heating in order to maintain a radially symmetric shape. The sidewall of the tube thickens at the tube end and automatically forms a converging exit channel of the desired smoothly varying aerodynamic shape. To prevent the sidewall from collapsing to full closure gas can be blown through the capillary tube during heating if desired. This was generally not necessary when heating with a propane torch but may be necessary if a hotter oxy acetylene torch is used. The required air flow can be generated by simply blowing by mouth into a connecting tube attached to the distal capillary tube a standard glass blowing technique . Alternatively an appropriate gas flow can be generated at either a set flow rate or set pressure from a gas tank.

 2 An external taper was cut onto the front end of the first inner tube by bringing one end of the hollow core optical fiber end into contact with a grinding wheel at an oblique angle. This contact angle was chosen to give the desired angle of taper and the optical fiber was also rotated slowly about its axis during the grinding. Grinding disks of 30 m to 3 m but optionally 9 m grit have been used successfully. Alternatively commercial capillary tubes can be ordered with a front end already ground to a taper by the supplier.

 3 A commercial PEEK tubing sleeve of 635 m OD and 394 m ID was slid onto the optical fiber and positioned about 1.5 cm back from the nozzle end. This is a close barely sliding fit and provides a stop for a PTFE sleeve of 830 m OD and 380 m ID and about 1 cm length that was subsequently slid very carefully onto the optical fiber over the nozzle end. This second sleeve centers the inner tube within the outer to accurately align the tapered nozzle on the first inner tube with the exit channel on the second outer tube. If desired this wall of this sleeve may be carefully shaved down at two or more locations along its periphery to provide clearance for the gas flow through the second outer tube. In general this is not necessary The loose sliding fit of the sleeve into the second outer tube provides sufficient clearance nominally 635 m OD vs. 700 m ID of the second tube for the gas flow in and of itself yet without compromising the transverse alignment.

 4 The two tubes were assembled by either i with the alignment sleeve in place the inner and outer tubes were positioned axially to give a desired separation between capillary exit outlet orifice and nozzle exit channel. A 100 m ID capillary tube was inserted into the distal end of the gas plenum providing a connection through which gas could be supplied to the plenum and the tubes were then permanently glued together and sealed with a drop of epoxy at this junction or ii the outer housing was mounted into one end of the straight run through a 3 way cross making use of a standard HPLC compression fittings for the 1.2 mm OD tube to do so. The second outer tube terminates in the cross and the first inner tube passes through the straight run and out the far end of the cross. The distance between the end of the tapered nozzle and the opening of the exit channel was adjusted as desired and the first inner tube was fixed and sealed into place at the straight run exit by means of a standard HPLC compression fitting for the 360 m OD optical fiber.

 5 The desired driving gas from a pressurized tank via an appropriate gas regulator was connected to the side run of the 3 way cross. The desired droplet liquid was connected to the distal end of the first inner tube generally by means of a syringe pump.

 6 Optionally a small piezoelectric actuator can be clipped to the outside of the outer glass tube of the nozzle to applying a periodic acoustic signal at a frequency near the spontaneous break up frequency to trigger free running droplet beam sources. It was not obvious at the outset however that droplet generation could be triggered in the nozzle in this fashion The applied acoustic signal could only reach the liquid jet circuitously either traveling through the gas flow surrounding the liquid jet or via a long mechanical pathway to the rear of the outer tube and then back forwards through the inner tube.

 7 This assembly was mounted in the appropriate apparatus for use in vacuum or in an ambient gas as desired

A photograph of a working nozzle fabricated according to this procedure is provided in . Top image The region near the tip of the tapered first inner tube and the smoothly converging exit of the second outer tube. Often the first tube is positioned even much closed to the minimum diameter of the exit channel. Middle image Enlarged view of the water cone emerging from the tapered first inner tube with the various components labeled. Bottom image Photograph of one such nozzle laid on top of a penny to emphasize the miniature scale of the device.

The PTFE sleeve that centers the inner capillary tube within the outer glass housing lies just above the top of the photograph and so is not seen in this photograph. Sample liquid was supplied to the inner capillary via either a syringe pump low pressure operation or a gas pressurized liquid reservoir high pressure . The liquid jet emanating from the 50 m ID inner tube is accelerated by the gas flowing through the surrounding outer tube and necks down to exit the nozzle exit channel with a much smaller diameter than that of the liquid supply tube. Accordingly gas dynamic compression is seen to work quite effectively even in this geometry.

Microfluidic devices generally exhibit rather complex flow behavior as a function of drive pressure and our nozzle was no exception with both gas pressure and liquid pressure playing a role. Three principal regimes of behavior were observed 

 1 Dripping At low liquid and low gas pressures large single drops were emitted from the exit orifice of the nozzle exit channel varying from 5 to 50 m in diameter. Doublets or higher order multiplets of droplets were emitted under certain operating conditions often in such a fashion that the individual multiplet droplets coalesced further downstream. The details of these emission and coalescence events could be extremely regular from one to the next.

 2 Unsteady dripping At higher gas pressure but still low liquid pressure a long slender column of liquid was periodically emitted. This column then broke up in flight via Rayleigh instability to yield a finite linear train of droplets.

 3 Jetting At still higher liquid pressure a continuous microthread of liquid emerged and underwent Rayleigh break up to yield a continuous single file train of droplets. When using longer liquid supply lines the pressure necessary to reach the jetting regime was beyond the capacity of a syringe pump and so required use of the gas pressured liquid reservoir. With a 50 m ID capillary of 50 cm length from reservoir to capillary exit 250 psi at the liquid reservoir was typically required to reach. Even higher pressures were needed for jetting from smaller diameter or longer tubes. There was considerable hysteresis in the dripping to jetting transition the transition taking place at higher values as the liquid pressure was being raised than when it was being lowered.

Operation at too low or too high a gas pressure yielded unsatisfactory behavior regardless of liquid pressure. Gas dynamic compression clearly must fail at overly low gas pressure which allows the liquid emerging from the inner capillary to fill the entire nozzle exit channel. At very high pressure the liquid jet would come into contact with the sidewall of the exit channel presumably due to Venturi or inertia effects and this also disrupted the flow.

An optical microscopy system for recording fast single shot images of droplet streams. see Weierstall et al. Exp. Fluids DOI 10.1007 s00348 007 0426 8 2007 and in press 2007 was employed to recording fast single shot images of the droplet trains generated by the nozzle under various operating conditions. Several such images are shown in . Of particular interest was the observation that the nozzle could be triggered by an acoustic vibration applied to the outer glass tube. This is illustrated in for operation in the jetting regime with a spontaneous break up in the absence of an applied acoustic vibration b break up in the presence of a 73 KHz vibration and c break up in the presence of a 169 kHz vibration. Untriggered the initial columnar jet extends beyond the exit orifice of the nozzle exit channel as observed in . With the acoustic trigger signal applied and the break up point moves upstream into the nozzle exit channel and the droplet train becomes monodisperse and periodic. The spacing and size of the droplets varies accordingly as dictated by continuity for a given flow velocity. Triggering in this manner was possible only in the jetting regime and only for low gas pressures. In the dripping regime triggering was not possible nor was it possible to produce a uniform droplet size.

Also of considerable interest was the variation in flow morphology as the driving pressure of the coaxial gas flow was increased. This is illustrated in . At low gas pressures the droplet diameter was roughly twice that of the columnar parent jet consistent with Rayleigh break up triggered at about the spontaneous break up frequency. At high gas pressure high We this was no longer the case rather the droplet diameter was seen to be roughly equal to the jet diameter. This is likely the result of shear forces arising at the free boundary of the liquid jet when operating at the higher gas velocities. These forces become the dominant driving force and triggering by application of an external acoustic signal is no longer possible.

The nozzle of has been successfully operated under HV conditions by surrounding the nozzle with a differential pumping plenum. The small size of the device greatly facilitates this. In fact the entire nozzle system of can replace a single capillary Ganan Calvo design with the gas plenum of that source being used as differential pumping stage and the droplet beam from the nozzle exit orifice exiting through the flat plate orifice into vacuum. Alternatively a condensable gas may be used as the nozzle coaxial gas flow. Using a liquid nitrogen cooled coil cold trap we obtain operating pressures to order of 10Torr in a 10 L vacuum chamber with an estimated pumping speed of 700 L s. When run in vacuum the exit channel of the nozzle is cooled by the free expansion of the outflowing coaxial gas. This can lead to ice formation in the nozzle exit channel if the liquid jet momentarily contacts exit channel wall for example on startup when air bubbles in the liquid line disrupt the liquid flow. Heating the nozzle to remove the ice generally restores normal operation.

We have not yet determined exactly how small a droplet can be produced with our nozzle. The device appears to run in a mode in which liquid is passing out of the nozzle and can be collected downstream yet no droplets are seen in an optical microscope. This would be the case if droplets were too small to be resolved by visible light. We have very recently run our nozzle successfully in a scanning electron microscope SEM imaging microjets of water via electron scattering rather than visible light and hope to test the limits on droplet size using this much higher resolution imaging.

When operated in air the distance over which the droplets maintain a straight line stream decreases with increasing gas pressure. This may be due to the lower inertia of smaller drops as well as increasing effect of turbulence at the higher Reynolds number see Ganan Calvo and Barrero J. Aerosol Sci. 30 117 125 . When operated in vacuum at 10Torr the expanding nozzle gas quickly rarefies to the point of free molecular flow see H. Pauly Springer Berlin 2000 . Under these conditions the straight line form more exactly the parabolic path in the gravitational field persists from a few mm to greater than the length or our apparatus 30 cm depending on the diameter of the jet and proximity of the point of jet break up to the exit orifice. Jets which break up well within the exit orifice may deviate from straight line form upon exiting the orifice.

Slight misalignment of the liquid nozzle within the gas aperture limits our ability to further stretch the jet by increasing the gas pressure As the gas pressure increases the Venturi effect causes a drop in gas pressure at the side of the jet which is closer to the exit channel sidewall deflecting the jet to this side to eventually attach to the sidewall.

