---

title: Synthesis of azido heterocycles
abstract: Energetic candidate azido heterocycles and their synthesis are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08153786&OS=08153786&RS=08153786
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08153786
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080716
---
This application claims the benefit of United States Provisional Application 60 949 932 filed July 16 2007 the entire file wrapper contents of which are incorporated as if set forth at length herein.

The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by the United States Government for United States Government purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

This invention relates generally to the field of energetic compounds and in particular to a method for synthesizing azido heterocycles.

The synthesis and development of new energetic ingredients have attracted the attention of synthetic organic chemists due to their utility in defense military applications. Some of the recent examples in this context include polynitrocyclobutanes 1 3 3 trinitroazeditine hexanitrohexaazaisowurtzitane 2 4 6 8 10 12 hexanitro 2 4 6 8 10 12 hexaazatetracyclo 5.5.0.0.0 dodecane CL 20 and octanitrocubane. See e.g. Archibald T. G. Garver L. C. Baum K. Cohen M. C. Synthesis of polynitrocyclobutane derivatives. J. Org. Chem. 1989 54 12 2869 2873 Archibald T. G. Gilardi R. Baum K. George C. Synthesis and X ray crystal structure of 1 3 3 trinitroazetidine. J. Org. Chem. 1990 55 9 2920 2924. b Axenrod T. Watnick C. Yazdekhasti H. Dave P. R. Synthesis of 1 3 3 trinitroazetidine. Tetrahedron Lett. 1993 34 42 6677 6680. c Katritzky A. R. Cundy D. J. Chen J. Novel syntheses of 1 3 3 trinitroazetidine. J. Heteroccyclic Chem. 1994 31 2 271 275. d Axenrod T. Watnick C. Yazdekhasti H. Dave P. R. Synthesis of 1 3 3 trinitroazetidine via the oxidative nitrolysis of N p tosyl 3 azetidinone oxime. J. Org. Chem. 1995 60 7 1959 1964. e Hiskey M. A. Coburn M. D. Synthesis of 1 3 3 trinitroazetidine. U.S. Pat. No. 5 336 784 Aug. 09 1994. f Marchand A. P. Rajagopal D. Bott S. G. Archibald T. G. A novel approach to the synthesis of 1 3 3 trinitroazetidine. J. Org. Chem. 1995 60 15 4943 4946. g Hayashi K. Kumagai T. Nagao Y. Improved synthesis of an energetic material 1 3 3 trinitroazetidine exploiting 1 azabicyclo 1.1.0 butane. Heterocycles. 2000 53 2 447 452. Nielsen A. T. Chafin A. P. Christian S. L. Moore D. W. Nadler M. P. Nissan R. A. Vanderah D. J. Gilardi R. D. George C. F. Flippen Anderson J. L. Synthesis of Polyazapoly cyclic Caged Polynitramines. Tetrahedron 1998 54 31 11793 11812. b Duddu R. Dave P. R. Processes and compositions for nitration of N substituted isowurtzitanes . . . U.S. Pat. No. 6 015 898 Jan. 18 2000. c Duddu R. Dave P. R. Processes and compositions for nitration of N substituted isowurtzitanes . . . U.S. Pat. No. 6 160 113 Dec. 12 2000. d Sysolyatin S. V. Lobanova A. A. Chernikova Y. T. Sakovich G. V. Methods of synthesis and properties of hexanitrohexaazaisowurtzitane. Russ. Chem. Rev. Russ. Chem. Rev. 2005 74 8 757 764 Zhang M. Eaton P. E. Gilardi R. Hepta and octanitrocubanes. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. . . 2000 39 2 401.

An advance is made in the art according to the principles of the present invention directed novel heterocyclic compounds containing mono and poly azido substitutions and their method of preparation.

More particularly according to an aspect of the present invention Azidoacetyl Pentanitrohexaazaisowurtzitane is prepared from Pentanitrohexaazaisowurtzitane Cyanuric Chloride and Dichlorotetrazine whereby the Pentanitrohexaazaisowurtzitane is reacted with Chloroacetyl Chloide and the reaction products subsequently treated with Sodium Azide in Acetone under reflux conditions.

According to another aspect of the present invention tris triaxidomethylmethyloxy triazine and bis triazidomethylmethyloxytetrazine are prepared by treating Cyanuric Chloride and Dichlorotetrazine with stoichiometric amounts of the sodium salt of triazidoalcohol in Tetrahydrofuran THF under reflux conditions.

In summary successful preparation and isolation of azidoacetylpentanitro hexaazaisowurtzitane tris triazidomethyl methoxytriazine and bis triazidomethyl methoxytetrazine along with X ray structural characterization of and are reported.

The following merely illustrates the principles of the invention. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements which although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the invention and are included within its spirit and scope.

Furthermore all examples and conditional language recited herein are principally intended expressly to be only for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventor s to furthering the art and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions.

Moreover all statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the invention as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally it is intended that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents as well as equivalents developed in the future i.e. any elements developed that perform the same function regardless of structure.

Turning now to there is shown a reaction scheme for the production of azidoacetyl pentanitrohexaazisowurzitane according to an aspect of the present invention. In particular pentanitrohexaazaisowurtzitane See e.g. Bellamy A. J. 31Intl Annual Conference of ICT Karlsruhe Germany Jun. 27 30 2000 109 1 b Lukyanov O. A. Shlykova N. I. Pentanitro and Pentanitroso 2 4 6 8 10 12 hexaazoisowurtzitanes. Russ. Chem. Bull English . 2004 53 3 539 541 c Duddu R. Dave P. R. Damavarapu R. Surapaneni R. Gilardi R. Hydrogenolytic denitration of polynitro compounds. Syn. Comm. 2005 35 20 2709 2714. d Lukyanov O. A. Shlykova N. I. Penatnitro and p entanitroso 2 4 6 8 10 12 hexaazaisowurtzitanes . Russ. Chem. Bull. Int. Ed Engl. Transl. . 2004 53 3 566 568. is reacted with with chloroacetyl chloride to produce a corresponding chloro derivative 2 which upon treatment with sodium azide in acetone under reflux conditions affords azido compound .

With reference now to there is shown a reaction scheme for the production of tris triazidomethylmethyloxy triazine and bis triazidomethylmethyloxytetrazine according to another aspect of the present invention. More particularly cyanauric chloride and dichlorotetrazine See e.g. Chavez D. E. Hiskey M. A. 1 2 4 5 Tetrazine based energetic materials. J. energetic. materials. 1999 17 357 are treated with stochiometric amounts of the sodium salt of triazidoalcohol See e.g. Dave P. R. Duddu R. Damavarapu R. Gelber R. Yang K. Surapaneni C. R. Polyazido compounds . U.S. Pat. No. 6 841 690 B1 Jan. 11 2005. b Dave P. R. Duddu R. G. Gelber N. Yang K. Surpaneni C. R. Preparation of cage molecule based polyazido core units for dendrimer synthesis. Tetrahedron Lett. 2004 45 10 2159 in THF under reflux conditions. The products and after work up were isolated as solids in 72 and 52 yields respectively. Their structures were established unambiguously with single crystal X ray crystallography.

All melting points were recorded by a capillary melting point apparatus and uncorrected. The IR spectra were determined on a Perkin Elmer FT IR Spectrum 2000 spectrometer. H and C NMR spectra were recorded on a Bruker Avance 400 MHz NMR spectrometer with CDCland acetone d6 solvents. The chemical shift values were reported in 6 units part per million relative to TMS as an internal standard.

Azidoacetyl pentanitrohexaazaisowurtzitane A mixture of pentanitro hexaazaisowurtzitane 1.0 gm 2.54 mmol and chloroacetyl chloride 5 ml excess was heated in a sealed tube at 100 C. for 48 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and evaporated to dryness. The residue was treated with ether filtered washed the solid with ether and air dried at room temperature to obtain as a white solid. Yield 0.98 gm 82 . m.p 201 202 C. IR KBr 3040 s 1719 s 1593 br vs 1325 br vs 1275 br vs 1155 m 1045 m 940 s 877 s Cm1 H NMR

 Acetone d6 4.52 s 2H 7.82 br s 1H 7.98 d AB J 8.0 Hz 1H 8.05 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 8.22 d AB J 8.0 Hz 1H 8.28 br s 2H Compound 5 was used as such without any further purification. Thus the chloroacetyl substrate 238 mg 0.50 mmol in acetone 5 mL was treated with sodium azide 0.65 gm 10 mmol and the resulting heterogeneous mixture was refluxed for 12h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and filtered. The filtrate was evaporated and the residue was column chromatographed with si gel 10 ethyl acetate hexane as eluting solvent to afford the product as a white solid. Yield 214 mg 88 . m.p 109 111 C. IR KBr 3040 m 2121 s 1709 s 1595 vs 1397 m 1267 br vs 1165 m 1049 s cm H NMR Acetone d6 4.34 s 2H 7.81 br s 1H 7.96 d AB J 8.0 Hz 1H 8.02 d J 6.6 Hz 1H 8.20 d AB J 8.0 Hz 1H 8.28 br s 2H C NMR Acetone d6 50.80 68.59 71.75 2C 71.82 72.76 76.04 166.43.

Tris triazidomethylmethyloxy triazine 5 A three neck 50 mL round bottom reaction flask equipped with a reflux condenser magnetic stirring bar and a rubber septum was charged with a 95 NaH 84 mg 95 3.3 mmol and dry THF 10 mL under nitrogen atmosphere. To this resulting suspension was added drop wise triazidoalcohol 597 mg 3.03 mmol in dry THF 5 mL via syringe. The mixture was stirred in a preheated 80 C. oil bath for 3h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and was then added in portions cyanuric chloride 184mg 1.0 mmol . After complete addition of cyanuric chloride the reaction mixture was subjected to reflux for 7 days. Reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and poured over crushed ice and extracted with ethylacetate 3x 25 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with water 1x 30 mL brine 1x 30 mL and dried Na2SO4 . Evaporation of the solvent followed by Si gel column chromatography 5 EtOAc Hexane afforded the pure product as a white solid in 72 480 mg yield. m.p. 74 75 C. density 1.473g cc measured by gas pycnometer IR KBr 2933 s 2866 m 2551 m 2527 m 2103 vs 1731 m 1563 vs 1448 vs 1331 vs 1129 vs cm H NMR CDCl 3.91 s 18H 9x CH2 C NMR CDCl 50.76 85.58 and 170.90.

Bis triazidomethylmethyloxytetrazine 7 Reaction was carried out following the reaction conditions as mentioned above using dichlorotetrazine 150 mg 1.0 mmol triazidoalchol 396 mg 2.01 mmol and sodium hydride 49 mg 95 2.01 mmol in THF 15 mL under reflux for 4 days. The pure product was obtained as a fluorescent pink solid in 52 245 mg yield m.p. 111 112 C. IR KBr 2927 w 2115 vs 1695 br m 1445 vs 1406 vs 1303 s 1096 s 1053 s cmH NMR CDCl 3.97 s 12H 6xCH2 C NMR CDCl 50.91 86.05 and 165.28.

Turning now to there is shown a view of the tris triazidomethylmethyloxy triazine omitting H atoms and the B substituent on the triazine ring and a view of the tris triazidomethylmethyloxy triazine omitting H atoms and the C substituent on the triazine ring. The substituents are chemically identical but display different combinations for the torsional conformations of the azido arms. One purpose of this simplification is to show the substituents without mutual overlap.

At this point while we have discussed and described the invention using some specific examples those skilled in the art will recognize that our teachings are not so limited. For example the preferred embodiments of the invention have been provided for the purpose of explaining the principles of the invention and its practical application thereby enabling others skilled in the art to understand the invention. Various embodiments and various modifications are contemplated. Accordingly the invention should be only limited by the scope of the claims attached hereto.

