---

title: Method and system to monitor network conditions remotely
abstract: In an example embodiment, a system and method are illustrated that include receiving a query requesting a task to be performed by a first network device, the query generated by the first network device. Further, the system and method may include transmitting a first command including the task to be performed by the first network device, the task including an instruction for a second network device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07895320&OS=07895320&RS=07895320
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 07895320
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080402
---
Remote monitoring of network conditions may include a computer system receiving network device updates from the network device itself. These network device updates may include status information with regard to the network device and network traffic processed by this network device. Status information may include the amount of traffic passing across a network whether the device or other devices within the network are operable or other suitable information.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of an embodiment of the present invention. It may be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present system and method may be practiced without these specific details.

In an example embodiment a system and method is illustrated that includes receiving a query requesting a task to be performed by a first network device the query generated by the first network device. Further the system and method may include transmitting a first command including the task to be performed by the first network device the task including an instruction for a second network device.

In some example embodiments a system and method is illustrated for providing software as a service in a remote network monitoring diagnosis and solution environment. This system and method may utilize four or more network devices each having associated functionality implemented in software hardware or firmware. A first network device in the form or a probe may be implemented. Operatively connected to this probe may be a second network device in the form of a router switch bridge or other suitable network device that may be monitored by the first network device. A third network device in the form of a NOC server may be operatively connected to the first network device. This NOC server may in turn be operatively connected to a fourth network device in the form of a network monitoring device such as a network operations center partner.

A network or customer network as used herein may be a computer network composed of the first second third or fourth devices as nodes and physical or logical links between these nodes. The phrase operatively connected may mean the existence of a logical or physical link between nodes. Example networks include the Internet a Wide Area Network WAN a Local Area Network LAN or some other suitable network and associated network topology. In some example embodiments a network device as used herein may be a device capable of layer and or analyses wherein these layers represent layers within the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP stack model or the Open Systems Interconnection Basic Reference OSI model.

In some example embodiments the second network device may be owned by one party managed by another and monitored by a third party. For example a Manager Service Provider MSP may monitor a network device for a network owner through the use of a NOC server. Other monitoring configurations are also envisioned.

In one example embodiment the probe may monitor a network and associated network devices. During the course of monitoring this network the probe may request to be assigned tasks by the NOC server and may transmit performance network metrics data back to the NOC server. A task may be a job to be performed by the probe. The NOC server in turn may transmit network health data to the monitoring device wherein this network health data is based in part upon the performance network metrics. The monitoring device may display this network health data to assist in the facilitation of action with regard to the network health data. For example the network health data may reflect that a device e.g. a router switch or bridge is down or otherwise inoperable. Using the monitoring device and an interface associated therewith e.g. a GUI or Application Programming Interface API a user may be able to fix the inoperable network device through issuing a fix command. A command may be an instruction set for a network device. This fix command may be received by the NOC server converted into a task command and transmitted to the probe by the NOC server. In one example embodiment a network health report may be displayed by the monitoring device. This network health report may reflect the status of network devices e.g. which network devices are operable or inoperable whether best practices as recommended by a network device manufacturer are being followed by the network and other relevant information.

In some example embodiments a system and method is shown wherein a customer network includes the probe being monitored by the NOC server. This probe may call home to the NOC server at regular programmable intervals. In some example cases a manual call home feature may be implemented. When the probe calls home it may identify itself and ask if the NOC server has any tasks that should be performed by the probe. Examples of tasks that the probe may perform include network discovery and monitoring of network devices or services. This monitoring may include the recording of data in the form of network traffic levels the health of the network and the performance of the network e.g. evaluating whether bottlenecks exist collectively referred to as performance network metric or performance metric . In one example embodiment when asked to perform a task through the issuance of a task command to the probe by the NOC server the probe may perform the task and then report the data and results back to the NOC server. A third device is the NOC server. In some example cases this NOC server is managed by a party that is distinct from the party that manages the monitoring device.

Some example embodiments may include a task command that instructs the probe to one or more of the following actions. The probe may be instructed to perform a security assessment of the network that it is servicing. The probe may be instructed to re configure one or more network devices that it services. Further the probe may be instructed to upgrade the operating systems of the various network devices that it services. Further the probe may be instructed to restart a previously inoperable network device that the probe services. Additionally the probe may be instructed to engage in various types of performance tuning with regard to these network devices. Performance tuning may include allocating or reallocating the memory e.g. allocating and reallocating memory thresholds limits or boundaries to meet new network traffic needs. Moreover the probe may receive certain best practices notifiers relating to how a particular network device that the probe services should be implemented. Using this best practices information the probe may re configure the network device that it services. The data that may serve as the basis for these instructions may be stored in a network device status database.

In some example embodiments a monitoring device may be implemented. This monitoring device may be controlled by an MSP. An MSP may be a person e.g. a naturally or legally created entity that manages a network for a customer. The management may be facilitated through the use of the monitoring device. This monitoring device may be a computer system with a browser e.g. a Hyper Text Markup Language HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML capable interpreter application that allows for the display of network health data.

In some example embodiments the NOC server and monitoring device may communicate over a network such as the Internet. Additionally the probe and NOC server may also communicate over a network such as the Internet. The communication between the probe NOC server and monitoring device may be facilitated through the use of protocol such as a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP or Secure Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTPS in conjunction with utilizing Secure Sockets Layer SSL protection collectively HTTPS .

Flowing through the network is network traffic . This network traffic may flow into the network and between the network device and network device . The metrics of this network traffic may be retrieved as a network performance metric wherein a metric may include traffic burst amounts traffic loads over time and other suitable information. The probe may be operatively connected to network device and network device . This connection may be in the form of for example a logical or physical connection.

In some example embodiments the probe may generate and transmit a probe query . This probe query may be transmitted across a network such as network to be received by a NOC server . This probe query may be transmitted using any one of a number of protocols including for example the HTTPS protocol. Upon receipt by the NOC server the probe query may be analyzed. Connected to the NOC server is the network device best practices database and a network device status database . The NOC server may transmit network health data to a network operations center partner .

This network operations center partner may utilize any one of a number of monitoring devices in combination with for example some type of GUI as implemented by a browser. This network health data may be transmitted using any one of a number of protocols including for example HTTPS. Further these monitoring devices may include for example a cell phone a computer system television or monitor a Personal Digital Assistant PDA or a smart phone not shown . The network operations center partner may utilize the monitoring devices in combination with the GUI may generate a fix command .

The fix command may be transmitted using any one of a number of protocols including HTTPS. The fix command may be transmitted across the network such as network to be received by the NOC server . This network operation center server may then issue and transmit a task command to be received by the probe . In some example embodiments the probe query may be a query including a task request that is generated by the probe wherein these tasks relate to tasks that may be performed by the probe . The probe query may be a request for instructions. This probe query may be generated on some predetermined periodic basis. This periodic basis may be determined by a system administrator during the configuration of the probe by the system administrator.

The network health data may include data relating to various network devices e.g. network device and network device wherein the data may relate to network traffic data configuration data for the various network devices monitored by the probe e.g. operatively connected to the probe security assessment data reconfiguration data operating system upgrade data prompts as to whether or not to restart a crashed network device as part of the network performance tuning data e.g. reallocating network device memory to meet new network traffic needs or data relating to instructions pertaining to best practices for a particular network device.

A fix command may include a command issued by the network operation center partner and more specifically one or more monitoring devices operated by this network operations center partner . The fix command may instruct the NOC server to instruct the probe as to certain actions to be undertaken by the probe . In some example embodiments the fix command may include instructions generated by a user utilizing the GUI that are implemented by the probe . These instruction and resulting actions may include requesting that the probe reconfigure a network device that the probe download an updated or new operating system e.g. an updated version of an Internetwork Operating System JOS for a network device or perform some other type of task with regard to one or more of the network devices that reside within the network that are monitored by the probe .

A task command may be a task encoded and formatted according to for example some type of protocol including for example a Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP a protocol based upon a Command Line Interface CLI a Netconf protocol or some other suitable protocol. In some example embodiments the task command may transmitted using the HTTPS protocols used to provide instructions to the probe .

In some example embodiments the person e.g. the MSP utilizing the network operations center partner may enter into a contractual relationship with both a person e.g. a device manufacturer utilizing the NOC server and the person e.g. a network owner using the network . Under the terms of this contractual relationship the person utilizing the network may pay a monetary amount to the person utilizing the network operations center partner for the services of having the network monitored by the person utilizing the network operations center partner . The person utilizing the network operations center partner may in turn pay a monetary amount to the person utilizing the NOC server for the service of being able to utilize the probe to monitor the network devices residing as part of the network .

These network device commands and may include commands that are formatted using some type of protocol including for example SNMP CLI Netconf or some other suitable protocol to as to instruct a network device and or network device as to some suitable action that these network devices should undertake. For example the network device command and network device command may include reconfiguration instructions or may include instructions to reallocate or to otherwise tune a particular network device. Tuning a network device may include re allocating or reconfiguring network device or buffer space. In some example embodiments other suitable commands may be provided via a network device command and network device command .

In some example embodiments the GUI may be used to display information relating to network health and or may be used to display network health reports. This information may include inventory and service status information relating to network devices network device availability information network security information Voice Over IP VoIP services information VoIP WAN information and reports generated by the NOC server .

Also shown is a network health data transmitter that may be used to transmit network health data . A backend manager is also illustrated that may be used to manage the network device best practices database and network device status database . A best practices and health engine is also shown that may be used to determine whether or not the best practices for a particular network device such as for example network device and or network device are being observed.

A probe identifier engine may also be implemented to uniquely identify a particular probe such as probe . In some example embodiments this probe identifier engine may utilize for example a Globally Unique Identifier GUID value that may globally and uniquely identifies the probe . A fix command receiver may also be implemented that receives a fix command from for example the network operations center partner .

A probe query receiver may also be implemented that may receive a probe query from probe . An encoding and decoding engine may also be implemented that may encode or decode messages between for example the probe and the NOC server . This encoding and decoding engine may also be used to encode and decode the transmission of messages between for example the monitoring devices and the NOC server . Encoding and decoding may utilize any one of a number of protocols including for example the HTTPS protocols.

Further a task request engine is shown that may generate a task request relating to tasks to be performed by the probe . Also shown is a monitoring engine that may monitor network activity such as traffic processed by the network device and or network device . Also shown is a network command engine that may generate network device commands such as network device command and .

Further a network command transmitter is shown that may transmit these network commands generated by the network command engine . Additionally a task command converter is shown that may convert tasks such as task command from one protocol to another protocol. This conversion may convert task encoded in a protocol utilized between the NOC server and probe and convert or transform this protocol to another protocol utilized between the probe and the network devices and network devices .

In some example embodiments the NOC server includes a best practices and health engine to determine if the best practice standard is being followed by the second network device based upon an intersection of the best practice standard and the data. This best practices and health engine may be similar to the best practices and health engine . A second transmitter is also shown that transmits network health data that includes the best practice standard wherein the data and the best practices standard do not intersect. In some example embodiments the network health data includes at least one of security assessment data relating to the second network device operating system data relating to the second network device configuration data relating to the second network device best practices data relating to the second network device network traffic data encountered by the second network device memory threshold data for the second network device service record data for the second network device performance tuning data relating to the second network device and operability data for the second network device. A third transmitter is illustrated that transmits a network health report that includes the network health data.

In some example embodiments an operation may be executed by the NOC server to identify data relating to the second network device. Operation when executed may identify a best practice standard relating to the second network device the best practice standard developed by a manufacturer of the second network device. Operation when executed may determine if the best practice standard is being followed by the second network device based upon an intersection of the best practice standard and the data. Operation when executed may transmit network health data that includes the best practice standard wherein the data and the best practices standard do not intersect. In some example embodiments the network health data includes at least one of security assessment data relating to the second network device operating system data relating to the second network device configuration data relating to the second network device best practices data relating to the second network device network traffic data encountered by the second network device memory threshold data for the second network device a service record data for the second network device performance tuning data relating to the second network device and operability data for the second network device. Operation when executed includes transmitting a network health report that includes the network health data.

With regard to those operations executed by the probe an operation may be executed that generates a probe query . An operation may be executed that transmits this probe query to be received by the NOC server . An operation may be executed to receive this probe query .

Further an operation may be executed that may retrieve network status device data using for example a backend manager. This backend manager may be the previously illustrated backend manager . An operation may be executed that may implement many of the functionalities described regarding the best practices and health engine. These best practices include for example best practices recommended by a particular manufacturer of the network device and or network device . These best practices may pertain to certain types of configuration settings software to be utilized by a network device or other information relating to best practices for a network device.

A decisional operation is also shown that determines whether or not a task exists for a particular probe such as probe . In cases where decisional operation evaluates to false operation is re executed. In cases where decisional operation evaluates to true an operation is executed. Operation when executed may transmit network health data and or a network health report to the one or more monitoring devices . For example network health data may be transmitted from the NOC server to be received by the one or more monitoring devices .

An operation may be executed that may receive network health data and or network health report. Additionally an operation may be executed that may decode and parse this network health data and or network health report. An operation may be executed that may display this network health data and or network health report to a user or other individual associated with the network operations center partner . This user may utilize the GUI that may reside as a part of the any one of a number of monitoring devices to review the network health data . An operation may be executed that may act as the previously illustrated fix command selector. This operation may detect a mouse click operation a mouse over operation a focus operation or some other suitable operation.

An operation may be executed that may encode and transmit the fix command . The fix command may be received through the execution of operation . An operation may be executed that may act as fix command task command converter. This fix command task command converter may translate or otherwise transform a fix command to a task command convert from one set of protocols utilized between the one or more monitoring devices and the NOC server and another set of protocols utilized by the NOC server and the probe .

An operation may be executed that may transmit the task command . This task command may be received through the execution of operation that may act to receive a task command. An operation may be executed that may act as a task command converter. This task command converter may implement many of the functionalities described as residing as a part of operation . Further this operation may only be executed where for example the operation is not implemented as a part of NOC server .

In certain cases the operation may be implemented even in cases where the operation is implemented. An encoding decoding engine may also be implemented to encode or decode the transmission of a network device command or between the probe and a network device or network device . An operation may also be executed to transmit a network device command such as network device command or network device command .

In cases where decisional operation evaluates to true an operation is executed. This operation may retrieve a probe identity from a probe identity data store . As previously illustrated this probe identifier may be a GUID value. A decisional operation may be executed that may determine whether to transmit network device data. In cases where a decisional operation evaluates to false an operation may be executed.

In cases where a decisional operation evaluates to true an operation may be executed. This operation may retrieve network device data from a network device database . Operation when executed may generate a probe query . This probe query may then be encoded and transmitted through the execution of operation see e.g. .

A decisional operation may be executed that may determine whether or not an intersection exists. Cases where a decisional operation evaluates to false a termination or exit condition is executed. Cases where a decisional operation evaluates to true an operation is executed. This operation may flag e.g. assign a Boolean value to certain best practices and services advisory data for a particular device. Based upon the flagging a task is generated to be performed by the probe based upon this best practices and or service advisory data. This task may include reconfiguring the network device and network device based upon the best practices and service advisory data.

An operation may be executed that may transmit a network device command to a network device where this network device may be for example the network devices or . A network device command may be transmitted through the execution of operation wherein this network device command may be received through the execution of operation . Decisional operation may be executed that may determine whether or not a network device is to be reconfigured. Cases where decisional operation evaluates to true an operation may be executed that may update a network device which is network device or with new or additional configuration settings or instructions.

Cases were decisional operation evaluates to false a decisional operation may be executed that determines whether or not a network device is to be provided with updates. These updates may include for example software updates operating system updates or other some other suitable type of update. Cases where a decisional operation evaluates to true an operation may be executed where this operation when executed may request an instruction update from for example the probe and or the NOC server .

In cases where decisional operation evaluates to false an operation may be executed that may transmit a device status and information to the probe . The types of device status and information sent to the probe may include a security assessment information operating system versioning information re start requirements for a network device configuration or network performance metrics e.g. information for a network device or information regarding whether best practices have been observed.

A table is also shown including best practices for a device. In some example embodiments the best practices may be for example data relating to certain types of configurations for particular types of network devices where these configurations are settings that are stored as an XML data type into the table . Further each entry into this table may be uniquely identified via an integer data type that may serve as a key value.

A table is also shown that includes network device health data. This network device health data may include XML or other suitably formatted data that may illustrate the health of a particular network. This health may be understood in terms of network traffic uptime for particular devices that are part of the network e.g. network device and or other suitable network device health data.

Also shown is a table that includes network device service history. This network device service history data may include data stored as an XML data type that includes information relating to the service history for particular network devices. These network devices may be part of the network . A table is also shown that includes network device updates. Stored in this table may be information in the form of XML formatted data stored according to an XML data type. That includes network device updates for a particular device such as network devices and that may be part of a network . Also shown is a table that includes one or more unique identifier values for the various tables through . These unique identifiers may serve to uniquely identify each entry e.g. tuple in the previously illustrated tables.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a CPU a Graphics Processing Unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or a Cathod Ray Tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alpha numeric input device e.g. a keyboard a User Interface UI cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device e.g. a transmitter .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions illustrated herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device using any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP or HTTPS .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium or tangible medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that stores the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present method and apparatus or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Although numerous characteristics and advantages of various embodiments as illustrated herein have been set forth in the foregoing description together with details of the structure and function of various embodiments many other embodiments and changes to details may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the system and method should be therefore determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that may allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it may not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Description of Example Embodiments it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

