---

title: Belt member, transfer unit incorporating same, image forming apparatus incorporating same, and method of evaluating same
abstract: A multi-layer endless belt member with a high-resistance surface layer for use in an image forming apparatus. A volume resistivity thereof ranges from approximately 8.0 to approximately 11.0 in log [Ω·cm]. An amount of resistivity change of a first surface thereof is greater than an amount of resistivity change of a second surface thereof by 0.05 or greater in log [Ω/square], where the amount of resistivity change of the first surface indicates a difference between surface resistivity values measured after a given voltage is applied for 1 second and for 100 seconds on the first surface thereof and the amount of resistivity change of the second surface indicates a difference between surface resistivity values measured after a given voltage is applied for 1 second and for 100 seconds on the second surface thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08014708&OS=08014708&RS=08014708
owner: Ricoh Company, Limited
number: 08014708
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20081205
---
The present invention claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 from Japanese Patent Application No. 2007 316230 filed on Dec. 6 2007 in the Japan Patent Office the contents and disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention generally relate to a belt member a transfer unit including the belt member an image forming apparatus including the belt member and a method of evaluating the belt member.

Full color image forming apparatuses for electrophotographic printing generally perform either a direct transfer operation or an indirect transfer operation. In the indirect transfer operation a toner image formed on an image carrier that contacts a belt is transferred onto an outer circumferential surface of the belt in an electric field supplied by a transfer bias unit in an operation that is referred to as primary transfer. Then the toner image retained by the belt is transferred onto a transfer member or a recording medium conveyed along the outer circumferential surface of the belt in an operation referred to as secondary transfer. Through the primary and secondary transfers ultimately a full color toner image is formed on a recording medium.

For an image forming apparatus to perform the above described primary and secondary transfers a belt or an intermediate transfer belt having medium resistance in volume resistivity is commonly employed. Such a medium resistance intermediate transfer belt is cost effective since it is generally used without a belt charge eliminator for eliminating residual charge remaining on the intermediate transfer belt.

When such an intermediate transfer belt having medium resistance is used for image forming the transfer bias applied for primary transfer charges an outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt to a given electric potential. Soon the charge forming the electric potential is gradually bled from the intermediate transfer belt via supporting rollers that serve as supporting means contacting an inner circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt and thus the electric potential of the intermediate transfer belt decreases to close to 0V. Thus the intermediate transfer belt having medium resistance does not hold residual charge and therefore irregularities such as afterimage caused by residual charge can be prevented.

By contrast an intermediate transfer belt having high resistance can hold an electric potential that is created during one primary transfer until a subsequent primary transfer. In this case it is difficult to form a desired electric field in the subsequent primary transfer due to the presence of residual charge on the intermediate transfer belt. Accordingly the electric field in the subsequent primary transfer may be different from that in the previous primary transfer and therefore an intermediate transfer member having high resistance may need to be used with a belt charge eliminator addition of which can cause an increase in the cost of an image forming apparatus.

As the electric potential on the medium resistance intermediate transfer belt decreases close to 0V an electric potential at a portion of the intermediate transfer belt that corresponds to a background portion of an image where no toner image is formed and an electric potential at a portion of the intermediate transfer belt where a toner image is formed may differ significantly. This is because when a color toner image is formed by sequentially superimposing single color toner images on top of each other the electric potential of toner on a surface of the color toner image may be high and as a result the charged toner image more precisely the charged toner particles may be attracted to the outer circumference of the intermediate transfer belt due to localized differences in potential. As a result some toner particles on the color toner image may scatter to the outer circumference of the intermediate transfer belt which can adversely affect image quality.

The above described toner scattering is particularly noticeable in full color image forming and is regarded as one of the causes of image deterioration or irregularity such as image background contamination and ink bleed on text.

Further the medium resistance intermediate transfer belt has low electrical withstand voltage. Therefore when a toner image is transferred at a secondary transfer nip from the intermediate transfer belt to a recording medium spot like discharges may occur in the secondary transfer nip that generate hollow defects or white spots on the toner image transferred onto the recording medium. Particularly with low ambient humidity high resistance for duplex copy and high voltage for the secondary transfer hollow defects or white spots can appear on the toner image.

For example one conventional image forming apparatus includes a multi layer intermediate transfer belt composed of a high resistance surface layer that forms an outer circumferential surface for carrying a toner image thereon and a medium resistance base layer that forms an inner circumferential surface of the multi layer intermediate transfer belt to which a transfer bias is applied. Such a high resistance surface layer can provide high charge retention which can reduce a potential difference between a surface potential of the multi layer intermediate transfer belt and a charged potential of toner attracted to the outer circumference of the intermediate transfer belt. Thus the above described toner scattering can be reduced thereby preventing a decrease in image quality in development.

Further the high resistance surface layer can increase the electrical withstand voltage of the multi layer intermediate transfer belt and as a result the spot like discharge in the secondary transfer nip can be prevented to avoid white defects in images.

However a drawback of the conventional composite belt having a high resistance surface layer and a medium resistance base layer is that while good charge retention to prevent toner scattering can be obtained the electrical withstand voltage is not sufficient to prevent occurrence of the spot like discharge to produce an image with white spots.

Generally a composite belt having a high resistance surface layer on top of a medium resistance base layer is manufactured to have a given tolerance. The upper and lower limits of the tolerance are determined not only by the belt s quality but also by its manufacturability such as mass productivity. Therefore even within the tolerance the composite belt may have deviations in quality. Therefore a final determination of such a composite belt is generally made according to a test of characteristics of the composite belt.

However when testing to evaluate the characteristics of the surface layer of the composite belt the evaluation is generally made on the basis of the combined characteristics of the base layer and the surface layer. Therefore it is probable that the evaluation cannot accurately evaluate the characteristics of only the surface layer of the composite belt.

For example shows changes in surface resistivity of two test composite belts. A surface resistance of a belt is generally determined according to a resistance measured over an arbitrary period of time e.g. 10 seconds. However as shown in while the surface resistivities of Belt A and Belt B are substantially equal to each other at the end of such measurement time of 10 seconds thereafter Belt A maintains a substantially constant surface resistivity whereas the surface resistivity of Belt B increases with time. Consequently the measurements obtained at the 10 second point do not provide an accurate evaluation of the characteristics of the surface layer of the conventional composite belt.

Such inaccurate evaluation of the characteristics of the surface layer of a conventional composite belt produces variations in the quality of the composite belt. Therefore even though good charge retention of the composite belt having a high resistance surface layer mounted on a medium resistance base layer is obtained to prevent an occurrence of toner scattering in transfer the electrical withstand voltage remains insufficient to prevent the occurrence of the spot like discharges and therefore images with white spots are generated.

Exemplary aspects of the present invention have been made in view of the above described circumstances.

Exemplary aspects of the present invention provide a multi layer endless belt member that can effectively prevent an occurrence of irregularity such as toner scattering and white spots on an image.

Other exemplary aspects of the present invention provide a transfer unit that can incorporate the above described multi layer endless belt member.

Other exemplary aspects of the present invention provide an image forming apparatus that can incorporate the above described multi layer endless belt member

Other exemplary aspects of the present invention provide a method of evaluating the above described multi layer endless belt member.

In one exemplary embodiment a multi layer endless belt member which is for use in an image forming apparatus and includes a volume resistivity and a surface resistivity includes a high resistance surface layer for carrying a toner image thereon. The volume resistivity of the multi layer endless belt ranges from approximately 8.0 to approximately 11.0 in a common logarithm value log cm . The multi layer endless belt member has a resistivity on a first surface serving as an outer surface of the multi layer endless belt member and a resistivity on a second surface serving as an inner surface of the multi layer endless belt member. An amount of resistivity change of the first surface of the multi layer endless belt member is greater than an amount of resistivity change of the second surface of the multi layer endless belt member where the amount of resistivity change of the first surface indicates a difference between a surface resistivity value measured after a given voltage is applied for 1 second and a surface resistivity value measured after a given voltage is applied for 100 seconds on the first surface of the multi layer endless belt member and the amount of resistivity change of the second surface indicates a difference between a surface resistivity value measured after a given voltage is applied for 1 second and a surface resistivity value measured after a given voltage is applied for 100 seconds on the second surface of the multi layer endless belt member.

The difference between the amount of resistivity change of the first surface and the amount of resistivity change of the second surface may be 0.05 or more in a common logarithm value log square .

The difference between the amount of resistivity change of the first surface and the amount of resistivity change of the second surface may be 1.0 or less in the common logarithm value log square .

When the multi layer endless belt is used as an intermediate transfer belt in the image forming apparatus to form an image a difference between the amount of resistivity change of the first surface and the amount of resistivity change of the second surface may be within a range which the image is produced without white banding.

A volume dependency of volume resistivity measured at 10V and a volume dependency of volume resistivity measured at 100V may be 1.5 or greater in a common logarithm value log cm .

Further in one exemplary embodiment a transfer unit includes the above described multi layer endless belt configured to serve as an intermediate transfer member to temporarily transfer a toner image formed on an image carrier thereto.

Further in one exemplary embodiment an image forming apparatus includes an image carrier configured to carry a latent image on a surface thereof a developing unit configured to develop the latent image formed on the surface of the image carrier into a toner image and the above described transfer unit having the above described multi layer endless belt member therein.

The transfer unit may include an external roller and an internal roller. The external roller may have a single layer structure and be configured to contact a recording medium against the first surface of the multi layer endless belt member. The internal roller may face the external roller via the intermediate transfer belt.

The resistance of the internal roller may be greater than the resistance of the external roller by 1.0 or greater in units of a common logarithm value log .

Further in one exemplary embodiment a method of evaluating a multi layer endless belt member with a high resistance surface layer for use in an image forming apparatus the multi layer endless belt member includes obtaining an amount of resistivity change of a first surface serving as an outer surface of the multi layer endless belt member indicating a difference between a surface resistivity value measured after a given voltage is applied for 1 second and a surface resistivity value measured after a given voltage is applied for 100 seconds on the first surface obtaining an amount of resistivity change of a second surface serving as an inner surface of the multi layer endless belt member indicating a difference between a surface resistivity value measured after a given voltage is applied for 1 second and a surface resistivity value measured after a given voltage is applied for 100 seconds on the second surface calculating a difference between the amount of resistivity change of the first surface and the amount of resistivity change of the second surface obtaining a volume resistivity of the multi layer endless belt member and by using the difference between the amounts of resistivity change of the first and second surfaces and the volume resistivity of the multi layer endless belt member determining whether the volume resistivity thereof ranges from 8.0 to 11.0 and whether the amount of resistivity change of the first surface thereof is greater than the amount of resistivity change of the second surface thereof by 0.05 or more in a common logarithm value log square .

In describing preferred embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of the present invention is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views preferred embodiments of the present invention are described.

The image forming apparatus of corresponds to a printer copier facsimile machine etc. and employs a tandem type indirect transfer system. In other words the image forming apparatus includes multiple image forming units Y M C and K that are disposed along an intermediate transfer belt that serves as an intermediate transfer member. The image forming apparatus includes a transfer unit at a center part thereof. The transfer unit includes the intermediate transfer belt in a form of an endless belt member. The intermediate transfer belt is wound around multiple supporting rollers which are a first supporting roller a second supporting roller and a third supporting roller . The intermediate transfer belt is rotationally conveyable in a clockwise direction in .

An intermediate transfer belt cleaning unit is disposed on the left side of the first supporting roller of the multiple supporting rollers in . The intermediate transfer belt cleaning unit removes residual toner remaining on an outer surface or outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt after image transfer.

The four image forming units Y M C and K for colors of yellow Y magenta M cyan C and black K respectively are located above the intermediate transfer belt particularly above a part extended between the first supporting roller and the second supporting roller and are arranged side by side along a conveyance direction of the intermediate transfer belt . The image forming units Y M C and K constitute a tandem type image forming mechanism. The image forming units Y M C and K of the tandem type image forming mechanism have substantially the same configuration as shown in for example.

The charging unit K uniformly charges the surface of the photoconductor K. The charging unit K of employs a charging brush to which direct current voltage is applied. However the charging unit K is not limited to a charging brush but can be a charging roller and electrifying charger or the like.

The optical writing unit K is an exposing unit of a LED writing system including a light emitting diode LED array and a lens array arranged in an axial direction or a main scanning direction of the photoconductor K in . The optical writing unit K emits the LED according to an image signal to form an electrostatic latent image on the surface of the photoconductor K. Other than this optical writing unit K it is also possible to use an optical writing unit of a laser scanning system including a laser beam source a light deflector such as a rotary polygon mirror and an image scanning optical system.

The developing unit K includes a developing roller that rotates while carrying a developer and agitating conveying member that agitates the developer and conveys the developer to the developing roller. The developing unit K develops an electrostatic latent image formed on the surface of the photoconductor K with toner contained in the developer to a visible toner image. As the developer either one component developer consisting of only toner or two component developer consisting of toner and magnetic carriers is used. Note that since the image forming unit K shown in is an example of an image forming unit for black K black toner is used as the toner. That is in the image forming units Y M and C of other colors shown in toners of yellow Y magenta M and cyan C are used respectively.

A toner image that is formed on the surface of the photoconductor K through operations performed by the charging unit K the optical writing unit K and the developing unit K is transferred onto the outer surface of the intermediate transfer belt in a primary transfer part or an area or part for primary transfer. A transfer brush K that serves as a primary transfer member is disposed at a position in the primary transfer part opposed to the photoconductor K across the intermediate transfer belt . A transfer bias is applied to the transfer brush K by a DC power supply. Further a photoconductor cleaning unit K which removes residual toner remaining on the surface of the photoconductor K after image transfer is provided on a downstream side of the primary transfer part in a direction of rotation of the photoconductor K.

The image forming unit K for black K has been described above as an example. The other image forming units Y M and C for yellow Y magenta M and cyan C are configured in the same manner. In the same image forming components are denoted by the same reference numerals. Suffixes Y M C and K are attached to the respective members to distinguish the colors.

In the tandem type image forming units described above in forming a color image the image forming units Y M C and K for yellow Y magenta M cyan C and black K form respective single toner images of yellow Y magenta M cyan C and black K on the photoconductors Y M C and K respectively. The image forming units Y M C and K transfer the single toner images onto the intermediate transfer belt to overlay the single toner images one on top of another to form a composite color image. In forming a black and white image only the image forming unit K for black K forms a monochrome image and transfers the monochrome image onto the intermediate transfer belt .

By contrast a secondary transfer part or an area or part for secondary transfer is provided on a side opposed to the tandem type image forming apparatus across the intermediate transfer belt . The secondary transfer part includes a secondary transfer roller that serves as an external roller a cleaning blade and a charge eliminating needle . The secondary transfer roller is disposed to contact a third supporting roller which serves as an internal roller via the intermediate transfer belt with a certain pressure. The secondary transfer roller transfers a toner image on the intermediate transfer belt onto a recording medium such as a paper sheet.

A sheet feeding part that includes a sheet feed cassette and a sheet feed roller a sheet feed path having a sheet feed roller and a pair of registration rollers are provided on an upstream side of the secondary transfer part in a direction of conveyance of the recording medium.

Further a conveyance unit a fixing unit and a sheet discharging roller are provided on a downstream side of the secondary transfer part. The conveyance unit conveys a recording medium having an image transferred thereon. The fixing unit fixes the transferred image on the recording medium. The sheet discharging roller discharges the recording medium after fixing to a sheet discharging unit.

Next a detailed description is given of image forming performed by the image forming apparatus having the above described configuration.

When a start switch of an operation unit not shown is pressed a drive motor not shown rotates one of the first supporting roller the second supporting roller and the third supporting roller . At the same time the other two supporting rollers are rotated with the one supporting roller whereby the intermediate transfer belt is rotated. At the same time the photoconductors Y M C and K serving as image carriers are rotated in the image forming units Y M C and K of the respective colors. Single color images of yellow magenta cyan and black are formed on the photoconductors Y M C and K respectively. According to the conveyance of the intermediate transfer belt these single color images are sequentially transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt to be superimposed one on top of another in the primary transfer part. As a result a composite full color image is formed on the intermediate transfer belt .

Further when the start switch is pressed the sheet feed roller is rotated and a sheet like recording medium such as paper is fed out from the sheet feed cassette and guided to the sheet feed path . The recording medium is further conveyed toward the pair of registration rollers and stopped when it contacts the pair of registration rollers .

Thereafter the pair of registration rollers rotates in synchronization with a movement of the composite full color image held by the intermediate transfer belt . The recording medium is conveyed to a position between the intermediate transfer belt and the secondary transfer roller or an external roller of the secondary transfer part. Then the full color image is transferred onto the recording medium according to transfer by the secondary transfer roller .

The secondary transfer roller is generally either a single layer elastic foam member or a multi layer elastic member.

The single layer elastic foam member performs a so called bias cleaning. That is the single layer elastic foam does not include a cleaning unit and returns toner adhering to the secondary transfer roller to the intermediate transfer belt by applying a non image forming bias. The bias cleaning is commonly employed for an apparatus for image forming because the cost of a roller itself is less expensive and no separate cleaning mechanism is required. However for an image forming apparatus in which a sensor reads image control patterns formed on the intermediate transfer belt so as to perform image control according to results of detection from the sensor the image control patterns requires significant limitations in pattern size pattern formation timing cleaning period of time cleaning operation timing etc. These limitations have affected on specifications of the above described image forming apparatus.

When the image forming apparatus includes a cleaning unit having the cleaning blade as shown in and the multi layer secondary transfer roller mounted on the image forming apparatus the multi layer secondary transfer roller or the secondary transfer roller having a multi layer structure can constantly remove toner adhering thereto. Therefore a back side of a recording medium may not be contaminated and therefore there is no limitation for forming image control patterns on the intermediate transfer belt . Since a cleaning time for cleaning the secondary transfer roller is not necessary periods of time for a backward rotation and forward rotation for example may not be necessary. Since the cost of the roller is expensive and a different cleaning mechanism is required the multi layer secondary transfer roller is commonly employed to a high speed model.

The multi layer secondary transfer roller includes a cored bar having a cylinder shaped metal an elastic layer formed around an outer circumferential surface of the cored bar and a resin surface layer formed on an outer circumferential surface of the elastic layer. Specific example of typical metal that forms the cored bar are but not limited to metallic materials such as stainless steel and aluminum. The elastic layer formed on the cored bar generally includes a rubber material to form a rubber layer so as to obtain a secondary transfer nip. It is desirable that the rubber layer has JIS A hardness of 70 degree or smaller.

Since a blade cleaning is employed for cleaning the multi layered secondary transfer roller if the elastic layer is excessively soft a leading edge of the cleaning blade may sink in the elastic layer which can cause curling of the cleaning blade to cause a contact state thereof to be unstable and a suitable cleaning angle cannot be obtained. Therefore it is desirable that the elastic layer has JIS A hardness of 40 degree or greater. Further as a conductive rubber material the elastic layer includes an epichlorohydrin rubber and has JIS A hardness of 50 degree or greater.

The elastic layer can be made of other materials such as EPDM dispersed with carbon powder Si rubber nitrile butadiene rubber NBR having an ion conductive function and urethane rubber.

The surface layer that is necessary to perform the blade cleaning is prepared by adding a fluorine containing resin for providing a lubricating effect and a resistance controlling member for adjusting a resistance to a polyurethane resin for example and a layer thickness thereof is formed in a range of from 5 m to 30 m.

Further if the image forming apparatus includes a configuration in which a cleaning blade is provided to a surface of the multi layer secondary transfer roller to remove toner or if a transfer sheet recording medium having a large amount of paper dust or talc is used the paper dust and or talc may be stuck between the cleaning blade and the secondary transfer roller . This trapping of the paper dust and or talc therebetween can lead to poor cleaning performance or filming to the surface of the secondary transfer roller which can result in background contamination. Therefore it is likely to provide a toner remover such as a fur brush before the cleaning blade as shown in .

The method for preparing the intermediate transfer belt is not particularly limited and any known methods such as dip coating methods centrifugal molding methods extrusion molding methods inflation methods coating methods and spraying methods can be used.

The surface layer which is a thin layer of the composite belt can be prepared by any suitable known methods. Specific examples of typical methods are but not limited to spray coating methods dip coating methods and flow coating methods. When using a centrifugal molding method for example after molding and drying the upper layer the base layer is formed dried and cured.

Suitable materials for use in preparing a base layer of the intermediate transfer belt include polyimide resins polyamide imide resins polycarbonate resins polyphenylene sulfide resins polyurethane resins polybutylene terephthalate resins polyvinylidene fluoride resins polysulfone resins polyether sulfone resins polymethyl pentene resins and combinations thereof. In view of the strength polyimide resins and polyamide imide resins are preferably used. It is preferable to add an electro conductive carbon black to the intermediate transfer belt to control the resistivity thereof.

Next an example of the centrifugal molding method for preparing the intermediate transfer belt using a polyimide resin will be explained.

Polyimide resins are typically prepared by subjecting an aromatic polycarboxylic anhydride or a derivative thereof and an aromatic diamine to a condensation reaction. Because of having a rigid main chain such polyimide resins are insoluble in solvents and are not melted even when heated. Therefore at first a polyamic acid i.e. a polyamide acid or an aromatic polyimide precursor which can be dissolved in an organic solvent is prepared by reacting an anhydride with an aromatic diamine. After the polyamic acid or the like is molded by any known methods the molded polyamic acid is heated or subjected to a chemical treatment to perform dehydration and ring formation i.e. imidization . Thus a molded polyimide resin is prepared.

Specific examples of the aromatic polycarboxylic anhydrides include ethylenetetracarboxylic dianhydride cyclopentanetetracarboxylic dianhydride pyromellitic anhydride 3 3 1 4 4 benzophenonetetracarboxylic dianhydride 3 3 4 4 biphenyltetracarboxylic dianhydride etc. but are not limited thereto. These compounds can be used alone or in combination.

Specific examples of the aromatic diamines include m phenylenediamine o phenylenediamine p phenylenediamine m aminobenzylamine p aminobenzylamine 4 4 diaminodiphenyl ether 3 3 diaminodiphenyl ether 3 4 diaminodiphenyl ether etc. but are not limited thereto. These compounds can be used alone or in combination.

By polymerizing an aromatic polycarboxylic anhydride with a diamine which are mixed in a molar ratio of about 1 1 in a polar organic solvent a polyimide precursor i.e. a polyamic acid can be prepared. Suitable solvents for use as the polar organic solvent includes any known polar organic solvents which can dissolved a polyamic acid and N N dimethylformamide and N methyl 2 pyrrolidone are preferably used.

Although it is easy to synthesize a polyamic acid various polyimide varnishes in which a polyamic acid is dissolved in an organic solvent are marketed. Specific examples of such varnishes include TORAYNEECE from Toray Industries Inc. U VARNISH from Ube industries Ltd. RIKACOAT from New Japan Chemical Co. Ltd. OPTOMER from Japan Synthetic Rubber Co. Ltd. SE812 from Nissan Chemical Industries Ltd. CRC8000 from Sumitomo Bakelite Co. Ltd. etc.

Specific examples of the resistivity controlling agents for use in the polyimide resins include powders of electroconductive resistivity controlling agents such as carbon black graphite metals e.g. copper tin aluminum and indium metal oxides e.g. tin oxide zinc oxide titanium oxide indium oxide antimony oxide bismuth oxide tin oxide doped with antimony and indium oxide doped with tin etc.

In addition ion conducting resistivity controlling agents can also be used. Specific examples thereof include tetraalkyl ammonium salts trialkylbenzyl ammonium salts alkylsulfonic acid salts alkylbenzenesulfonic acid salts alkylsulfates esters of glycerin and a fatty acid esters of sorbitan and a fatty acid polyoxyethylenealkylamine esters of polyoxyethylenealiphatic alcohols alkylbetaine lithium perchlorate etc. but are not limited thereto.

The thus prepared polyamic acid is heated at a temperature of from 200 degrees Celsius to 350 degrees Celsius to be converted to a polyimide resin.

When continuous melt extrusion molding methods are used for preparing seamless belts thermoplastic resins are preferably used. Specific examples of such thermoplastic resins include polyethylene polypropylene polystyrene polybutylene terephthalate PBT polyethylene terephthalate PET polycarbonate PC ethylene tetrafluoroethylene copolymers ETFE polyvinylidene fluoride PVdF etc.

Melt molding methods are broadly classified into continuous melt extrusion molding methods injection molding methods blow molding methods inflation molding methods etc. Among these methods continuous melt extrusion molding methods are preferably used for preparing a seamless belt.

Carbon black is typically used as an electroconductive agent for the intermediate transfer belt . The dispersion state of a carbon black in a belt formed by a melt extrusion method is typically inferior to that in a belt formed by a centrifugal method using a dispersion in which a carbon black is dispersed in a resin solution. Therefore the variation of resistivity of a belt formed by a melt extrusion method is typically larger than that of a belt formed by a centrifugal method.

A material suitable for the surface layer of the intermediate transfer belt is not limited to a specific material but is demanded to be a material to reduce an adhesion force of toner to the outer circumference of the intermediate transfer belt and to increase secondary transferability. Suitable examples of materials of the surface layer of the intermediate transfer belt are but not limited to resin materials such as polyurethane polyester polyamide etc. A coat layer including these resin materials can be obtained as a resin coat film by a curing agent such as isocyanato melamine silane coupling agent and carbodiimide. Further by filling a mold releasing filler such as polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE silica molybdenum disulfide and carbon black the coat layer can increase mold releasing performance of the surface thereof to improve the cleaning performance and prevent accumulation of toner and discharge product material. Further the coat layer can include conductive fillers conductive agents such as conductive carbon black tin oxide zinc oxide to control the resistance. Further the coat layer can include surface active agents such as fluorine containing surface active agent silicone containing surface active agent nonion containing surface active agent to uniformly mixing and dispersing these fillers.

One or more polyurethane resin polyester resin epoxy resins etc. can be used. Further lubrication must be high by reducing the surface energy. Therefore one or more powders or particles of fluorine resin fluorine compound carbon fluoride titanium dioxide and silicon carbide can be dispersed in the layer or the same kinds of the above material whose particle diameter is different can be dispersed in the layer. In addition similar to fluorine containing rubber materials the surface energy can be reduced by forming a fluorine rich layer on the outer circumference of the intermediate transfer belt by applying heat treatment. Carbon black can be used for resistance controlling.

Referring to B and C cross sectional views of schematic configurations of composite belts having different resistances in a direction of thickness. Each composite belt corresponds to the intermediate transfer belt .

In B and C each circle represents a conductive agent carbon black to indicate that where the more the conductive agents are the smaller the resistance of the composite belt or the intermediate transfer belt is. That is the composite belts or the intermediate transfer belts of B and C have respective layers having resistance higher than respective base layers.

The conductive agents not illustrated are added to a surface layer over a base layer of the intermediate transfer belt having a lamination structure of .

A heavy line shown in the intermediate transfer belt having a two layer structure of indicates a boundary between an upper layer and a base layer having different resistances.

A surface side of the intermediate transfer belt having a single layer structure of includes a smaller number of conductive agents to form a high resistance layer portion of a base layer portion . Even though the layer of the intermediate transfer belt of is not separated it has different resistance in the layer. That is in the intermediate transfer belt of the resistance of one surface is greater than the resistance of the other surface. Therefore the intermediate transfer belt is regarded as a composite belt.

Polymerization of 3 3 4 4 biphenyl tetracarboxylic acid dianhydride as the aromatic polyhydric carboxylic anhydride p phenylenediamine as the aromatic diamine and N methyl 2 pyrrolidone as the organic polar solvent was performed to obtain a polyamic acid solution. Acetylene black was added to the polyamic acid solution to the amount of 17 to the solid content density thereof. The mixture is agitated with Aquamizer manufactured by HOSOKAWA MICRON CORPORATION. Thus polyamic acid having 18 of solid content as precursor of polyimide resin was prepared.

The polyamic acid obtained as above was molded into a ring or loop through a centrifugal molding method while a metal cylindrical mold having a diameter of 250 mm was rotated at a speed of 100 rpm and polyamic acid having a solid content of 19 was uniformly applied to an inner surface of the cylindrical mold by a dispenser. Next the cylindrical mold was rotated at a speed of 1000 rpm for 5 minutes to level the polyamic acid. Then the rotation speed was reduced to 300 rpm and the cylindrical mold was gradually heated to 130 degrees Celsius. The polyamic acid was dried for 40 minutes and was solidified. After the solidification the cylindrical mold was stopped to rotate and heated to 350 degrees Celsius to cause imide ring closing. Thus imidization was completed and polyimide coating was obtained.

Next the cylindrical mold was cooled to room temperature and the polyimide coating was removed therefrom. Both edges of the polyamic coating were cut off so that the polyamic coating had a width of 250 mm. From the above a seamless intermediate transfer belt having a layer thickness of 80 m was produced. The resistance of the intermediate transfer belt was adjusted by a conductive additive amount carbon black .

Next the seamless intermediate transfer belt that serves as a base layer having a layer thickness of 80 m covered the cylindrical mold having a diameter of 248 mm. Both edges in a longitudinal direction of the cylindrical mold are sealed up with tape.

Polyurethane pre polymer 100 parts by weight curing agent isocyanate 3 parts by weight PTFE fine powder 50 parts by weight dispersing agent 4 parts by weight and MEK 500 parts by weight were uniformly dispersed for a surface layer. The cylindrical mold with polyimide resin formed thereon was dipped pulled out at 30 mm sec and dried naturally. The above process was repeated to form a surface layer of urethane polymer having a thickness of 5 m where the PTFE was uniformly dispersed. After dried in room temperature the cylindrical mold was cross linked at 130 degrees C for 2 hours to obtain the intermediate transfer belt having a two layer structure with a resin layer having a thickness of 80 m and a surface layer having a thickness of 5 m.

A layer thickness of the surface layer was adjusted with the number of repeats and solid density. Further a resistance of the surface layer was changed by an amount of addition of conductive agents for example. Further the two layer belt was formed by the centrifugal molding method.

The inventor of the present invention performed the measurement method of surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt according to the first exemplary embodiment with a high resistance measuring instrument HIRESTA UP from MITSUBISHI CHEMICAL CORPORATION. The measurement conditions are as follows 

In the first exemplary embodiment volume resistivity and surface resistivity are described in common logarithm values.

In Example 1 an intermediate transfer belt having a single layer structure was used to examine attenuation of potential of the intermediate transfer belt . The single layer of a polyimide resin having a thickness of 80 m was formed by adjusting a conductive additive amount of carbon black by using the centrifugal molding method and changing the resistance of the intermediate transfer belt .

The potential attenuations shown in indicate attenuation characteristics obtained by using a measuring unit of attenuation of belt electric potential as shown in by applying a voltage of 300V for 10 seconds. The measurement of the potential attenuation was conducted according to the following instructions.

A belt potential attenuation measurement was performed such that as shown in a belt was placed on an opposing electrode formed of a metal plate REGI TABLE on which a conductive rubber with a thickness of 1 mm thick was mounted. Then a metal electrode with a diameter of 10 mm is placed over the belt and a load of 2 kg was applied thereto. And a high voltage power supply Model 610C manufactured by TREK applied a constant voltage 100V for 10 seconds between the opposing electrode REGI TABLE and the metal electrode and subsequently turned off a switch in while the voltage is applied. Thus the attenuation characteristics of the intermediate transfer belt was measured.

Further the metal electrode was connected to a metal plate for measurement of the potential so that a voltage according to the belt potential can be induced to the metal plate for measurement of the potential. The potential of the metal plate was then measured by a surface electrometer Model 344 manufactured by TREK JAPAN CO. LTD. so that the attenuation characteristics were obtained. A distance between the metal plate for potential measurement and a probe of the surface electrometer was set to approximately 1 mm.

A recorder Linearcoder WR3101 manufactured by GRAPHTEC CORPORATION was used to output a surface potential so that a speed was measured according to an attenuation curve. Further the output values of the surface potential can be input to a personal computer or PC to measure the attenuation characteristics which is more preferable. In an exemplary embodiment the output values of the surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt were input to the PC to measure the potential attenuation.

The attenuation of belt potential shown in the graph of indicates the attenuation time in a logarithmic display. A measurement value at the 0 second point cannot be set and therefore as a matter of convenience a measurement value at the 0.001 second point is set as an initial belt potential.

Further in the first exemplary embodiment intermediate transfer belts having a single layer structure with different volume resistivities were used to evaluate the potential attenuation. However substantially same attenuation characteristics can be obtained with a multi layer or composite belt.

Table 1 shows differences between amounts of resistivity changes of outer and inner surfaces of an intermediate transfer belt including a high resistant surface layer and a medium resistant base layer where resistance and thickness of the surface layer material were varied. The thickness of the surface layer was measured by photographing a cross sectional view thereof by an electronic microscope. Further as shown in Table 1 the intermediate transfer belt having a single layer structure includes a thickness of a polyimide resin 80 m a value of surface resistivity 11.0 and a value of volume resistivity 9.5.

Resistance of the surface layer material was controlled according to volume resistance. A metal planar plate having a thickness of 2 mm was coated by a surface layer material by blade coating method dried in room temperature and cross linked at 130 degrees Celsius for 2 hours to obtain an intermediate transfer belt having a thickness of from 5 m to 10 m. The thickness of the intermediate transfer belt was measured by using a micrometer. The volume resistance thereof was measured by using HIRESTAR UP manufactured by MITSUBISHI CHEMICAL CORPORATION under the conditions described below. Further a measurement voltage had a low withstand voltage due to thin layer and changed according to resistance.

Next a description is given of the differences between amounts of resistivity changes of outer and inner surfaces of the intermediate transfer belt .

The intermediate transfer belt having a single layer including polyimide resin was extremely stable in resistance and the amounts of resistivity changes of the outer and inner surfaces were substantially same.

By contrast the intermediate transfer belt having a multi layer or composite structure including a base layer and a surface layer had a correlation between the surface layer thickness and the differences between amounts of resistivity changes of the outer and inner surfaces. The inventor found that even when there were variations in the surface material resistance and the surface layer thickness the characteristics of the surface layer were measured accurately. Further while a volume resistance may vary according to the resistance of the surface layer material and the surface layer thickness it is difficult to accurately determine whether the variations depend on the resistance of material and the layer thickness of the surface layer or the base layer. Therefore appropriate surface layer characteristics cannot be obtained.

The differences between amounts of resistivity changes of the outer and inner surfaces of the intermediate transfer belt and evaluation results of images are shown in Table 2 and a graph in . Reference images for evaluation of white spots and horizontal white banding were specified in advance and the evaluation was conducted to rank the results based on the reference images. Rank represents a highest rank indicating good image performance and as the level of the rank descends the image quality degrades. Rank is set to be a threshold or border of acceptance.

Further the image evaluation was conducted with the image forming apparatus of where the transfer unit provided therein was attached to each of the intermediate transfer belts according to the examples and comparative examples shown in Table 2.

Horizontal white bandings were evaluated with black and white halftone images after copying 100 white paper sheets under an environmental condition at a temperature of 10 degrees Celsius and at a relative humidity of 15 RH and then leaving the image forming apparatus for 8 hours while the photoconductor and the intermediate transfer belt were held in contact with each other.

As can be seen from Table 2 and if the difference between the amounts of resistivity changes of the outer and inner surfaces s was smaller than 0.05 an unacceptable amount of white spots was generated zone A . If the difference between the amounts of resistivity changes of the outer and inner surfaces s was greater than 1.0 an unacceptable horizontal white bandings was generated zone B . Therefore the difference between the amounts of resistivity changes of the outer and inner surfaces s of the intermediate transfer belt is preferably set within a range of from 0.05 to 1.0. By so doing even when the resistances of the surface material and the surface layer thicknesses have variations occurrences of white spots and horizontal white bandings can be reduced. Further since the surface layer includes a high resistance material the charge retention can be higher thereby reducing the occurrence of toner scattering.

As described above when the difference between the amounts of resistivity changes of the outer and inner surfaces s is greater than 1.0 horizontal white bandings may occur from fatigue of the photoconductor by contacting with the intermediate transfer belt while residual charge remains on the entire belt surface.

Residual charge can cause further image irregularities such as afterimage. For example after a toner image is formed on the intermediate transfer belt a secondary transfer voltage is applied to uniformly charge the toner image including a different portion of the intermediate transfer belt that corresponds to a background portion of the toner image where no toner image is formed. Whereby an electric potential distribution of the surface of the intermediate transfer belt after secondary transfer may be uneven corresponding to the toner image. That is a portion where the toner image is formed has low potential and the background portion of the intermediate transfer belt where the toner image is not formed has high potential which can cause the electric potential on the toner image held on the intermediate transfer belt to be uneven. Such uneven electric potential can cause uneven electric field for transfer resulting in a production of afterimage.

Therefore by setting the difference between the amounts of resistivity changes of the outer and inner surfaces s to a value equal to or smaller than 1.0 an unacceptable amount of horizontal white bandings can be reduced and at the same time an occurrence of afterimage can be prevented.

Further according to the description above in the first exemplary embodiment the intermediate transfer belt having a multi layer structure including a high resistance surface layer may be evaluated to determine whether the volume resistivity ranges from 8.0 to 11.0 in a common logarithm value log cm and whether the difference between the amounts of resistivity changes of the outer and inner surfaces s range from 0.05 to 1.0. By so doing occurrences of toner scattering white spots and lateral or horizontal white bandings can be prevented thereby obtaining the intermediate transfer belt that can prevent occurrence of toner scattering white spots and horizontal white banding.

Since the secondary transfer is affected by significant resistance vibrations of transfer sheet or paper a constant current control is conducted to the electric field of transfer. That is when resistances of a paper a roller etc. increase an applied voltage is controlled to increase.

In the second exemplary embodiment when negatively charged toner on the intermediate transfer belt is transferred onto a transfer sheet an electric field for secondary transfer is generated in the secondary transfer area. The electric field of secondary transfer may be in a direction where a positive polarity is applied to a cored bar of an external roller or the secondary transfer roller and a negative polarity is applied to a cored bar of an internal roller or the third supporting roller . By electrically conducting the internal and external rollers an increase amount of resistance of the third supporting roller can become smaller than that of the secondary transfer roller . A combined resistance of the third supporting roller and the secondary transfer roller contributes significantly to a secondary transfer voltage. Therefore when an increase in resistance of the roller having a higher resistivity is reduced an increase in the secondary transfer voltage can also be reduced which can achieve a higher or greater effect to prevent occurrences of irregularities such as electrical discharges in the secondary transfer part.

Therefore it is important to increase the resistance of the third supporting roller to the cored bar of which a voltage having a negative polarity is applied and reduce the resistance of the secondary transfer roller to which a voltage having a positive polarity is applied. It is also important that even when the resistance of the secondary transfer roller is increased an affect to the combined resistance of the third supporting roller and the secondary transfer roller is controlled to be small. That is to reduce an affect of increase in resistance of the secondary transfer roller to the combined resistance of the third supporting roller and the secondary transfer roller it is necessary to design the resistance of the secondary transfer roller such that even when the resistance increases the secondary transfer roller the increased resistance can be smaller than the resistance of the third supporting roller . Therefore the secondary transfer roller is designed such that an amount of increase in resistance thereof is within the single digits and the resistance of the secondary transfer roller is designed to be lower than the resistance of the third supporting roller by one point or more. By so doing even when the resistance of the secondary transfer roller increases an effect of the increased resistance to the combined resistance of the third supporting roller and the secondary transfer roller can be reduced.

For example it is assumed that a resistance of the external roller i.e. the secondary transfer roller increases 5 times and a resistance of an internal roller i.e. the third supporting roller increases 2 times and combined resistance values with different resistances are obtained. Table 3 shows results of the above described tests. According to Table 3 it is clear that the smaller the resistance of the external roller is than the resistance of the internal roller the smaller the increase amount of the combined resistance of the external roller and the internal roller become.

The instrument includes an opposing metal roller a high voltage power source and an ammeter. The opposing metal roller is a stainless roller having a diameter of 30 mm which is fixed by a bearing. A sample roller for measuring the resistivity is pressed at a force of 50 gf cm against the opposing metal roller. A given voltage is applied by the high voltage power source 610D manufactured by TREK JAPAN CO. LTD. to a place between the opposing metal roller and a shaft of the sample roller to measure the current flowing the opposing metal roller and the sample roller using the ammeter 6514 manufactured by KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS INC. . The high voltage power source and the ammeter are not limited to the above models. Further it is more preferable to automatically input store and process the measured data via a personal computer. Therefore in this exemplary embodiment the measured data was automatically processed. The resistivity was measured under an environment condition at a temperature of 22 degrees Celsius and at a relative humidity of 55 RH.

The secondary transfer roller in Example 3 is a conductive roller including a foam ion with NBR rubber having an outer diameter of 16 mm a cored bar having a diameter of 8 mm and a hardness of 45 degrees in the asker C scale. The third supporting roller is a solid ion conductive roller including an epichlorohydrin rubber and an acrylonitrile butadiene rubber NBR having an outer diameter of 24 mm and a hardness of 52 degrees in the asker A scale.

The durability of a roller was evaluated with a testing unit for single unit durability evaluation which is a similar unit to the transfer unit . In the evaluation tests a test for evaluating an increase in resistance of a roller was conducted continuously for 10 straight days under conditions similar to those using the transfer unit substantially followed by a test for evaluating images in an image forming apparatus.

Further voltage dependency of volume resistivity which is described later represents a difference between a 100V measurement resistance and a 10V measurement resistance.

The procedure for measuring the resistivity of the external roller the secondary transfer roller and the internal roller the third supporting roller in Example 3 is repeated except that the resistance of the external roller is 5.5.

In Example 5 the intermediate transfer belt includes a two layer belt formed by polyimide resin. An upper layer of the intermediate transfer belt has a volume resistivity of 10.9 and a thickness of 40 m and a base layer thereof has a volume resistivity of 9.5 and a thickness of 40 m. The resistance of the external roller and the resistance of the internal roller are same as those in Example 4.

In Example 6 the intermediate transfer belt is formed by polyamide imide resin and a surface layer thereof has a thickness of 2.6 m. The procedure for manufacturing the intermediate transfer belt is same as the intermediate transfer belt formed by polyimide resin. The resistance of the external roller and the resistance of the internal roller are same as those in Example 4.

The procedure for measuring the resistivity of the external roller the secondary transfer roller and the internal roller the third supporting roller in Example 3 is repeated except that the resistance of the external roller is 7.2 and the resistance of the internal roller is 6.5.

The procedure for measuring the resistivity of the external roller the secondary transfer roller and the internal roller the third supporting roller in Example 3 is repeated except that the resistance of the internal roller is 6.5.

The intermediate transfer belt was molded through the inflation molding methods by using PVdF having ion conductive additive. Further the resistance of the external roller is 5.5 and the resistance of the internal roller is 7.2.

In Example 3 the difference between the amounts of resistivity changes of the outer and inner surfaces s of a ring shaped surface layer formed by the polyimide resin was 0.31 the voltage dependency was 1.7 the initial resistance of the internal roller was 7.2 and the initial resistance of the external roller was 6.2 which was one point smaller than that of the internal roller. As a result of the continuous durability evaluation tests for 10 straight days the resistance of the internal roller increased by 0.3 point to 7.5 and the resistance of the external roller increased by 0.7 point to 6.9. Further the ratio of increase in transfer voltage increased by 2.27 times which was about half the amount of increase as 4.44 times of Comparative Example 1 and 3.84 times of Comparative Example 2 and therefore the voltage that was around 2 kV at the initial stage was reduced to 5 kV or below. Accordingly the results of Example 3 were not affected by electrical discharge due to an increase in voltage and limitation of voltage due to an upper limit voltage an occurrence of poor transferability was avoided and the result of occurrence of white spots was ranked 4.75 which was good in image quality.

In Comparative Example 1 the resistance of the external roller was set higher than the resistance of the internal roller which increased the ratio of increase of transfer voltage by 4.44 times as shown in the evaluation results of durability of conductivity. Therefore the voltage that was 2 kV at the initial stage increased up to 9 kV which generated poor transferability caused by limitation of voltage due to the upper limit voltage and resulted in a production of coarse images.

In Comparative Example 2 the resistance of the external roller was set higher than the resistance of the internal roller which increased the ratio of increase of transfer voltage by 3.84 times as shown in the evaluation results of durability of conductivity. Therefore the voltage that was 2 kV at the initial stage increased up to 7 kV which generated poor transferability caused by limitation of voltage due to the upper limit voltage and resulted in a production of coarse images.

In Comparative Example 3 the voltage dependency was small and no white spots appeared. However the resistance dropped significantly under a high humid condition and therefore the electric field of transfer reduced sharply which produced coarse images.

As described above according to the above described exemplary embodiments it has been proved by the above described tests that the intermediate transfer belt that serves as a multi layer endless belt member having a high resistance surface layer to be used for an image forming apparatus can reduce an occurrence of toner scattering and an image having white spots when setting the above described conditions such that the volume resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt ranges from 8.0 to 11.0 in a common logarithm value log cm and that the amount of resistivity change of the outer surface of the intermediate transfer belt is greater than the amount of resistivity change of the inner surface of the intermediate transfer belt by 0.05 or more in a common logarithm value log square where the amount of resistivity change of the outer surface indicates a difference between a surface resistivity value measured after a given voltage is applied for 1 second and a surface resistivity value measured after a given voltage is applied for 100 seconds on the outer surface of the endless intermediate transfer belt and the amount of resistivity change of the inner surface indicates a difference between a surface resistivity value measured after a given voltage is applied for 1 second and a surface resistivity value measured after a given voltage is applied for 100 seconds on the inner surface of the endless intermediate transfer belt .

Further according to the above described exemplary embodiments it has been proved by the above described tests that when the difference between the amounts of resistivity change of the above described outer and inner surfaces is 1.0 or less in the common logarithm value log square an occurrence of the lateral or horizontal white banding can be prevented.

Further according to the above described exemplary embodiments when the respective volume dependencies of volume resistivity measured at 10V and 100V of the intermediate transfer belt is 1.5 or greater in the common logarithm value log cm high electrostatic stability can be obtained and occurrences of toner scattering around text and white spots with time and under a given environmental condition can be prevented.

Further according to the above described exemplary embodiments when the intermediate transfer belt includes a polyamide resin or a polyamide imide resin high electrostatic stability can be obtained with time and under a given environmental condition and enhance durability quality and occurrences of toner scattering around text and white spots can be prevented.

Further according to the above described exemplary embodiments the transfer unit includes the intermediate transfer belt that corresponds to the multi layer endless belt member to temporarily transfer a toner image formed on the photoconductor thereto. When a belt member according to the present invention employs the intermediate transfer belt white spots and horizontal white banding cannot appear on an image.

Further according to the above described exemplary embodiments the image forming apparatus includes the photoconductor that serves as an image carrier for carrying a latent image on the surface thereof the developing unit for developing the latent image into a toner image the transfer unit including the intermediate transfer belt for temporarily transferring the toner image on the photoconductor onto the intermediate transfer belt . When the transfer unit includes the intermediate transfer belt as the intermediate transfer member according to the above described exemplary embodiments of the present invention white spots and horizontal white banding cannot appear on an image.

Further according to the above described exemplary embodiments the transfer unit includes the secondary transfer roller that serves as an external roller to contact a recording medium or transfer member against the outer surface of the intermediate transfer belt and the third supporting roller that serves as an internal roller disposed opposite or facing the secondary transfer roller via the intermediate transfer belt . The secondary transfer roller has a single layer structure. Even when using the secondary transfer roller having such a single layer structure which is low cost and does not require a separate cleaning unit appropriate charge retention and electrostatic withstand voltage can reduce or prevent occurrences of toner scattering and white spots. This can provide the image forming apparatus that can prevent fatigue of the photoconductor caused due to excessive accumulation of charge at the interface of the base layer and the surface layer.

Further according to the above described exemplary embodiments the resistance of the third supporting roller is greater than the resistance of the secondary transfer roller . With the above described configuration even when the resistance of the secondary transfer roller increases the combined resistance of the third supporting roller and the secondary transfer roller may not increase significantly. Therefore the above described configuration can reduce occurrences of white spots and prevent failures such as abnormal electrical discharges due to an increase in applied voltage and a decrease in transferability due to limitation control.

Further according to the above described exemplary embodiments the resistance of the third supporting roller is greater than the resistance of the secondary transfer roller by 1.0 or greater in the common logarithm value log . Therefore occurrences of white spots can be reduced and an increase in resistance of the secondary transfer roller may less contribute to an increase in the combined resistance of the third supporting roller and the secondary transfer roller . Further the above described configuration can prevent failures such as abnormal electrical discharges due to an increase in applied voltage and a decrease in transferability due to limitation control.

Further according to the above described exemplary embodiments the above described method of evaluating a belt member is used to determine a specification of the intermediate transfer belt serving as an endless belt member having a multi layer structure with a high resistance surface layer. The method uses the difference between the amounts of resistivity change of the outer and inner surfaces and the volume resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt to evaluate the intermediate transfer belt where the amount of resistivity change of the outer surface indicates a difference between a surface resistivity value measured after a given voltage is applied for 1 second and a surface resistivity value measured after a given voltage is applied for 100 seconds on the outer surface of the endless intermediate transfer belt and the amount of resistivity change of the inner surface indicates a difference between a surface resistivity value measured after a given voltage is applied for 1 second and a surface resistivity value measured after a given voltage is applied for 100 seconds on the inner surface of the endless intermediate transfer belt . Specifically the method of evaluating the belt member obtains the amount of resistivity change of the outer surface of the intermediate transfer belt the amount of resistivity change of the inner surface thereof calculates the difference between the amounts of resistivity changes of the outer and inner surfaces thereof obtains the volume resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt and by using the difference between the amounts of resistivity change of the outer and inner surfaces and the volume resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt determines whether the volume resistivity thereof ranges from 8.0 to 11.0 and whether the amount of resistivity change of the outer surface thereof is greater than the amount of resistivity change of the inner surface thereof by 0.05 or more in a common logarithm value log square . With these values for evaluation it can determine whether an intermediate transfer belt prevents toner scattering and white spots.

The above described exemplary embodiments are illustrative and numerous additional modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. For example elements and or features of different illustrative and exemplary embodiments herein may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure. It is therefore to be understood that the disclosure of this patent specification may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein.

Obviously numerous modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein.

