---

title: Methods and systems for multiforce high throughput screening
abstract: Methods and systems for multiforce high throughput screening are disclosed. According to one aspect, the subject matter includes a high throughput screening system that includes a multiforce plate having a plurality of field forming poles where each field forming pole is positioned on the multiforce plate at a location corresponding to a well in a multiwell plate. The system also includes an exciter assembly with excitation poles positioned at locations corresponding to the field forming poles. The excitation poles are utilized for electrically or magnetically coupling to the field forming poles and for delivering at least one of an electric and magnetic field in the vicinity of the field forming poles. The coupled field forming poles apply force via the field(s) to probes located in the wells of the multiforce plate in order to move the probes and test mechanical properties of specimens in the wells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08490469&OS=08490469&RS=08490469
owner: The University of North Carolina
number: 08490469
owner_city: Chapel Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080222
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 902 664 filed Feb. 22 2007 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. 5 P41EB002025 and 1 R01 EB000761 01 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The subject matter described herein relates to the application of magnetic and or electrical forces to various specimens and or to mechanically unattached probes located in the specimens for high throughput screening of at least one of mechanical chemical or biological properties of the specimens.

Currently there is a significant need for force measurements in biological and biomedical sciences. Namely biological systems respond to forces and stresses such that the responses both physical and biochemical can be used to determine the health of a patient. For example blood clots serve to stem the flow of blood in a wound and the clotting success relies on the mechanical integrity of protein filaments called fibrin fibers. Similarly the tissues that line the blood vessels and the lung also respond to stress. These cells are under constant cyclic stress due to the pumping of blood and due to respiration respectively. In the case of the endothelial cells that line blood vessels the response of these cell linings determine the release of biochemical agents to retard inflammation. In the case of the epithelial cells that line the lung the stress response regulates the amount of mucus that coats the lung. With the vast set of biochemical pathways that need to be elucidated and complex mechanisms that need to be explored the biological sciences have developed high throughput screening where hundreds to millions of experiments can be performed in parallel. However at this time there is no equivalent high throughput assay that applies force and measures the biological response to the stress.

Other types of high throughput experiments that can be conducted include magnetic experiments where molecules are separated based on permeability electrochemical experiments where conductivity of an assay is measured by applying a potential difference and measuring the corresponding current electrophoresis where molecules in an assay are differentiated based on charge dielectrophoresis where molecules in an assay are differentiated based on polarizability frequency dependent electric or magnetic experiments where molecules are differentiated based on frequency response under an applied time varying electric or magnetic field and combinations of any of these types of experiments.

Accordingly there exists a need for methods and systems for multiforce high throughput screening methods.

Methods and systems for multiforce high throughput screening are disclosed. According to one aspect the subject matter disclosed herein includes a multiforce high throughput screening system that includes an exciter assembly having a plurality of excitation poles where each excitation pole is positioned on the exciter assembly at a location corresponding to a well in a multiwell plate. The system also includes a force delivery pole plate with field forming poles positioned at locations corresponding to the excitation poles. The field forming poles are utilized for electrically or magnetically coupling to the excitation poles and for forming at least one of an electric and magnetic field in the vicinity of the specimens. A multiforce plate comprises a conventional multiwell plate and the pole plate. The fields formed by the coupled field forming poles apply force s on probes located in the specimen wells of the multiforce plate in order to move the probes and test mechanical properties of specimens in the wells.

The subject matter disclosed herein is directed to a multiforce high throughput screening system which can be used to apply electric and or magnetic fields to mechanically unattached probes located in specimens in a multiwell plate or directly to the specimens themselves. Mechanically unattached probes disposed in the specimen wells may move under the applied electric or magnetic field. Imaging and tracking optics may track the movement of the probes under the applied fields. As a result of the applied fields and the tracked probe movements mechanical properties of each specimen such as viscosity can be tested. In applications where electric and or magnetic fields are applied directly to the specimens diamagnetic paramagnetic dielectrophoretic electrophoretic and electrochemical properties of the specimens can be tested. Because the subject matter described herein provides a convenient structure for simultaneously applying electric and or magnetic fields to plural specimens multiforce high throughput screening can be achieved.

As mentioned above one technique for applying force to a specimen via the system is through magnetic fields. A magnetic probe e.g. a mechanically unattached bead or rod may experience a force or torques from magnetic fields and field gradients. Notably the magnetic force can act on a probe that is placed in a specimen of interest. The specimen may be biological e.g. a molecule a cell a tissue culture etc. or of material science interest. The probe may be characterized as one of several magnetic properties paramagnetic ferromagnetic diamagnetic etc. and be of arbitrary shape bead rod etc. . The specimen may also be in suspension in a fluid or gel inside a cell on top of a cell or cell culture or anywhere in contact with a biological specimen such as a tissue specimen or culture. When the magnetic force is applied to the probe the probe moves in a way that is characteristic of the applied magnetic force and the forces that are imposed by the biological specimen.

There are several approaches to measuring the response of the above mentioned applied force. For example the motion of a probe that is influenced by magnetic field may be measured. The response of the probe can then be used as a measure of the specimen s mechanical properties such as inherent linear and non linear viscoelastic properties. This particular method of measurement may be useful in biomedical applications such as ascertaining fibrin fiber gel formation and dissolution as well as determining mucus rheological properties of a specimen. In cases where the probe is attached to a cell the mechanical properties of the cell may be quantified. Different cell types may exhibit different ranges of stiffness.

A second approach to measuring the response of the applied force may include measuring the motion of the specimen away from the magnetic probe. This measurement approach may be used to identify how stress is conveyed through a molecule cell or tissue. The measurement approach may also elucidate pathways in the biochemical response of a biological system.

Yet another approach to measuring the response of the applied force may include monitoring the specimen itself. Namely the specimen may respond to the applied force by releasing biochemicals restructuring itself regulating activity and the like. These responses can be measured using some other measurement technique such as using fluorescence microscopy to measure the various degrees of biochemical release.

In one embodiment multiforce generation subsystem comprises a magnetic drive block such as exciter assembly which is shown in . Referring to exciter assembly may include a plurality of excitation poles each of which may include a coil . Coils which generate the magnetic field may include standard wire wrapped bobbins or alternatively the coils may be patterned on a multilayer printed circuit board. The latter embodiment is especially well suited for tight spatial constraints that may be imposed by high numerical aperture microscopy or smaller well layouts. Excitation poles may be attached to a magnetic flux return plate . In one embodiment excitation poles and flux return plate may be made from a high permeability material such as soft iron. Subsystem may also include an appropriate cooling mechanism not shown to dissipate excess heat or to maintain system at a target temperature. In one embodiment subsystem is capable of producing forces of significant magnitude e.g. forces greater than 10 nanoNewtons in multiple directions over a three dimensional sphere and can be varied at frequencies up to more than three kilohertz.

Returning to system also includes a multiforce plate subsystem . Multiforce plate subsystem may comprise a microtiter well plate that includes a plurality of specimen wells. The well plate may also be coupled with a cover glass sheet that serves as the bottom of the well plate. Multiforce plate subsystem may also include a plurality of field forming poles that are used to form a magnetic or electric coupling with excitation poles of multiforce generation subsystem . This is better illustrated in where multiforce plate subsystem is represented as multiforce plate . In one embodiment not shown in the field forming poles may be integrated into a cover glass sheet.

Referring to multiforce plate includes a plurality of specimen wells that are adjacent to field forming poles i.e. field forming poles . Specimen wells may include specimen chambers of a microtiter well plate. In one embodiment field forming poles may be fabricated from thin sheets of magnetic material e.g. laser cutting from sheet magnetic material or by electrodeposition using a photolithography mask and are responsible for carrying the flux delivered by excitation poles to the specimen.

Notably field forming poles may be positioned in proximity to or may be located inside of wells . Each well may contain one or more probes . In one embodiment probes may include mechanically unattached beads or rods that may be magnetized. In a magnetic application probes can be formed of a paramagnetic or a diamagnetic material. In an electrical application probes can be charged or chargeable particles. As shown in probes may be suspended in the specimens contained in wells . In one embodiment probes may be floating in a specimen because the specimens have not yet been affected by an applied magnetic field. Notably shows that the force is not activated since excitation poles have not been brought into proximity or contact with field forming poles of multiforce plate and coils have not been energized .

In contrast the activation of force is shown in which depicts magnetized probes attracted to field forming poles . Notably illustrates exciter assembly being brought into magnetic contact with field forming poles which are integrated with specimen wells of multiforce plate . In order to generate the magnetic force excitation poles need to be coupled to field forming poles and coils need to be energized. More specifically magnetic flux is generated by the set of coils that is magnetically coupled to a flux return path to minimize the magnetic circuit reluctance. For example excitation poles carry the flux from coils to field forming poles and then back to magnetic flux return plate via flux return posts that are described below . In this way a magnetic circuit is created that affords relatively low circuit reluctance and generates significant magnetic fields and forces at field forming poles . In this configuration each field forming pole in the multiforce plate is driven by an excitation pole .

In an alternative embodiment magnetic flux return plate may be replaced by a local return path that serves each coil . This may include a cylindrical cap over each coil with flux routed from one end of coil through a field forming pole and back through the outer cylinder to the other end of the coil . This implementation may be useful for isolating each well from all of the other wells and by allowing maximum flexibility in the experimental methodology.

Although system was initially designed to be utilized with a standard 96 well plate geometry e.g. a conventional microtiter plate system may easily be adapted to accommodate a smaller or larger number of wells.

In one embodiment control and measurement subsystem may be designed to be computer controlled and is able to generate flux from each of coils . The control of the magnetic flux at each coil is achieved by coordinating the currents in the coils so that the coils generate flux either in a limited set of nearby specimen wells or generate fields and forces in every well on multiforce plate . Equations to determine which coils to activate for a given configuration of activated specimen wells may be solved by standard linear equations of circuit theory with known correspondences between magnetic circuit and electrical circuit quantities.

In one embodiment each field forming pole comprises an elongate member having a teardrop like shape with a single pole tip. Such an embodiment is illustrated in . Such an embodiment is useful for applying forces towards the field forming pole. In an alternate embodiment each field forming pole may have a plurality of pole tips for applying forces from a plurality of different points increasing the usable area of each specimen well. This embodiment is illustrated in .

Control and measurement subsystem may also include a mechanical properties module that is used to measure the mechanical properties of the specimen depending on the measured movement of the probe. An imaging and tracking optical system may also be employed to perform several kinds of measurements either simultaneously with the application of force or after the force sequence has been applied. For example optical system may include a single specimen imaging system with a robotic stage that can systematically position each well over a microscope objective. Alternatively optical system may include an array based system that is capable of imaging several wells simultaneously. The recorded images may be used to track the probe position to image strains in the specimen to detect biochemical activity in the specimen through fluorescence signals and the like. In one embodiment optical system may include the placement of a lens in an illumination aperture of exciter assembly . Notably the lens may be embodied as a cylindrical lens that is characterized by a certain gradient index of refraction. The index of refraction that is selected is one that enables the lens to focus a light beam on the specimen as it traverses the narrow length of the illumination aperture. For example an illumination source which is placed above the illumination aperture in exciter assembly may be used to project light into the gradient index of refraction lens. The focused light is then directed to the specimen in the specimen well and a collector and or microscope objective located on the underside of the specimen well .

In one embodiment the typical operation of system involves the multiforce plate being loaded with specimens processed and then engaged with exciter assembly . Together the combined system may be placed above an inverted microscope objective to measure probe motion e.g. bead motion during the application of force via a magnetic field. In cases where the force is to be applied without direct observation exciter assembly may be energized through some designed sequence in the absence of observation with the effects of the magnetic forces and fields measured at a later time.

In addition to applying a magnetic field to a plurality of specimen wells the present subject matter is also capable of selectively powering a single designated well in a multiforce plate according to one embodiment of the subject matter described herein. In flux return plate represents a sheet of high permeability magnetic material that serves as a path for the return of magnetic flux. The cylinders represent coils that are responsible for generating the flux to be delivered via excitation poles . Cover glass plate represents the bottom of a multiwell plate e.g. a microtiter plate which is depicted as a plurality of specimen wells . In one embodiment cover glass plate is integrated with thin foil field forming poles to form a pole plate. The magnetic drive block or exciter assembly has a single magnetic flux return plate that is coupled to excitation poles that may be positioned to contact this layer of field forming poles . In addition to excitation poles that generate flux via coils exciter assembly may include flux return posts which are not equipped with coils. Flux return posts are adapted to complete the magnetic circuit by providing a return path to flux return plate . By providing a return path for the flux for each separate well control over individual wells may be achieved. For example the fields and forces applied to a given specimen well are primarily generated by the current in the coil feeding that particular specimen well. This is shown in where excitation poles and flux return posts are brought into contact with field forming poles . Specifically because excitation pole is brought into contact with field forming pole and coil is activated only magnetic flux is generated. Flux is shown as a line that circles through the current coil to field forming pole across the gap in specimen well back up through flux return post and then through magnetic flux return plate to complete the magnetic circuit. Notably flux is not present in specimen wells and because coils and are not activated.

In addition to or in lieu of magnetic fields force may be applied by utilizing electric fields. These electric fields may be constant in time e.g. direct current DC fields or be applied at various frequencies. The electrical fields can apply forces to objects or molecules that are charged or polarizable. As such these fields may be applied with the same effects and applications as denoted above for magnetic fields. In one embodiment system can also apply electric potential fields forces and currents to specimens in the multiwell plate. To apply an electric field electrical contact is made between a given field forming pole and a corresponding excitation pole. In one embodiment this may be accomplished by making use of the in place magnetic system described above as shown in . The magnetic drive system or exciter assembly establishes contact through an excitation pole i.e. drive core to one of field forming poles . An electrical connection is made by this excitation pole to the magnetic field forming pole because the excitation pole is being used as an electrical conductor. In one embodiment field forming poles are electrically isolated from each other. For example this may be accomplished as shown in by placing a small electrically insulating gap in exciter assembly where each excitation pole connects. This small gap may have minimal effect on the magnetics while serving to electrically isolate field forming poles . In one embodiment a separate voltage supply or current supply may be connected to each excitation pole which changes the electric potential on each field forming pole thereby providing a varying electric field in the specimen region. This electric field can be applied independent of the magnetic field and both can exist simultaneously within the specimen region. shows a design where electric forces and measurements may be applied simultaneously with the application of magnetic forces. In this case the magnetic materials of the excitation poles that carry the magnetic flux can be electrically isolated from each other at the flux return plate due to insulated gaps without significantly altering the magnetic flux field and magnetic forces generated at the specimen. Excitation poles may then be additionally connected to an electric potential or a current supply which may be conveyed to the field forming poles in the specimen. In this case the same field forming poles that carry magnetic flux may also carry electric signals. This application of electric signals at the specimen may be used for any of a plurality of electrical phenomena. In one embodiment the generated electric fields may be used to generate forces or torques on charged or polarizable materials e.g. biological molecular or non biological within specimen well . The generated electric fields may be used to generate currents within the specimen well or at field forming poles to make electrochemical changes in the specimen or electrochemical measurements of the contents of the well.

The cylindrical openings containing the central coil posts are used to hold the coils that generate flux e.g. a wire may be wrapped around coil post and contained within cylindrical opening . The flux passes through the central post and is coupled into the field forming poles that are mounted to the pole plate on the bottom of a multiforce plate. The flux returns through flux return posts that enter through the multiforce plate through two wells neighboring the specimen well. In one embodiment exciter assembly may be machined from soft iron for high permeability and saturation and low hysteresis.

In one embodiment pole pattern laminates are designed to form the bottom of the multiforce plate. Shown in is an exemplary 4 4 array of field forming poles that may have been etched in a foil sheet e.g. permalloy using a combination of lithography and wet chemical etching. The field forming poles may be bonded to a cover glass sheet i.e. to make a pole plate that is suitable for high resolution microscopy. This bonded sheet may then be affixed to the underside of a bottomless multiwell plate such as a conventional microtiter plate. Shown in is a particular design of a pole plate . In one embodiment pole plate may include a sheet of magnetic permalloy foil etched to create pole flat regions in which a sharp pole tip is located near a flat one to form a high gradient magnetic field. It can be seen in that the rounded end of a tear drop piece fills one of the wells. The flux from the tip of piece re enters the metal film in the opposite flat whose wings cover the other two neighboring wells. A coil post i.e. an excitation pole is aligned to contact the rounded end of the teardrop shaped piece while two flux return posts in the other two neighboring wells are aligned to contact wings . The high gradient field location where the sharp tip opposes the flat one is arranged to be in the specimen well. When exciter assembly is placed on top of the multiforce plate illumination apertures as shown in of exciter assembly align with the specimen wells.

Multiforce plate may be designed to have field forming poles to be in contact with or proximity to all of the wells simultaneously. In one embodiment field forming poles may be separate from exciter assembly for convenient changing of the field configuration at the specimen array. In addition multiforce plate may be either incorporated into the specimen array i.e. multiwell plate or be separate. In one embodiment multiforce plate is incorporated into the multiwell plate so that each well has a number of field forming poles projecting into the specimen well to interact with the specimen.

Many other field forming pole configurations may be envisioned in the specimen well. One possible configuration may include a pole pole geometry which entails two identical poles that may have large forces near each of them but due to symmetry have low force in the center. Similarly a comb geometry with multiple sharp tips each providing force near its region has been considered. The comb configuration may provide larger effective force area product allowing for the application of significant force to more probes within the specimen well.

Similarly the present subject matter may also be used to form an electrical field gradient in the specimen well to apply forces to electrically polarized particles. In one embodiment this may be accomplished by inducing a dipole in a molecule or probe by applying a voltage to the field forming pole. This polarizes the molecule e.g. causes positive particles in the molecule or probe to go to one side and the negative particles to go to the opposite side in such a way that the gradient of the electrical field pulls the molecule in a certain direction. Notably different materials are affected by this dielectophoresis effect based on the polarizability of the material.

In one embodiment the present subject matter may be used to apply an alternating current AC field to the specimen well. This frequency dependent embodiment may be achieved by applying an AC voltage to the excitation pole. This action provides a dielectophoresis effect that is unique to each material type. Namely different materials have different frequency dependencies to dielectric functions. For example small molecules of a given material may be caused to rotate in response to a rapidly shifting field at a given frequency whereas large molecules of another material may not respond at this frequency. Thus the dielectrophoresis effect may be used in this scenario to separate molecules of contrasting size by modifying the frequency of the AC field.

In one embodiment the present subject matter may be used to conduct electrochemistry tests on specimens. For example an excitation pole may be provisioned with one or more electrodes that that are used to apply an electric field to a specimen in a specimen well. The electrodes may then be used to monitor current in the specimen. By monitoring the current changes in the chemistry of the specimen may be detected. Notably various properties of the specimen may be determined by monitoring the current such as measuring the conductivity of the specimen.

In block at least one field is generated. In one embodiment an electrical and or magnetic field is created by coupling excitation poles that are disposed on an exciter assembly with corresponding field forming poles positioned on a multiforce plate. The field forming poles may be positioned on the multiforce plate at a location corresponding to the wells in a multiwell plate.

In block the field forming poles may be used to form fields. In one embodiment the field forming poles are used to form at least one of an electric or magnetic field in the vicinity of the field forming poles. The field forming poles apply force via the electric or magnetic field and or their gradients to the probes located in the wells in order to move the probes and test the mechanical properties of the specimens in the wells.

In block an exciter assembly is brought into the proximity of the field forming poles for electrically or magnetically coupling to the field forming poles and for producing one of an electric or magnetic effect in the specimens. As stated above the electrical magnetic effect may be an electrophoretic effect a dielectrophoretic effect or an electrochemical effect. In block the effect is measured to determine an electric or magnetic property of the specimen. For example if the effect is an electrophoretic or dielectrophoretic effect separation of specimen molecules based on electric charge or polarizability may be measured. If the effect is an electrochemical effect a voltage may be applied and a corresponding current may be measured to determine conductivity of the specimen. If the effect is a frequency dependent effect an electric or magnetic field of a particular frequency may be applied and the corresponding frequency responses of the specimens may be measured.

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter may be changed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

