---

title: Displaying text of video in browsers on a frame by frame basis
abstract: A method, system, and computer program product for presenting text from multimedia data to a user is provided. In one embodiment, multimedia data containing associated text data is received by a data processing system. The associated text data is extracted from the multimedia data. The associated text data is then outputted without outputting moving images from the multimedia data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07730390&OS=07730390&RS=07730390
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07730390
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080313
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 09 838 428 filed Apr. 19 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 360 149 status allowed.

The present invention relates to an improved data processing system and more particularly to improved mechanisms for presenting multimedia data to users with disabilities.

Multimedia presentations rich in text audio video and graphics are becoming more and more common on the Web. They include newscasts educational material entertainment etc. Formats such as SMIL 1.0 can be used to create dynamic multimedia presentations by synchronizing the various media elements in time and space.

However dynamic multimedia presents a number of challenges to people with disabilities and to authors of accessible content. Authors must provide alternative equivalent content to audio and video so that users with visual or auditory impairments may make use of the presentation. Text content is most valuable to users with a wide range of disabilities as it may be rendered on the screen as speech or on a refreshable braille display. In addition search engines may process this text content. While there is cost to producing alternative content the effort may be reduced by using accessible authoring tools.

These alternatives to video and audio content must be synchronized with video and audio tracks. Alternatives that are improperly synchronized may be so confusing as to be unusable. Furthermore a presentation may occupy multiple sensory channels eyes ears and touch in parallel. Any content including alternative content that is presented to a given sense must be coordinated to ensure that it remains intelligible when rendered with other content meant for that sense. Additionally the very nature of synchronized multimedia content changes without user interaction poses an orientation challenge to some users with blindness low vision or cognitive disabilities. These users may still access a presentation as long as the author has provided adequate alternatives and players to allow sufficient control over the presentation.

Therefore it would be advantageous to have an improved method and apparatus for presenting multimedia data in a manner that is readably understandable and appropriate to the particular disability or product limitations of the user as well as being synchronized to any other content being presented.

The present invention provides a method system and computer program product for presenting text from multimedia data to a user. In one embodiment multimedia data containing associated text data is received by a data processing system. The associated text data is extracted from the multimedia data. The associated text data is then outputted without outputting moving images from the multimedia data.

With reference now to the figures depicts a pictorial representation of a network of data processing systems in which the present invention may be implemented. Network data processing system is a network of computers in which the present invention may be implemented. Network data processing system contains a network which is the medium used to provide communications links between various devices and computers connected together within network data processing system . Network may include connections such as wire wireless communication links or fiber optic cables.

In the depicted example a server is connected to network along with storage unit . In addition clients and also are connected to network . These clients and may be for example personal computers or network computers. In the depicted example server provides data such as boot files operating system images and applications to clients . Clients and are clients to server . Network data processing system may include additional servers clients and other devices not shown. In the depicted example network data processing system is the Internet with network representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial government educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course network data processing system also may be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as for example an intranet a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . is intended as an example and not as an architectural limitation for the present invention.

Referring to a block diagram of a data processing system that may be implemented as a server such as server in is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Data processing system may be a symmetric multiprocessor SMP system including a plurality of processors and connected to system bus . Alternatively a single processor system may be employed. Also connected to system bus is memory controller cache which provides an interface to local memory . I O bus bridge is connected to system bus and provides an interface to I O bus . Memory controller cache and I O bus bridge may be integrated as depicted.

Peripheral component interconnect PCI bus bridge connected to I O bus provides an interface to PCI local bus . A number of modems may be connected to PCI bus . Typical PCI bus implementations will support four PCI expansion slots or add in connectors. Communications links to network computers in may be provided through modem and network adapter connected to PCI local bus through add in boards.

Additional PCI bus bridges and provide interfaces for additional PCI buses and from which additional modems or network adapters may be supported. In this manner data processing system allows connections to multiple network computers. A memory mapped graphics adapter and hard disk may also be connected to I O bus as depicted either directly or indirectly.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware depicted in may vary. For example other peripheral devices such as optical disk drives and the like also may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted. The depicted example is not meant to imply architectural limitations with respect to the present invention.

The data processing system depicted in may be for example an IBM RISC System 6000 system a product of International Business Machines Corporation in Armonk N.Y. running the Advanced Interactive Executive AIX operating system.

With reference now to a block diagram illustrating a data processing system is depicted in which the present invention may be implemented. Data processing system is an example of a client computer. Data processing system employs a peripheral component interconnect PCI local bus architecture. Although the depicted example employs a PCI bus other bus architectures such as Accelerated Graphics Port AGP and Industry Standard Architecture ISA may be used. Processor and main memory are connected to PCI local bus through PCI bridge . PCI bridge also may include an integrated memory controller and cache memory for processor . Additional connections to PCI local bus may be made through direct component interconnection or through add in boards. In the depicted example local area network LAN adapter SCSI host bus adapter and expansion bus interface are connected to PCI local bus by direct component connection. In contrast audio adapter graphics adapter and audio video adapter are connected to PCI local bus by add in boards inserted into expansion slots. Expansion bus interface provides a connection for a keyboard and mouse adapter modem and additional memory . Small computer system interface SCSI host bus adapter provides a connection for hard disk drive tape drive and CD ROM drive . Typical PCI local bus implementations will support three or four PCI expansion slots or add in connectors.

An operating system runs on processor and is used to coordinate and provide control of various components within data processing system in . The operating system may be a commercially available operating system such as Windows 2000 which is available from Microsoft Corporation. An object oriented programming system such as Java may run in conjunction with the operating system and provide calls to the operating system from Java programs or applications executing on data processing system . Java is a trademark of Sun Microsystems Inc. Instructions for the operating system the object oriented operating system and applications or programs are located on storage devices such as hard disk drive and may be loaded into main memory for execution by processor .

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware in may vary depending on the implementation. Other internal hardware or peripheral devices such as flash ROM or equivalent nonvolatile memory or optical disk drives and the like may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted in . Also the processes of the present invention may be applied to a multiprocessor data processing system.

As another example data processing system may be a stand alone system configured to be bootable without relying on some type of network communication interface whether or not data processing system comprises some type of network communication interface. As a further example data processing system may be a Personal Digital Assistant PDA device which is configured with ROM and or flash ROM in order to provide non volatile memory for storing operating system files and or user generated data.

The depicted example in and above described examples are not meant to imply architectural limitations. For example data processing system also may be a notebook computer or hand held computer in addition to taking the form of a PDA. Data processing system also may be a kiosk or a Web appliance.

With reference now to a block diagram illustrating a prior art method of presenting video text and audio to a user is depicted. These frames of video may be presented to a user for example via broadcast from a server such as server in over a network such as for example network in to a client computer such as for example client in . Alternatively the video may be presented to a user using other methods such as for example using cable satellite or conventional broadcast television. In the prior art text associated with each frame of video is displayed to the user simultaneously with and in the same display area as the video of the frame . Thus as the various frames are presented to the user sequentially the text may also change with time. For most people such a method does not pose any problems in ascertaining the contents of the text . However for many people who either have difficulty reading quickly enough difficulty seeing or difficulty seeing and keeping track of moving images this method poses significant problems in accurately ascertaining the contents of the text. With the present invention as described below people with disabilities are able to ascertain information from multimedia sources that would otherwise be unobtainable.

With reference now to a block diagram illustrating an exemplary display of textual information corresponding to video frames is depicted in accordance with the present invention. The text from video frames in has been separated from the video and only the text is presented to the user in areas while the video portion animated or moving picture portion of the video frames is discarded.

Alternatively rather than separating the text from the video frames a still image of the video frame with its associated text may be presented to the user in the various areas . Thus the areas contain both still images and text. Thus rather than presenting a moving image that is hard for many people to interpret one or more still images with associated text is presented to the user. Therefore the user may have the opportunity to read the text at a speed comfortable for the user.

Furthermore in other embodiments the video frames represent only the frames of video in which text has changed with each of video frames separated by one or more intervening video frames in which the images may have changed but the associated text does not.

Also rather than presenting the text in several areas simultaneously the text with or without a still image corresponding to the video may be displayed individually and only changed once an indication has been received from the user that the user is ready for the next text. In this manner the user may control the speed at which text is displayed allowing the user to read the text at a comfortable pace.

Turning next to a block diagram of a browser program is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. A browser is an application used to navigate or view information or data in a distributed database such as the Internet or the World Wide Web.

In this example browser includes a user interface which is a graphical user interface GUI that allows the user to interface or communicate with browser . This interface provides for selection of various functions through menus and allows for navigation through navigation . For example menu may allow a user to perform various functions such as saving a file opening a new window displaying a history and entering a URL. Navigation allows for a user to navigate various pages and to select web sites for viewing. For example navigation may allow a user to see a previous page or a subsequent page relative to the present page. Preferences such as those illustrated in may be set through preferences .

Communications is the mechanism with which browser receives documents and other resources from a network such as the Internet. Further communications is used to send or upload documents and resources onto a network. In the depicted example communication uses HTTP. Other protocols may be used depending on the implementation. Documents that are received by browser are processed by language interpretation which includes an HTML unit and a JavaScript unit . Language interpretation will process a document for presentation on graphical display . In particular HTML statements are processed by HTML unit for presentation while JavaScript statements are processed by JavaScript unit .

Graphical display includes filter layout unit rendering unit and window management . These units are involved in presenting web pages to a user based on results from language interpretation . Filter parses data received from the Internet for textual data and when desired by the user removes the text from video frames and places the textual data into separate text frames wherein each text frame may contain textual information from a different video frame and several text frames may be positioned together on a display simultaneously. Thus a user can take his or her time in reading the text without being bothered by the moving images of the video corresponding to the text.

Browser is presented as an example of a browser program in which the present invention may be embodied. Browser is not meant to imply architectural limitations to the present invention. Presently available browsers may include additional functions not shown or may omit functions shown in browser . A browser may be any application that is used to search for and display content on a distributed data processing system. Browser may be implemented using known browser applications such as Netscape Navigator or Microsoft Internet Explorer. Netscape Navigator is available from Netscape Communications Corporation while Microsoft Internet Explorer is available from Microsoft Corporation.

With reference now to a process flow and program function for separating textual information from a video and presenting it to a user is depicted in accordance with the present invention. To begin a user s browser such as for example client receives data from a source such as for example from server via network step . The browser determines whether the data contains video or other moving image data step . If the data does not contain video then the data are presented to the user in a normal manner consistent with the prior art without using the text filter for filtering text from video content step . If the data does contain video then the browser determines whether the user has opted to have the text presented without the video step . If the user has not opted to have the text presented with filtering text from the video then the video and text is presented to the user step .

If the user has opted to have the text presented without the video then the data is parsed to discover textual information corresponding to the video frames step . The textual information is organized corresponding to a corresponding time portion of the video and is then presented to the user in a separate text frame in the browser display with potentially several text frames present at a given time wherein each text frame corresponds to a different time portion of the video step .

Optionally the filter may upon determining that text from one video frame is identical to text from another video frame refrain from displaying the same text twice. Furthermore the text displayed to the user may include text that describes the scene depicted in the video frame that would not otherwise be presented to the user if the video were displayed. This may be obtained for example if the author of the video included a textual description of the scenes denoted by tags or other indicia in the data containing the video. The browser by parsing the data could obtain this information and present it to the user in the manner described above. Furthermore the textual information presented in the text frames may include textual description of the audio portion of the video. The textual description of the audio portion may simply be a transcription of the spoken words or may be a description of the sound such as for example music playing. 

In one embodiment data may be presented to the browser in the form of a synchronized multimedia integration language SMIL in order to allow authors of video content to specify the text to be presented to a user. SMIL is an XML based language very similar to HTML and is a W3C standard authoring language for multimedia documents. By using SMIL an author can spatially position media elements on the display synchronize those elements and display media following user preferences such as for example language or bit rate.

Authors can make SMIL 1.0 presentations accessible to people with disabilities by observing the principles discussed in the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 . The Guidelines explain how to create documents that account for the diverse abilities tools and software of all Web users including people with combinations of visual auditory physical cognitive and neurological disabilities. This does not mean creating a great number of separate presentations but rather one integrated and accessible presentation.

By parsing an SMIL document the filter of the present invention may discover the text that the author wishes to present to the user and may then display this text to the user without the corresponding video. SMIL is merely an example of a language in which authors could use to create multimedia documents for which the filter of the present invention could be applied to present the information in a manner more suitable to certain users. However other formats could be used as well. Thus the current invention is not limited to SMIL created documents.

With reference now to a process flow and program function for extracting text from a video source and presenting the text with still images from associated video to a user is depicted in accordance with the present invention. To begin data is received step and a determination is made as to whether the data contains both video and associated text step . If the data does not contain both video and associated text then the data is presented to the user without modification step .

If the data does contain both video and associated text a determination is made as to whether the user wishes to be presented with text in the absence of moving images step . If the user does not wish to be presented with text without moving images then the data is presented to the user without modification step . If the user does wish to have the moving images removed then a determination is made as to which frames contain text and which text is different from preceding frames step . The user is then presented with only the video frames which contain text that is different from the text in preceding video frames step . This includes video frames that contain text but that are preceded by video frames that do not contain text and also includes the initial frame of the video if the initial frame contains text. The video frames may be presented to the user several at a time in separate frames as depicted in or may be presented to the user singly with the next frame displayed at the request of the user. Thus the text is presented in a manner that allows users who have difficulty processing moving images to comfortably read the text since the images are no longer moving images but rather are still images with associated text.

It is important to note that while the present invention has been described primarily in terms of receiving data at a computer using a browser the present invention is not limited to such implementation. For example the present invention may be incorporated into a television to decode text from video in a television presentation and present that text to users in the fashion as discussed above such that for example users who have difficulty viewing video information may nevertheless receive some content from the television program.

It is important to note that while the present invention has been described in the context of a fully functioning data processing system those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the processes of the present invention are capable of being distributed in the form of a computer readable medium of instructions and a variety of forms and that the present invention applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media actually used to carry out the distribution. Examples of computer readable media include recordable type media such a floppy disc a hard disk drive a RAM and CD ROMs.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

