---

title: Bias-instability reduction in fiber optic gyroscopes
abstract: A computer-implementable method of reducing bias instability in a fiber optic gyroscope includes receiving, with a computer, a first data set enabling the computer to generate a model of the gyroscope, including a light source, a photodetector, and a plurality of optical components and fiber sections coupling the light source to the photodetector, and a light signal to be propagated from the light source to the photodetector. The light signal has an associated wavelength spectrum. For each wavelength of the spectrum, the relative lightwave intensity reaching the photodetector is calculated. A signal-wave intensity and a spurious-wave intensity are determined from the calculated relative lightwave intensities. A scale factor is determined from the signal-wave intensity. The spurious-wave intensity is integrated over the wavelength spectrum of the light source to obtain a total spurious-wave intensity. A rate bias error is determined based on the total spurious-wave intensity and the scale factor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07777889&OS=07777889&RS=07777889
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 07777889
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080807
---
This invention was made with United States Government support under Government Contract No. N00030 08 C 0010. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

In a fiber optic gyroscope polarization errors result from interference between the primary lightwaves and spurious lightwaves as well as interference among spurious lightwaves. The weak spurious lightwaves come from polarization cross couplings at non ideal fiber splices in birefringent coil fiber at junctions between integrated optical circuit IOC waveguides and its pigtail fibers and inside optical components. These spurious lightwaves reaching the photodetector carry erroneous Sagnac phase information because they traveled nonreciprocal paths in the sensing loop. Methods of using Lyot type fiber depolarizers and tailoring of the depolarizer polarization maintaining PM fiber lengths have been suggested to mitigate polarization errors. In prior art polarization error models the polarization errors are evaluated in the time domain by keeping track of time and phase delays of spurious lightwaves originating from cross couplings in the optical circuit. Wavelength dependent properties of the optical component such as polarization dependent loss PDL polarization mode dispersion PMD etc. are often completely or partially ignored in the model. Specifically for a depolarized gyroscope using a non polarization maintaining single mode SM fiber coil the impact of the SM coil birefringence on the polarization error is empirically taken into account by assuming a broadened light source coherence function. Such simplifications lead to inaccuracies up to one order of magnitude of deviation in evaluation of polarization errors. More accurate modeling methods are needed to find optimal design parameters of interferometric fiber optic gyroscopes with reduced polarization error and bias instability.

In an embodiment of current invention a computer implementable method of evaluating reducing polarization error induced bias instability in a fiber optic gyroscope includes receiving with a computer a first data set enabling the computer to generate a model of the gyroscope including a light source a photodetector and a plurality of optical components and fiber sections coupling the light source to the photodetector and a light signal to be propagated from the light source to the photodetector. The light signal has an associated wavelength spectrum. For each wavelength of the spectrum the relative lightwave intensity reaching the photodetector is calculated using Jones matrices which take into account wavelength dependent properties of each component in the optical path. A scale factor is determined from the primary signal wave intensity after demodulation process. The demodulated spurious wave intensity i.e. an interference of two lightwaves carrying erroneous phase information is integrated over the wavelength spectrum of the light source to obtain the total spurious wave intensity. A rate bias error is determined based on the total spurious wave intensity and the scale factor.

Embodiments of the invention are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with embodiments of the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments of the invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The operating environment illustrated in typically includes at least some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by one or more components of such operating environment. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by one or more components of such operating environment. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing an embodiment of the invention includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and memory .

Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Additionally device may have additional features functionality. For example device may also include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also contain communications connection s that allow the device to communicate with other devices. Communications connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included.

An embodiment of the present invention pertains to interferometric fiber optic gyroscopes IFOGs and particularly to depolarized IFOGs using non polarization maintaining SM fiber in the sensing coil. More particularly an embodiment of the present invention pertains to the reduction of bias instability originated from polarization errors. Embodiments include both analytical computational and empirical methods of testing and designing such gyroscopes.

The optical circuit of a depolarized gyroscope is shown in . Depending on the embodiment the circuit may be computationally modeled using computer executable instructions or may be a tangible device. A broadband light source generates a lightwave right arrow over E that is composed of many waves with different wavelengths and polarization states at the splice . In the general case the light emitted by broadband light source may be described as a summation of many optical waves i.e. right arrow over E right arrow over E p where is wavelength the spectrum of which ranges from to and p is a vector on the Poincar sphere representing a particular polarization state. The phases of these waves with different wavelengths and polarization states may be uncorrelated. For a perfect unpolarized light source the light intensity associated with all orthogonal polarization states will be identical. When the unpolarized light passes through an optical component with polarization dependent loss PDL the lightwaves of orthogonal polarization states experience different losses and acquire different intensity at the output of the component.

A strict theoretical description of a broadband light source may require taking into account all the wavelength components and polarization states. However for simplicity of the following discussion and without loss of generality it may be assumed that the light source only contains two orthogonal polarization states for each wavelength component arriving at splice in . The electric field of the broadband light source can thus be expressed by a Jones vector

The light fields reaching the photodetector can be modeled using a Jones matrix description of the gyro optical circuit . Element can be any kind of directional coupler. Here a 2 2 coupler is used as an example which may include polarization maintaining PM fiber leads. There is normally a rotation angle between the input light PDL axis and the PM fiber pass axis. The Jones matrix of such an angle rotation at splice can be expressed as

If light emitted by the light source experiences wavelength dependent PDL the rotation angle may be a function of wavelength . For simplicity we implicitly assume the wavelength dependence of every parameter and omit the in the following expressions.

The propagation of light through the directional coupler including its fiber leads can be described by a Jones matrix H. This matrix takes into account the polarization dependent splitting ratio PDL cross couplings and phase delays incurred by the coupler as light propagates from splice to splice .

Element may be a piece of PM fiber that connects the coupler and an integrated optical circuit IOC . Element has a Jones matrix of

The splices and between PM fibers and the connection points and between IOC pigtail fibers and the IOC waveguides are not perfect. They introduce small polarization cross couplings which can be described by Jones matrices

The Jones matrix for propagation of light in the counter clockwise direction is the transpose of the clockwise counterpart i.e.

The integrated optical circuit IOC may be composed of a polarizing element alternatively the polarizing element itself could be a waveguide a beam splitter combiner and two or more electrodes for phase modulation of the light beams passing through the IOC waveguides and . This phase modulation function of IOC is used for gyro bias modulation which typically changes the phase of light polarized along the pass axis the horizontal x axis is assumed here with a period equal to loop transit time . If a clockwise propagating lightwave experiences a modulation phase t at the upper waveguide it experiences a different modulation phase t at the lower waveguide. During the same time the counter clockwise wave can experience a modulation phase of t at the lower waveguide and t at the upper waveguide. For the situation of push pull square wave modulation one can simply assume t t and t t without loss of generality. In this case the matrix that takes into account the IOC bias modulation and polarization extinction ratio for clockwise light propagation is

The combined electric fields of CW and CCW light at IOC output are therefore determined by the following equation 

Taking into account the Sagnac phase 2 induced by the rotation sensing and expanding the above equation yields 12 13 

To obtain the electric field at the photodetector matrix F is used to describe the optic path from point to the photodetector . It is 

In equation 19 and express the phase differences of the complex numbers M and N M and L N and L L and J Aand A. Similarly term represents the phase differences of complex numbers Fand F.

Demodulation of the above push pull square wave bias modulated signal is accomplished by calculating the differences of the light intensity in the neighboring time slots of loop transit time . Since the flips the sign in the neighboring period the demodulated signal is calculated by 20 

Demodulation of other terms in 19 yields two major types of polarization errors. One type is called amplitude type error which is proportional to IOC polarization extinction ratio . The other type is called intensity type error which is proportional to . Higher order terms are extremely small and therefore are neglected for purposes of simplicity in the following discussion. Performing demodulation calculation similar to those in Equations 20 and 21 the amplitude type polarization error light intensity along the x axis is 

The electric fields Aand A in expressions from 21 to 26 can be replaced by the incoming broadband light source fields Eand E. After applying Eq. 7 the intensity A A and AA can be expanded into the following form 

In the above equations the terms that have phase difference of Eand Ecomponents can be ignored because they are uncorrelated and average to zero over time.

Summing the intensities along both x and y axes and using equations E square root over S E t square root over S implied in Eq. 1 for light with intensity S at wavelength the main signal light intensity becomes 4 sin 2 sin 4 . 30 

The total main signal intensity is obtained through wavelength integration over the entire light source spectrum. From 30 the scale factor to convert light intensity to rate in unit of deg hr is obtained 

where Land Dare the sensing coil fiber length and average coil diameter and is the light source mean wavelength. The scale factor is used to convert spurious light intensities to bias error with unit of deg hr.

The total error rate originated from both amplitude and intensity type polarization errors may thus be 

Integration over wavelength from to covers the broadband light source wavelength range. Data characterizing the total error rate and or other error information may be displayed to output device .

The approach described above predicts a bias offset when there are polarization errors. Since the polarization errors are the result of interference of waves propagating along different respective optical paths relative changes of optical paths will cause the corresponding polarization error to fluctuate. The said optical path depends on the polarization state of the light. For a PM fiber there are two polarization modes. One mode is polarized along the so called slow polarization axis in the fiber cross section. It acquires more phase delays than the other polarization mode which is polarized along the orthogonal fast polarization axis . The slow mode effectively travels along a longer optical path than the fast mode. To quantify the phase difference associated with the fast and slow modes in a PM fiber it is advantageous to express the lengths of fiber in terms of beat length L such that L n where is the light wavelength and n is the difference in effective mode refractive index between the fast and the slow polarization modes. Typically Lranges from 1 mm to 4 mm. The phase difference between slow and fast light after propagating over fiber length of Lis 2 . Typically the fiber beat length Lincreases slightly when temperature increases i.e. the temperature is ramped . Changing the PM fiber temperature is equivalent to changing the phase difference of the slow and fast light waves and is one of the effective ways to excite polarization error induced bias fluctuations. For example if the PM fiber is assumed to have a length of v 10000 L and the beat length Lof the PM fiber has a temperature sensitivity of 500 ppm C. the relative phase change of the fast and slow light will undergo five cycles per C. i.e. 10 C. illustrates a plot of such relative bias versus temperature change for a gyroscope with polarization errors using an approach according to an embodiment of the invention. Since absolute bias depends on specific gyroscope design only relative bias amplitude values in arbitrary linear unit are used throughout the document without lost of significances. To perform a real temperature ramp measurement the gyro is put in a temperature chamber under constant rotation rate e.g. the earth rotation rate. The temperature is gradually increased while rates are continuously read from the gyro. If the gyro under test has substantial polarization errors the rates will exhibit sinusoidal oscillation patterns versus temperature. The temperature period of the oscillation is a good indicator of the phase delay involved in the polarization error. Measuring bias fluctuation under temperature ramping of selected sections of the optical circuit is an effective way to identify the cause of the polarization error and allow a testing user to replace or otherwise modify inferior portions in the circuit with more optimally configured portions. Additionally based on the above described analytical approach an embodiment includes analytically simulating the bias fluctuations under temperature ramping. The temperature ramping test and methods according to embodiments of the invention are powerful tools in gyroscope polarization error investigations.

In the calculation method developed above the wavelength dependent Jones matrix of the single mode non polarization maintaining fiber coil is used. The matrix can actually be measured directly using a polarization mode dispersion PMD characterization instrument. The coil matrix can also be modeled by treating the coil as a concatenation of many random birefringent elements. With the availability of the coil Jones matrix the coherence function and the wavelength dependent differential group delay DGD of the coil can be determined. shows two coil coherence functions. Coil I is represented by a solid line and coil II is represented by a dashed line. These coil coherence functions or autocorrelation functions characterize interference fringe contrast as a function of delay length of broadband lightwaves passing through the coil. At delay length of 2 mm coil I exhibits much smaller fringe contrast 30 dB compared to coil II 18 dB . shows the wavelength dependent DGDs and the averaged DGDs of the corresponding coil I and coil II. Coil I has an average DGD value of 0.85 ps much smaller than that of coil II dashed line average DGD 1.81 ps . In other words coil I has smaller internal birefringence than coil II. In the design of depolarized gyroscopes fabricating coils with low birefringence is advantageous in lowering polarization errors. shows a comparison of relative bias fluctuation amplitude under temperature ramping for two gyroscopes having identical design except for their respective coils coil I and II. illustrates that the gyroscope using coil II dashed lines with circle marks exhibits significantly larger bias instability than that using coil I solid line .

The coupler in the optical circuit also plays an important role in controlling polarization errors. As mentioned earlier the Jones matrix of the coupler shall take into account the polarization dependent splitting ratio PDSR and PDL. For light propagating from point to point the x and y polarized light have different amplitude transmission coefficient sand s. There are also cross couplings between x and y polarized light that can be quantified by parameter k. After taking into account the phase delays d dof the input and output pigtails and of the coupler the Jones matrix of the coupler can be written as

Most of the spurious light producing polarization errors originates from cross couplings at fiber splices or in optical components. It is therefore advantageous to reduce these cross couplings as much as possible. shows a dependence of relative bias error as a function of the cross coupling at splice i.e. k . It is obvious that smaller kproduces smaller bias. A method according to an embodiment to reduce cross couplings at splices between two PM fibers is to use the identical or similar fiber types. The distortions involved at the joint points are reduced when the two connecting fibers have the same mode field diameter stress elements and refraction index.

In the calculation of polarization error one can observe that the amplitude type polarization error is proportional to the IOC polarization extinction ratio PER and the intensity type error is proportional to . As an example shows a calculation for polarization error induced relative bias instabilities as a function of IOC PER. Indeed by selecting IOC with smaller PER bias fluctuation amplitude may be reduced.

Design of depolarizer and the PM fiber are effective ways to reduce gyro bias error according to an embodiment. As illustrated in the example of the depolarizer is composed of two sections and . Section is composed of two pieces of PM fiber and with polarization axis oriented about 45 with each other at splice . Section is composed of two pieces of PM fiber and with polarization axis oriented about 45 with each other at splice . Section is a piece of PM fiber that generates delays for the slow and fast light before such light enters the IOC . The lengths of PM fibers and are designated in as respectively v z x y and w. Together with IOC pigtail and waveguide lengths and determination of the lengths of PM fibers and are important in the design of depolarized gyroscopes from the standpoint of controlling polarization error. These lengths determine the relative time delays involved in the broadband light source interference. Longer delays cause decrease of interference fringe contrast and less bias fluctuations under temperature changes. By tailoring the lengths of these PM fibers it is possible to control the polarization error below a certain value. For example shows in association with gyroscopes employing respectively coil I and coil II discussed above a dependence of polarization error induced relative bias fluctuation amplitude on the length of PM fiber in unit of beats for a design of depolarizer according to an embodiment. Selecting length v far away from an error peaking region is an effective way to reduce polarization error induced bias instability.

In an embodiment the length w is selected to be approximately twice that of length x i.e. w 2x . In addition the physical lengths of the depolarizer section and are kept approximately the same i.e. z x y . Sections may be winded onto the coil with the symmetrical points i.e. points with equal optical length measured from splitting point in IOC located close to each other to avoid the temperature fluctuation induced non reciprocal phase noise i.e. the so called Shupe effect induced noise . To minimize the overall depolarizer length the length y and IOC pigtail lengths and may be selected to be as short as possible. In such an embodiment of the model the optimal lengths of x and v are determined once the IOC coupler and coil properties are known.

As an example of showing the method to optimize the depolarizer and PM fiber design the calculated relative bias fluctuation amplitude under temperature ramp is plotted as functions of x and v in the contour plots illustrated in and . is plotted for a gyroscope using the coil I associated with that has relatively smaller birefringence. is plotted for a gyroscope using the coil II associated with that has relatively larger birefringence. In both figures dark regions have larger bias errors than those in the light regions. Same color codes are used for and for comparison. Several v x regions exhibit low bias errors and may thus be preferable. These regions are marked as A B C D and E. They are located between five dark regions with large bias fluctuation amplitudes. From comparison of and it may be seen that the coil birefringence has significant impact on the gyroscope design. Larger coil birefringence causes minimization of the optimal design regions and larger background bias errors in the relatively optimal design regions.

Still referring to and the four narrow dark regions roughly along the southwest northeast direction are found to have v x relations close to 4ridge between and 3ridge between and 2ridge between and ridge between and 37 

where d L y d dis the relative phase delay of the fast and slow light of the optical path between 32 and 27 which includes the IOC waveguide pigtails and and the depolarizer PM fiber . These regions of high bias instability are associated with amplitude type polarization errors originating from the interference of the IOC passed x polarized waves and the IOC rejected y polarized waves traveling through the sensing loop . A preferable choice of design is often situated in the region A because of its larger low error region providing greater margins against coil uncertainties. However designs in region A may require longer lengths of depolarizer and PM fibers which may be of concern for gyro packaging and control of Shupe effect. Regions B C D and E are therefore of interest in design choices for reducing the PM fiber lengths.

However the depolarizer x length cannot be lowered below a certain value. The broader vertically oriented regions on the left sides of and can undermine bias performance if the length x is too small. This region is associated with polarization errors insensitive to the PM fiber length v. Such errors mostly originate from interference among waves passing through the PM fiber in the same polarization axis. As depolarizer length x increases this type of error decreases.

As another illustration of an embodiment of a depolarized gyroscope one can optimize the lengths x and w as separate parameters rather than observing the relation w 2x. In such an embodiment the length y can be set to a fixed value and w y is set equal to the sum of x and z i.e. z y w x . As such the depolarizer sections and have the same length. Next the PM fiber may be first set to a large value. As discussed elsewhere herein it is known that v insensitive error can be minimized by setting the length v to a very large value. The design may now be reduced to the determination of the optimal lengths of x and w. Once optimal x and w is found to minimize the v insensitive polarization error the PM fiber length v can then be determined to reduce the v sensitive polarization errors. One will see below that w 2x used in an earlier discussed embodiment is indeed one of the optimal selections of the w x relationship for better bias stability.

An embodiment includes using a temperature ramping approach for example to select optimized values of depolarizer fiber section length w and x substantially in the regions of F G H and J shown in and to minimize v insensitive polarization errors while setting v at a substantially long length. In one exemplary embodiment w is substantially equal to 8000 L x is substantially equal to 4000 L y is substantially equal to 500 L and z substantially equal to 4500 L. Additionally the v may be substantially longer than 16500 L region A in and substantially equal to 12500 L region B in and equal to 8000 L region C in and substantially equal to 4000 L region D in and or substantially less than 1000 L region E in and .

The relative bias amplitude in these regions can be clearly seen by referring back to which is a plot of bias versus PM fiber length v when the x 4000 L y 500 Land w 8000 Lare selected. Again the solid line is associated with the coil I and the dashed line associated with the coil II. As is illustrated the designs using larger v value regions A B and C around v 16500 L v 12500 and 8000 Lhave better tolerance to fiber length uncertainties than those using smaller v values regions D and E around v 4000 Land v

While preferred embodiments of the invention have been illustrated and described as noted above many changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is not limited by the disclosure of the preferred embodiment. Instead the invention should be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow.

