---

title: Vehicle armrest positioning assembly
abstract: A vehicle armrest positioning assembly () for adjustably positioning a vehicle armrest () on a vehicle seat frame () includes an elongated adjuster () that provides armrest positioning and is released by a release actuator () a release mechanism () to permit angular adjustment of the armrest positioning. The adjuster () includes a housing () that positions an adjusting rod () by a helical lock spring () to control the armrest positioning and adjustment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07845732&OS=07845732&RS=07845732
owner: Porter Group, LLC
number: 07845732
owner_city: Novi
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080430
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 932 458 filed by Hsing Lung Lewis Liu and Karl A. Murphy on May 31 2007 under the title VEHICLE SEAT ARMREST HAVING TILT ADJUSTER.

This invention relates to a vehicle armrest positioning assembly for supporting an armrest on a vehicle seat frame.

Many vehicle seats include one or two armrests for providing seating comfort. These armrests have previously been pivoted between a generally forward and horizontal use position and a generally vertical but slightly rearwardly inclined nonuse position.

An object of the present invention is to provide an improved vehicle armrest positioning assembly for supporting an armrest on a vehicle seat frame.

In carrying out the above object the vehicle armrest positioning assembly of the invention includes a pivotal support arm for mounting within an armrest and having a support end for pivotally supporting the armrest about a pivotal axis on the vehicle seat frame to position the armrest with respect to the seat frame. An elongated adjuster of the positioning assembly includes a housing mounted by the support arm an elongated adjusting rod having one end supported by the housing and having an intermediate portion extending from the housing as well as having a distal end. The distal end of the adjusting rod cooperates with the seat frame to control the pivotal positioning of the armrest on the seat frame. A helical lock spring mounted within the housing receives the one end of the adjusting rod and the helical lock spring has a first end that is fixed to the housing and a second end that is movable with respect to the housing about the one end of the adjusting rod. The helical lock spring clamps about the one end of the adjusting rod to position the adjusting rod against movement inwardly or outwardly of the housing. A release member of the adjuster is mounted by the housing for rotation about the one end of the adjusting rod and has a connection to the second end of the helical lock spring. A release mechanism of the positioning assembly is mounted on the support arm and has a release actuator for rotating the release member of the adjuster to move the second end of the lock spring and increase the diameter thereof so the adjusting rod can move inwardly or outwardly of the housing and thereby adjust the position of the armrest.

As disclosed the vehicle armrest positioning assembly includes a control member pivotally supported on the support end of the support arm and having a connection portion and a stop portion. A pivotal connection connects the connection portion of the control portion to the distal end of the adjusting rod and the stop portion has a stop surface for contacting a stop on the seat frame to position the armrest in a position whose angle is controlled by the extent to which the adjusting rod extends from the housing of the adjuster. The pivotal connection includes a pivot pin and the distal end of the adjuster rod and the connection portion of the control member have pivot openings that receive the pivot pin to pivotally connect the adjuster rod and the control member. Also the support arm includes a stop surface for contacting the stop on the seat frame to position the armrest in a rearwardly inclined nonuse position.

The vehicle armrest positioning assembly is disclosed as having the adjuster including a biasing spring that biases the adjusting rod outwardly with respect to the housing. The biasing spring as disclosed is a helical spring through which the adjusting rod extends and the biasing spring has one end that contacts the adjuster housing and another end that contacts the adjusting rod adjacent its distal end to provide the biasing of the adjusting rod outwardly with respect to the housing. The adjuster housing as disclosed includes a bushing mounted on the support arm and having an opening through which the adjuster rod extends and is slidable. A sleeve is mounted by the bushing and receives the helical lock spring through which the adjuster rod extends. The first end of the helical lock spring is connected to the adjuster housing at the bushing and the sleeve also receives the release member to which the second end of the helical lock spring is connected. Also a bracket that mounts the bushing of the adjuster housing on the support arm.

The release mechanism as disclosed includes a first class release lever having an intermediate portion pivotally mounted on the support arm a first end that contacts the release member of the adjuster and a second end that is moved by the release actuator to thereby rotate the release member of the adjuster to move the second end of the lock spring and increase the diameter thereof so the adjusting rod can move inwardly or outwardly of the housing and adjust the position of the armrest. The first and second ends of the release lever have bent shapes that respectively contact the release lever of the adjuster and the release actuator. Furthermore the release actuator includes a release button mounted on the support arm and a button spring biases the release button into contact with the second end of the release lever.

In addition the bracket mounted on the support arm has a mounting hole and the support arm and the bushing each also have a mounting hole. A pin extends through the mounting holes of the bracket the support arm and the bushing to pivotally mount the bushing of the adjuster housing on the support arm. The bracket has a flange which includes a pivot opening and the release mechanism includes a pivotal connection of the intermediate portion of the first class release lever.

The objects features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings.

With reference to a vehicle seat armrest generally indicated by includes an armrest positioning assembly constructed in accordance with the present invention to provide support of the armrest on the vehicle seat frame which is partially shown.

As illustrated in the armrest positioning assembly of the invention includes a support arm which is mounted within the armrest and has a support end for pivotally supporting the armrest about a pivotal axis A on the vehicle seat frame to position the armrest with respect to the seat frame.

As shown in an elongated adjuster of positioning assembly includes a housing that is collectively indicated by and is mounted on the support arm. An elongated adjusting rod of the adjuster has one end supported by the housing and an intermediate portion extending from the housing as well as having a distal end . A helical lock spring best shown in receives the one end of the adjusting rod . This helical lock spring has a first end that is fixed to the housing as is hereinafter more fully described and also has a second end that is movable with respect to the housing about the one end of the adjusting rod as is also hereinafter more fully described. The helical lock spring clamps around the one end of the adjusting rod to position the adjusting rod against movement inwardly or outwardly of the housing. A release member of the adjuster is mounted on the housing for rotation about the one end of the adjusting rod and has a connection to the second end of the lock spring .

As shown in a release mechanism of the positioning assembly has a release actuator mounted on the support arm for rotating the release member to move the second end of the lock spring and increase the diameter of the lock spring so the adjusting rod can move inwardly or outwardly of the housing as shown by arrows in to thereby permit adjustment of the position of the armrest on the seat frame. This adjustment can be from the horizontal both upwardly and downwardly in inclined orientations. Downward inclinations of up to about 15 and upward inclinations of about 25 from the horizontal have been demonstrated as useful in providing seating comfort although any inclination that is helpful for the particular seating application can be used.

As illustrated in the positioning assembly as disclosed includes a control member pivotally supported on the support end of the support arm by a tubular pivot through which a seat frame pivot pin can extend to provide the pivotal support of the support arm and hence the armrest. The control member includes a connection portion and a stop portion . A pivotal connection connects the connection portion of the control member to the distal end of the adjusting rod and the stop portion of the control member has a stop surface for contacting a stop on the seat frame to position the armrest in a position whose angle is controlled by the extent to which the adjusting rod extends from the housing of the adjuster . More specifically when the adjusting rod extends outwardly from the adjuster housing a greater extent the control member is rotated counterclockwise with respect to the positioning arm support end so that the positioning arm is inclined upwardly toward the left with a greater angle. Conversely when the adjusting rod extends outwardly of the adjuster housing a lesser extent the control member is positioned more toward a clockwise direction so that the contact of the stop surface with the vehicle seat frame stop positions the positioning arm with a lesser upward inclination or even a downward inclination toward the left.

As best shown in the pivotal connection includes a pivot pin and the distal end of the adjusting rod and the connection portion of the control member have pivot openings and respectively that receive the pivot pin to pivotally connect the adjuster rod and the control member.

The support arm is movable from the use position of to a nonuse position as shown in extending upwardly and with a rearward inclination with respect to the seat and has a stop surface for contacting the stop of the seat frame to position the armrest in this nonuse position. Thus in the use position the vehicle seat frame stop is contacted by the stop surface of the control member generally at its lower side while the stop is contacted by the positioning arm stop surface generally at its upper side in the nonuse position of . Of course the stop can include stop surfaces that are spaced farther from each other or as separate stop portions to provide the two different modes of stop functioning.

As best shown in the adjuster includes a biasing spring that biases the adjusting rod outwardly with respect to its housing . This biasing spring is a helical spring through which the adjusting rod extends. The helical biasing spring has one end that contacts the adjuster housing at a washer through which the adjusting rod also extends and has another end that contacts the adjusting rod adjacent its enlarged distal end to provide the biasing of the adjusting rod outwardly with respect to the housing.

As illustrated by the exploded perspective view of the adjuster housing includes a bushing that is mounted on the support arm in a manner that is hereinafter more fully described and that may be made of powdered metal. This bushing has an opening through which the end of the adjusting rod extends and is slidable. Bushing also has a positioning rib that extends parallel to the opening that receives the adjusting rod . A sleeve of the adjuster housing has a generally tubular shape and is mounted by the bushing with the bushing rib received within a sleeve slot to prevent rotation of the sleeve on the bushing.

As shown in the bushing has an axial slot that receives the first end of the lock spring for connection to the adjuster housing at the bushing. The release member is also received within the sleeve and has a sleeve like construction including a slot that receives the second end of the lock spring to provide the connection to the lock spring. The housing sleeve as shown in has a partial opening through which a release tab of the release member extends outwardly at one end circumferential side of its slot shown in . The bushing opening and the release member have ramp surfaces that contact the lock spring adjacent its opposite ends and at angular orientations so that circumferential movement of the second end of the lock spring by the release member upon rotational movement of its tab increases the diameter of the lock spring to allow the adjusting rod to slide inwardly and outwardly. This movement of the release tab is provided by operation of the actuator of release mechanism as further described below.

With reference to the positioning assembly also includes a bracket for pivotally mounting the bushing of the adjuster housing on the positioning arm . The bracket the bushing and the positioning arm have respective mounting holes and through which a pin extends to mount the bracket on the positioning arm and pivotally support the bushing in the adjacent end of adjuster . Mounting pin may be a roll pin having a press fit with the bracket and positioning arm holes and or may be secured by forming its ends or with the use of suitable fasteners and the bushing mounting opening has a spaced fit with the pin so as permit pivoting. Bracket has flanges that contact the positioning arm as best shown in to provide its mounting in cooperation with the mounting pin . In addition bracket has a mounting arm which as shown in has a pivot opening for mounting the release mechanism as is hereinafter more fully described.

With reference to the release mechanism includes a first class lever having an intermediate portion and first and second ends and . A pivotal connection includes a pivot pin that pivotally mounts the intermediate portion of the release lever on the bracket flange which has the pivot opening as shown in . The first end of the release lever contacts the release member at its release tab while the second end of the release lever is contacted by the release actuator . Manual operation of the release actuator pivots the release lever and thereby moves the release member about the adjusting rod so that the lock spring shown in has its diameter increased in order to allow the adjusting member to move inwardly or outwardly with respect to the adjuster housing . When the armrest is moved upwardly with the release actuator the adjusting member moves outwardly of the adjuster housing and conversely moves inwardly when the armrest is adjusted downwardly. Also as previously mentioned when the armrest is not needed it is pivoted to the rearwardly inclined position of with its stop surface contacting the vehicle seat frame stop .

As shown in the release actuator includes a release button having a release projection that extends through a hole in the outer end of the positioning arm and also through a spring for securement by an attachment clip . The spring biases the release projection against the end of the release lever so that its one end is maintained in contact with the release tab of the release member but is insufficient to overcome the bias of the lock spring. Manual depression of the release button as shown by arrow in provides rotation of the release lever as shown by the curved arrow to move the release member and allow the adjusting member movement as described above.

Helical spring locking has previously been used as disclosed by U.S. Pat. No. 3 874 480 Porter et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 157 826 Porter et al. the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

While embodiments of the invention have been illustrated and described it is not intended that these embodiments illustrate and describe all possible forms of the invention. Rather the words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

