---

title: Passive magneto-rheological vibration isolation apparatus using a shielding sleeve
abstract: A damper containing magneto-rheological (“MR”) fluid and a plunger lies between and is mechanically coupled both to a fixture and a vibration source. The plunger has a head immersed in the MR fluid. Annular magnets circumscribe the damper and produce a magnetic field surrounding the damper. A tubular shielding sleeve composed of magnetically impermeable material surrounds a portion of the damper. The sleeve is mechanically coupled both to the fixture and the vibration source by springs, and can translate relative to the damper to affect the strength of the magnetic field acting on the MR fluid surrounding the plunger head. The sleeve oscillates responsive to vibration of the vibration source and controls the viscosity of the MR fluid surrounding the plunger head in proportion to the amplitude of the sleeve's oscillation. The resonant frequency of the sleeve is adjusted to approximate the fundamental resonance of the fixture.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07628254&OS=07628254&RS=07628254
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 07628254
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080919
---
This application is a divisional of Ser. No. 11 251 008 U.S. Pat. No. 7 445 094 filed on Oct. 11 2005 and claims the benefit of the foregoing filing date.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States for all governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty.

The present invention is generally related to the field of vibration isolation. More particularly the present invention is a passive system that uses magneto rheological fluid to reduce vibration transmission over a broad frequency spectrum.

A problem often faced in the field of engineering is vibration isolation. Many current applications use devices to isolate a sensitive component from a vibrating environment or to reduce the transmission of vibration from a vibrating component into its surroundings. Currently there are numerous ways of accomplishing vibration isolation including passive apparatus such as spring and damper systems and active devices which utilize actuation to achieve isolation and can be adapted to comply with environmental parameters and flight conditions. The drawbacks to active devices are that they require additional power sources and are typically more complex and less robust than passive mechanisms. For many applications passive systems are preferred because they are simpler and self contained. U.S. Pat. No. 6 135 390 issued to Sciulli et al. teaches a passive mechanism for isolating spacecraft using titanium flexures to act as soft springs. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 947 240 and 5 803 213 issued to Davis et al. disclose a system of passive dampers in a closed geometric shape for use in load vibration isolation.

A fairly recent active material development is magneto rheological MR fluid. MR fluids are comprised of micron sized magnetically polarized particles suspended in a carrier fluid. When activated by a magnetic field the particles align along magnetic field lines and change the material s flow characteristics such as its viscosity and bulk modulus. By varying the magnetic field flux acting on the MR fluid the viscous damping may be modulated. U.S. Pat. No. 5 683 615 issued to Munoz describes the behavior and different chemical compositions of MR fluids.

Most prior vibration isolation devices using MR fluids have employed an active control system to regulate the magnetic field actuating the MR fluid. For example U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 082 719 6 196 529 and 6 196 528 issued to Shtarkman et al. disclose a spacecraft antenna vibration control damper. The vibration of the spacecraft antenna during maneuvers is sensed by an external sensor which in turn activates the magnetic field on the MR fluid through a controller and a power supply.

The few inventions that have utilized a partially passive system for MR fluid damping are mostly for motor vehicle applications and have some aspect of active isolation. For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 632 361 issued to Wulff et al. involves a passive MR damper that includes a constant magnetic field created by a permanent magnet in a piston while also having a variable magnetic field provided by an electric coil. The constant magnetic field provides a pre stress on the MR fluid. It is not completely passive in that it requires active control for the main isolation with the electric coil. The passive permanent magnet is typically for backup and pre stress. 

There is a need in the art for a passive system that makes beneficial use of the advantages inherent to magneto rheological fluid to obtain vibration isolation over a broad frequency spectrum. The present invention fulfills this need in the art.

The present invention is a passive vibration isolation system that uses a damper containing magneto rheological MR fluid in conjunction with elements that provide a varying magnetic field to provide frequency dependent isolation to hardware fixtures subject to vibration. The varying magnetic field increases the viscosity of the MR fluid thus increasing the damping by interaction between the MR fluid and a plunger as the isolation system is vibrated.

In one embodiment a tuned oscillator including a permanent magnet mounted on an adjustable spring oscillates within a primary wire coil at a designed frequency to induce an electric current that in turn creates a magnetic field in a secondary wire coil surrounding an MR fluid filled damper. The magnetic field created by the secondary wire coil actuates the MR fluid and changes the viscosity and damping characteristics of the damper.

In another embodiment a shielding sleeve composed of magnetically impermeable material is mounted on springs. A damper containing MR fluid is located within the hollow sleeve such that the sleeve regulates the magnetic field acting on the MR fluid by oscillating relative to the damper. The shielding sleeve oscillates when excited by a vibration source. The damping of the MR fluid increases at the resonance frequency of the sleeve where sleeve displacements are large and the damping is minimized at other frequencies when the sleeve displacement is small.

The resonance frequency of the damping elements of the invention are adjusted to match the resonance frequency of the system being isolated. This reduces vibration transmission at the resonance frequency of the system being isolated while also providing low vibration transmission above the aforementioned resonance frequency.

Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.

The present invention utilizes the properties of MR fluids to provide a passive and adjustable vibration isolation system. Referring to passive damping system of the present invention is schematically illustrated wherein MR fluid damper is shown positioned in parallel with suspension spring with both elements being located in between and connected to top fixture and bottom fixture . When not at rest bottom fixture vibrates at a frequency of . Damper is rigidly connected to bottom fixture by rigid rod . Damper is slideably connected to top fixture by plunger . Plunger is comprised of rigid stem and head . Damper is comprised of a cylindrical housing that contains plunger head and MR fluid .

Primary solenoid coil circumscribes permanent magnet . Magnet is mounted on an end of adjustable spring such as a cantilever or coil spring. The other end of spring is attached to bottom fixture . The stiffness of spring k is adjustable. Magnet is constrained to only oscillate along one axis i.e. vertically which is collinear with the primary oscillation of bottom fixture . Primary solenoid coil is fixed relative to magnet and bottom fixture its supporting structure is not shown so that coil remains stationary relative to the aforementioned elements when bottom fixture vibrates at a frequency and magnet consequently oscillates. Secondary solenoid coil circumscribes damper and is rigidly attached to damper so that it translates with damper . Alternatively coil may be fixed in position relative to damper so that coil remains stationary with respect to damper when damper moves in response to the vibration of bottom fixture . Wires electrically connect primary solenoid coil to secondary solenoid coil .

The resonance frequency of the system comprised of spring and connected magnet is determined by the square root of the ratio of the stiffness of spring k and the mass m of magnet as shown by the following equation 

When subjected to vibration from bottom fixture magnet oscillates freely within and relative to stationary primary solenoid coil resulting in a changing magnetic flux through primary solenoid coil . This induces a flow of electrical current i t through wires and consequently through secondary solenoid coil .

The induced current i t flowing through secondary solenoid coil creates a magnetic field having a strength acting on MR fluid . The magnetic field strength is dependent on the induced current i t the number of coils per length in the secondary solenoid coil n and the permeability constant in accordance with the following equation . 2 

The damping of damper increases in proportion to the viscosity of enclosed MR fluid and is also a function of the size and geometry of plunger head and the inner diameter of MR fluid damper . The viscosity of MR fluid and concomitantly the viscous damping of damper and isolation system increase in proportion to the magnetic field strength acting on MR fluid .

The amount of current i t induced by primary solenoid coil depends on the motion of magnet which in turn depends on its resonance frequency and the vertical motion of bottom fixture . Since system is entirely passive it is relatively simple and robust and can be used in a variety of applications where power from an external source is either limited or nonexistent.

In MR fluid damper primary solenoid coil magnet and adjustable spring are shown in parallel with suspension spring . Alternatively more than one spring similar to suspension spring and more than one MR fluid damper could be deployed between top fixture and bottom fixture and the foregoing elements could be deployed in combinations of parallel and series configurations depending on the mass of top fixture and the magnitude and frequency of the vibration of bottom fixture .

If a high frequency of vibration is expected rod could be comprised of two sections with each section being respectively attached to the ends of a stiff spring not shown to attenuate the low amplitude vibration that would otherwise be transmitted to top fixture .

For isolation systems of the type schematically shown in isolation of top fixture typically increases as the vibration frequency of bottom fixture increases above square root over 2 times the resonance frequency of the system comprised of suspension spring and top fixture which is defined as the square root of the ratio of the stiffness of suspension spring k to the mass of top fixture m.

The transmission ratio quantifies the reduction of the motion transmitted from bottom fixture to top fixture mathematically defined as 

If the damping provided by MR fluid damper for near for is larger than the 0.25 maximum shown in then the transmission ratio at resonance shown in would further decrease. Moreover referring to the damping ratio profile for MR fluid damper shown in if the relatively narrow frequency bandwidth shown by the solid line is replaced with the broad frequency bandwidth denoted by the dashed line the lobes on either side of would be reduced in magnitude. The system responses characterized by illustrate examples of elements that could be used in conjunction with the present invention and are presented to facilitate understanding they are not intended to limit or restrict the scope invention.

Damper is rigidly connected to bottom fixture by rigid rod and slideably connected to top fixture by plunger . Plunger is comprised of stem and head . Annular permanent magnets circumscribe MR fluid damper . Tubular magnetic shielding sleeve is open on both ends is comprised of magnetically impermeable material and shields the area of MR damper near plunger head from the magnetic field of magnets when system is at rest i.e. when top fixture and bottom fixture are at rest. The interposition of shielding sleeve reduces the strength of the magnetic field acting on MR fluid around the plunger head .

Shielding sleeve is suspended between top fixture and bottom fixture by springs which are attached respectively to top fixture and bottom fixture . Springs comprise means for oscillating shielding sleeve relative to damper . Springs have a total spring rate stiffness of k. The resonance frequency of shielding sleeve is determined by the square root of the ratio of the total spring stiffness k to the mass of shielding sleeve m as mathematically stated by the following equation 

When the top fixture or bottom fixture vertically vibrates upon being excited by an external source not shown shielding sleeve oscillates on springs . Suspension spring has a spring stiffness k. If the non vibrating fixture has a mass m then the system comprised of suspension spring and the non vibrating fixture will have a fundamental resonance of mathematically expressed as

By setting proximate to shielding sleeve will exhibit large displacements at resonance and allow MR fluid around plunger head to be exposed to a stronger magnetic field than when system is at rest. The varying magnetic field will increase the viscosity of MR fluid thus increasing the damping from interaction between MR fluid and plunger head as the non vibrating fixture vibrates at or near its resonance . Therefore system should provide the same isolation advantages as discussed in conjunction with system and graphically illustrated in . System however differs from system in that it uses permanent magnets and oscillating shielding sleeve rather than an induced electrical current to produce the varying magnetic field causing MR fluid to react and become more viscous near plunger head .

It is to be understood that the preceding is merely a detailed description of several embodiments of this invention and that numerous changes to the disclosed embodiments can be made in accordance with the disclosure herein without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. The preceding description therefore is not meant to limit the scope of the invention. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined only by the appended claims and their equivalents.

