---

title: System and method for controlling an emergency notification feature based on driver status
abstract: A system for controlling the operation of performing emergency notification in a vehicle is provided. The system comprises a controller configured to receive at least one driver status signal indicative of whether the driver is one of the primary driver and the secondary driver from a key ignition device positioned on at least one of a primary key and the secondary key. The controller is configured to determine whether the driver of the vehicle is one of the primary and the secondary driver based on the at least one driver status signal. The controller is configured to selectively control the operation of performing emergency notification based on whether the driver of the vehicle is one of the primary driver and the secondary driver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08467933&OS=08467933&RS=08467933
owner: Ford Global Technologies, LLC
number: 08467933
owner_city: Dearborn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080613
---
This application may generally relates relate to U.S. patent Ser. No. 12 026 582 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING A SAFETY RESTRAINT STATUS BASED ON DRIVER STATUS and filed on Feb. 6 2008 Ser. No. 12 026 857 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING EARLY LOW FUEL WARNING BASED ON DRIVER STATUS and filed on Feb. 6 2008 Ser. No. 12 026 867 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING ELECTRONIC STABILITY CONTROL BASED ON DRIVER STATUS and filed on Feb. 6 2008 Ser. No. 12 026 872 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING OBJECT DETECTION BASED ON DRIVER STATUS and filed on Feb. 6 2008 Ser. No. 12 139 070 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING AN BLIND SPOT MONITORING AND CROSS TRAFFIC ALERT BASED ON DRIVER STATUS and filed on Jun. 13 2008 and Ser. No. 12 138 976 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING AN OCCUPANT COMMUNICATION DEVICE BASED ON DRIVER STATUS and filed on Jun. 13 2008 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The embodiments of the present invention generally relate to a system and method for controlling an emergency notification feature based on driver status.

With conventional automotive vehicles one or more keys are often shared between any number of drivers. For example the parents of a teenager or young adult that is old enough to drive may share the keys for the vehicle with the teenager. The vehicle may be equipped with various safety and or driver notification features that may be enabled disabled via a user interface based on the driver s needs. However in some circumstances the parent may not intend to have the various safety and notification related features disabled by the teenager. The parent may enable the safety and notification features prior to allowing the teenager to drive the vehicle however there is no guarantee that the teenager may keep the safety and notification features enabled while driving the vehicle. Conventional vehicles fail to give parents or other such primary drivers the option of preventing teenagers eligible to driver or other such secondary drivers from disabling safety and notification features.

In at least one embodiment a system for controlling the operation of performing emergency notification in a vehicle is provided. The system comprises a controller configured to receive at least one driver status signal indicative of whether the driver is one of the primary driver and the secondary driver from a key ignition device positioned on at least one of a primary key and the secondary key. The controller is configured to determine whether the driver of the vehicle is one of the primary and the secondary driver based on the at least one driver status signal. The controller is configured to selectively control the operation of performing emergency notification based on whether the driver of the vehicle is one of the primary driver and the secondary driver.

The embodiments of the present invention generally provide for a driver identification functional operation whereby primary and secondary drivers are determined and various levels of control are granted to the driver based on whether the driver is the primary driver or the secondary driver. In general the primary driver may be defined as the administrative driver who has greater control over the functionality of the various safety and or notification features in the vehicle. The secondary driver may be defined as a restricted driver who has limited control over the safety and or notification features generally provided by the vehicle and is to abide by the functional restrictions imposed or selected by the vehicle or the primary driver. The embodiments of the present invention provides but are not limited to inhibiting a seatbelt restraint status disable inhibiting a forward collision warning FCW disable inhibiting an electronic stability control ESC disable inhibiting a traction control TC disable adjusting the operation of a low fluid level warning or low fuel level warning inhibiting touch entry input control disable for communication devices operably coupled to the vehicle and inhibiting emergency call operation disable in the event the vehicle is detected to be in an emergency state. The inhibiting and adjusting operations may be based on the status of the driver.

The embodiments of the present invention as set forth in generally illustrate and describe a plurality of controllers or modules or other such electrically based components. All references to the various controllers and electrically based components and the functionality provided for each are not intended to be limited to encompassing only what is illustrated and described herein. While particular labels may be assigned to the various controllers and or electrical components disclosed such labels are not intended to limit the scope of operation for the controllers and or the electrical components. The controllers may be combined with each other and or separated in any manner based on the particular type of electrical architecture that is desired or intended to be implemented in the vehicle.

The cluster also includes a plurality of message center switches and chimes . The driver may toggle the message center switches to view different messages and or respond to various prompts directed to the driver by the vehicle. The chimes may audibly notify the driver when predetermined vehicle conditions have been met. In one example the cluster may activate the chimes when the vehicle is near a top speed the vehicle has achieved a top speed the vehicle has exceeded the top speed there is a low level of fuel in the fuel tank and or when the TC is enabled.

The cluster includes a passive anti theft security PATS controller . While generally illustrates that the PATS controller is positioned within the cluster other implementations may include the PATS controller being implemented as a standalone controller and positioned external to the cluster . A smart power distribution junction box SPDJB controller may be operably coupled to the cluster . The cluster and the SPDJB controller may communicate with each via a multiplexed bus. In general all of the signals transmitted to from the cluster may be transmitted via the multiplexed bus. The multiplexed bus may be implemented as a High Medium Speed Controller Area Network CAN bus a Local Interconnect Network LIN bus or any other type of multiplexed data bus generally situated to facilitate data transfer therethrough. The particular type of multiplexed bus used may be varied to meet the desired criteria of a particular implementation. The SPDJB controller may include a plurality of fuses relays and various micro controllers for performing any number of functions related to the operation of interior and or exterior electrically based functionality of the vehicle. Such functions may include but are not limited to electronic unlocking locking via interior door lock unlock switches remote keyless entry operation vehicle lighting interior and or exterior electronic power windows and or key ignition status e.g. Off Run Start Accessory ACCY .

An ignition switch may be operably coupled to the SPDJB controller . The SPDJB controller may receive hardwired signals indicative of the position of the ignition switch and transmit multiplexed messages on the multiplexed bus that are indicative of the position of the ignition switch. For example the SPDJB controller may transmit a signal IGN SW STS over the multiplexed bus to the cluster . The SPDJB controller may transmit the signal IGN SW STS to any controller coupled to the multiplexed bus that may need key ignition status as an input to perform a particular function.

The ignition switch may receive one or more keys . The keys may be tagged or associated with the primary driver and the secondary driver of the vehicle. The key includes an ignition key device embedded therein for communicating with the vehicle. The ignition key device comprises a transponder not shown having an integrated circuit and an antenna. The transponder is adapted to transmit an electronic code as a signal DRIVER STATUS to the PATS controller . The signal DRIVER STATUS may be indicative of which driver e.g. primary or secondary is driving the vehicle. The signal DRIVER STATUS may be in the form of radio frequency RF based signal or a radio frequency identification RFID tag which corresponds to hexadecimal based data. The PATS controller determines if the hex data in the RFID tag matches predetermined hex data stored therein e.g. in a look up table of the PATS controller prior to allowing the vehicle to start for anti theft purposes. In the event the RFID tag matches the predetermined hex data a powertrain control module or engine controller operably coupled to the PATS controller allows the vehicle to start the engine. In general the vehicle assembly plant supplier facility e.g. manufacturer of the keys and or PATS controller or car dealership performs the operation of learning the RFID tag of the keys to the vehicle prior to delivery the vehicle to the end user.

The PATS controller may also use the signal DRIVER STATUS for purposes of identifying whether the driver of the vehicle is the primary driver or the secondary driver. For example the PATS controller may transmit a signal DRIVER STATUS  to indicate whether the particular driver is the primary driver or the secondary driver to various vehicle controllers or modules as either multiplexed message data or hardwired signals. Prior to the PATS controller transmitting the signal DRIVER STATUS  the primary and secondary keys must be learned to the PATS controller .

The system may employ different operations for associating the keys to the primary and secondary drivers. In one implementation the PATS controller may employ a sequential based operation for associating the keys to the primary and secondary drivers. For example during the learn operation whereby the RFID tag for a particular key is learned to the vehicle to support the passive anti theft function the PATS controller may assign priority status to the first key learned which in essence tags the first key as the primary key. The RFID tag of the first key learned to the vehicle may be assigned a higher status than the second key. The RFID tag of the second key when learned to the vehicle may be designated by the PATS controller as the secondary key. The particular order with respect to when a key is assigned primary or secondary status may be varied to meet the designed criteria of a particular implementation. In addition any number of spare keys may be tagged as being either primary or secondary. For example any number of replacement or spare keys may be learned to the vehicle and designated as either a primary or a secondary key. After the PATS controller tags the keys as either primary or secondary keys the PATS controller sends the signal DRIVER STATUS  over the bus to indicate whether the driver of the vehicle is the primary or secondary driver. The tag operation may be performed simultaneously with the process of learning the keys to the PATS controller for passive anti theft purposes.

In another implementation the PATS controller may add additional data to the RFID tag to correspond to whether the driver of the vehicle is the primary or the secondary driver. The RFID tag may include a byte which includes predetermined hex values that corresponds to whether the driver of the vehicle is the primary or secondary driver. For example the byte may include the value FE which corresponds to the primary driver. The PATS controller upon receiving the RFID tag with the FE value may recognize the particular key as a primary key and determine that the status of the driver is the primary driver. The byte may also include the value FF in the place of FE which corresponds to the secondary driver. The PATS controller upon receiving the RFID tag with the value FF may recognize the particular key as a secondary key and determine that the status of the driver is the secondary driver. It should be noted that the hex bytes FE and FF are used for illustrative purposes. The particular type of hex data and the length of data used to correspond to the primary and secondary drivers may vary based on the desired criteria of a particular implementation.

In yet another implementation the primary driver may program one or more keys as a secondary key and or change status of the secondary key back to a primary key as disclosed in co pending U.S. patent Ser. No. 12 139 005 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROGRAMMING KEYS TO ESTABLISH PRIMARY AND SECONDARY DRIVERS and filed on Jun. 13 2008 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

A restraint control module RCM may be operably coupled to the cluster via the multiplexed bus. The RCM may deploy various safety restraint systems in response to the vehicle experiencing impact with an object. For example the restraint control module may deploy one or more airbags positioned about the vehicle motorized pretensioners and or seat controls to reduce the risk of injury to vehicle occupants in the event the vehicle experiences an impact. The RCM may transmit a signal EMERGENCY in response to an airbag being deployed in the vehicle. In another example the RCM may transmit the signal EMERGENCY in response to a signal transmitted by a fuel cutoff switch or inertia switch which may indicate the presence of a collision. Such conditions are generally illustrative of the vehicle being in an emergency state.

A seatbelt status controller may be operably coupled to the restraints control module . While generally illustrates that the seatbelt status controller is positioned within the RCM additional configurations may include positioning the seatbelt status controller out of the RCM . The seatbelt status controller is generally adapted to notify the driver that one or more seatbelts in the vehicle have not been fastened or are in an unbuckled state. The seatbelt status operation controller is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 278 358 to Spoto et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 362 734 to McQuade et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 501 374 to King et al. which are assigned to the assignee of the present invention and are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

A driver s buckle switch is coupled to the seatbelt status controller and generally presents data indicative of whether the driver s seatbelt is fastened to the driver. A passenger buckle switch is also coupled to the seatbelt status controller and generally presents data indicative of whether the passenger s seatbelt is fastened. An occupant classification system may be optionally coupled to the seatbelt status controller for providing information with respect to the position of the occupants in the vehicle. The seatbelt status controller may use such information provided by the occupant classification system to determine which seat is occupied by an occupant. Based on vehicle occupant location the seatbelt status controller may have knowledge with respect to which seatbelts may need to be monitored by the seatbelt status controller .

In general the seatbelt status controller is generally adapted to audibly and visually notify the occupant in the vehicle that one or more of the seatbelts are not fastened when the ignition is in the run position and the vehicle speed is above a predetermined speed threshold. In addition the seatbelt status controller may be deactivated if at any time the seatbelt is fastened or buckled or after the seatbelt status controller has audibly and visually notified the occupant for a predetermined amount of time e.g. five minutes . The seatbelt status controller includes a chime not shown for audibly notifying the driver in the event one or more of the seatbelts are not fastened the vehicle speed has reached and or exceeded the predetermined vehicle speed threshold and the position of the ignition switch is in run. The seatbelt status controller may transmit a signal BLT STS over the multiplexed bus to the cluster so that the cluster visually notifies the driver via the message center display or with a telltale indicator that one or more of the seatbelts are not fastened or buckled . The telltale is generally defined as a indicator positioned in the cluster which includes a symbol e.g. engine seatbelt low fuel etc. positioned thereon and configured to illuminate when predetermined conditions related to each of the engine seatbelt and low fuel have been met. The signal BLT STS generally corresponds to a restraint status signal in which one or more of the seatbelts may be unfastened or in an unbuckled state and the vehicle speed and the ignition status conditions have been met. In one example the seatbelt status controller may transmit an intermittent chime at 240 rep min at a frequency of 740 Hz. The number or repetitions per minute and the frequency of the chime may vary based on the desired characteristics of a particular implementation.

The cluster transmits the signal IGN SW STS to the seatbelt status controller so that the seatbelt status controller may assess the status of the ignition switch e.g. OFF RUN ACCY or START . An audio control module ACM may be operably coupled to the cluster via the multiplexed bus. The ACM is adapted to generate audible signals for entertainment purposes. The ACM may also be adapted to amplify voice commands in the event a cell phone is coupled to the ACM . In addition the ACM may be used in combination with a voice recognition session. The ACM ceases to generate audible signals in response to the seatbelt status controller determining that one or more seatbelts are not fastened and the vehicle speed and ignition status conditions are met. The ACM performs the mute operation in response to receiving the signal BLT STATUS. The ACM may not be in a muted state when used to facilitate a cell phone conversation or when used in connection with a voice recognition session in the event the seatbelts are disabled and the applicable vehicle criteria is met.

Conventional vehicles generally provide drivers with the ability to enable or disable the seatbelt status controller in order to turn off on the controller as desired by the driver. By disabling the controller the controller may cease to audibly notify the driver and cease to transmit the signal BLT STATUS to the cluster for visually notifying the driver that the seatbelts are in unbuckled state. The system provides the primary driver with the option of selectively enabling disabling the operation of the controller however the system may prevent the secondary driver from disabling the operation of the seatbelt status controller . The controller receives the signal DRIVER STATUS  to determine whether the driver is the primary driver or the secondary driver. The seatbelt status controller is generally configured ON and provides audible notification and the cluster is configured to visually present the safety belt unfastened message when the applicable vehicle criteria is met and in response to determining that the secondary driver is driving the vehicle. The functionality performed by the seatbelt status controller may be incorporated into the cluster or the SPDJB .

In one example the cluster may visually present the option of enabling disabling the seatbelt status option via the message center display and allow the primary driver to select a corresponding option via the message center switches . In such an example the cluster may transmit a control signal not shown to the seatbelt status controller to enable disable the seatbelt status operation. The cluster on the other hand may not visually present such an option to the secondary driver in response to detecting that the driver of the vehicle is the secondary driver. In the event the driver of the vehicle is the secondary driver the ACM is muted in response to determining that the secondary driver is not fastened with a seatbelt and the applicable vehicle criteria is met. The muted characteristic of the ACM may not be enabled disabled by the secondary driver.

A forward collision warning FCW module may be operably coupled to the cluster and receive the signal DRIVER STATUS  from the cluster . The FCW module may be a portion of an active sensing system that is adapted to determine if the vehicle is in a state in which a frontal collision may be imminent. In such a case the FCW module may transmit a signal FCW to the cluster in the event a forward collision is imminent. The FCW system generally includes a heads up display HUD which includes a bank of LEDs. The bank of LEDs are disposed about the windshield of the vehicle. The FCW module is operably coupled to a radar system not shown . The radar system detects the position of the object with respect to the vehicle. In the event an imminent collision is detected by the radar system the radar system transmits a control signal not shown to the FCW module . The FCW module illuminates the bank of LEDs to notify the occupants that a collision may be imminent. The FCW module generally allows the driver to enable disable the chime and or the visual indicators as well as to adjust a particular sensitivity level.

The cluster may also audibly and visually notify via the message center display or telltale and the chimes the driver of the collision when the collision is imminent. An FCW switch may be coupled to the FCW module to enable disable the FCW module and control vehicle sensitivity. In addition the FCW feature may be enabled disabled by the primary driver via the message center switches in the cluster . In such an example the cluster may transmit a control signal not shown to the FCW module to enable disable the FCW feature. The primary driver is generally permitted to enable disable the chime and or visual indicator and adjust the sensitivity level of the FCW system. The secondary driver is prohibited from disabling the FCW feature in the event the secondary driver is detected to be the driver of the vehicle. For example the cluster may not present the enable disable prompt to the secondary driver via the cluster to allow the secondary driver to disable FCW. The cluster is configured to allow the secondary driver to adjust vehicle sensitivity for determining the particular moment in which the FCW warning is to be issued. The secondary driver may increase decrease sensitivity to trigger the FCW earlier later based on the selected sensitivity level. The secondary driver is prohibited from enabling disabling the visual and or audible warning mechanism of the FCW.

A fuel level sensor may be operably coupled to the cluster for transmitting information with respect to the amount of fuel or the fuel level in the fuel tank of the vehicle. The cluster may visually present a low fuel warning via the message center display or with a telltale not shown . The cluster is adapted to calculate the amount of fuel based on the fuel level information provided by the fuel level sensor . In one example the cluster is generally adapted to present the low fuel warning when the fuel level is less than or equal to a standard Distance To Empty DTE . The DTE is defined as the distance in miles or kilometers from the moment to when the fuel tank may be empty. The DTE value may be varied based on who the particular driver e.g. primary or secondary of the vehicle is. In one example the standard DTE for the primary driver may be in a range of between one to sixty miles from the moment in which the fuel tank may be empty.

The strategy for triggering the low fuel warning may be altered in the event the cluster determines that the vehicle is being driven by the secondary driver. For example the low fuel warning may be issued when the fuel level is less than or equal to the standard DTE multiplied by a predetermined value. In one example the predetermined value may be set to one and a half while the DTE is at fifty miles. In such a case the cluster may issue the low fuel warning earlier e.g. at seventy five miles before the fuel tank is empty when compared to the point in which the low fuel warning is issued for the primary driver. In general the system is adapted to provide for the low fuel warning at an earlier point in time when the driver of the vehicle is detected to be the secondary driver. It should be noted that the low fuel level strategy may be implemented for any type of low fluid warning detection configuration in the vehicle. Such a low fluid warning detection configuration may apply to windshield wiper fluid oil and or transmission fluid.

An ESC module may be operably coupled to the cluster . The ESC module is adapted to control the operation of various electronic stability control ESC systems such as traction control TC yaw stability control YSC and rollover stability control RSC . The ESC module may include a TC controller not shown a YSC controller not shown and a RSC controller not shown . The TC controller generally reduces power to drive wheels of the vehicle in order to minimize wheel spin and maximize traction. The YSC controller generally controls the vehicle s motion of rotation about a vertical axis. The RSC controller generally controls the motion of the vehicle by selectively applying brakes and controlling the speed of the vehicle to prevent the vehicle from rolling over.

An ESC control switch may be operably coupled directly to the ESC module or directly to the cluster . The ESC control switch generally allows the driver the ability to enable disable the one or more ESC operations in the event one or more of the ESC operations are not needed. For example the ESC control switch may allow the driver the ability to disable the traction control system due to various road conditions such as snow dirt ice etc. The ESC module is configured to present a signal ESC STATUS to the cluster so that the cluster can display the current state of ESC systems e.g. TC YSC and RSC . In the event the ESC control switch is coupled to the cluster the cluster transmits a signal ESC CONTROL to the ESC module to enable disable the ESC operations. The message center switch may also be used by the driver to enable disable the ESC operation without the need for the ESC switch . In such a case the cluster transmits the signal ESC CONTROL to the ESC module to enable disable the ESC operation.

The ESC module is adapted to receive the signal DRIVER STATUS from the cluster to determine if the driver of the vehicle is the primary or the secondary driver. The ESC module is configured to prevent the secondary driver from disabling any one or more of the ESC operations. For example the primary driver may desire to prevent the secondary driver from disabling the traction control operation for safety reasons. Such a condition may prevent the secondary driver from spinning or burning the tires and or drifting when the traction control is disabled. In the event the driver of the vehicle is the secondary driver the cluster may not present a message in the message center display to the secondary driver to allow the secondary driver to disable the ESC operations. In the event the secondary driver attempts to disable any one or more of the ESC features the cluster may display an ESC driver status message.

The primary driver may allow the secondary driver to enable disable the operation of the traction control in the event it may be likely that the secondary driver may experience road conditions that may require disabling traction control. For example due to various weather conditions or road conditions the primary driver may configure the ESC module via the cluster to allow the secondary driver to disable the traction control. For example the message center display may provide for an inhibit traction control message which allows the primary driver the option of either allowing the secondary driver the ability to enable disable traction control or to inhibit enabling disabling the traction control.

In the event the primary driver intends to allow the secondary driver to enable disable the traction control the primary driver may simply choose not to select the inhibit traction control option with the message center switches . No action is required by the primary driver in this case. In the event the primary driver intends to inhibit the traction control disable feature for the secondary driver e.g. prevent the secondary driver from either enabling disabling the traction control feature the primary driver may select the inhibit feature via the message control switches thereby precluding the secondary driver from enabling disabling the traction control feature. The cluster may transmit the signal ESC CONTROL to the ESC module e.g. if the ESC control switch is coupled to the cluster which is indicative of whether the secondary driver can enable disable the one or more ESC operations or whether the secondary driver is precluded from enabling disabling the traction feature.

A parking aid module may be operably coupled to the cluster . The parking aid module is adapted to provide a warning to the driver in the event the front or rear portions of the vehicle comes too close to an object while the vehicle is being parked. In one example a park aid switch may be coupled to the parking aid module and enable disable the park aid feature. In another example the driver may use the message center switches to enable disable the park aid feature. In another implementation the parking aid module may be integrated into an auto park module . The auto park module may be coupled to cluster . The auto park module is generally configured to automatically park the vehicle for the driver. For example in a parallel parking situation the driver may give control over the vehicle to the auto park module and allow the vehicle to park itself. An auto park switch is coupled to the auto park module for controlling the operation of the auto park switch .

The operation of the park aid feature may be enabled disabled based on the status of the driver. The primary driver is free to enable disable the operation of the park aid feature as desired. The primary driver may prevent the secondary driver from disabling the park aid feature. The parking aid module is adapted to receive the signal DRIVER STATUS  from the cluster to determine if the driver of the vehicle is the primary or the secondary driver. In the event the driver of the vehicle is determined to be the primary driver the cluster may allow the primary driver to enable disable the park aid operation via the park aid switch . In one example the primary driver may view the enable disable park aid option via the message center display and select the enable disable option via the message center switches . In such an example the cluster may transmit a control signal not shown to the parking aid module to enable disable the park aid feature.

In the event the driver is the secondary driver the cluster inhibits the park aid disable option and prevents the secondary driver from viewing the enable disable park aid option in the message center display . In the auto park module implementation the cluster may be adapted to transmit the signal DRIVER STATUS  to the auto park module to determine whether the driver is the primary or the secondary driver.

A powertrain control module PCM is operably coupled to the cluster . The PCM is generally configured to transmit a signal VEH SPEED which corresponds to the speed of the vehicle. The PCM may directly compute the vehicle speed for the vehicle or may receive the vehicle speed from an anti locking brake module or other braking module not shown . Likewise the cluster may optionally receive the signal VEH SPEED directly from the braking module.

An auxiliary protocol interface module APIM is operably coupled to the cluster . The APIM is configured to receive an occupant communication device OCD . The APIM is generally part of an in vehicle communication system which allows vehicle occupants to control and or enter data into the OCD via touch input and or voice input while the occupant communication device is coupled to the vehicle via port s not shown on the APIM . In one example the APIM may be implemented as part of the SYNC system developed by Ford Motor Company and Microsoft which is known in the art. The OCD may include any number of communication devices that use a wireless protocol. For example such a wireless protocol may include Bluetooth or other suitable format. In general the OCD may use any protocol that is generally situated to facilitate wireless communication. The OCD may include a phone a text messaging device a music generating device such as a phone that plays MP3 songs whereby all of such items use the Bluetooth protocol to communicate. In yet another example the OCD may include other such devices such as Universal Serial Bus USB based music playback devices e.g. Zune and iPod by Apple . In yet another example the occupant communication device may include a link that is hardwired coupled into a line in input provided on the APIM . Such a link may receive an input from music playback device to transmit audio via speakers in the vehicle.

In general the APIM may receive any mobile communication device or digital media player and allow the vehicle occupant to operate such devices via voice input and or touch input. Switches buttons positioned on the APIM the OCDs the vehicle s steering wheel or through radio controls on the ACM may be used to facilitate touch input. In the event the OCD comprises a wireless protocol based text messaging device that is coupled to the APIM the vehicle occupant may be presented with a listing of preselected text messages from the APIM for the occupant to select via touch input and or voice input to transmit the selected text to another user.

In general the APIM is generally configured to control the manner in which data is entered or how to control the OCD while such an OCD is coupled to the APIM based on driver status. For example in the event the APIM receives the signal DRIVER STATUS  and the signal corresponds to the driver being the secondary driver the APIM may disable touch input and only allow the occupant to enter data or control the OCD via voice input e.g. in the hands free operation mode . The APIM may recognize any number of voice inputs to control the OCDs to perform a particular function e.g. place phone call dial a particular number adjust volume turn on off OCD or any other such foreseeable operation generally performed by the particular OCD . In addition an occupant may enter data e.g. the actual phone number or actual text as a voice input followed by a command to dial the number via voice input.

Other such inputs may be sent to the APIM to provide additional levels of control to control and to enter data in the event the driver of the vehicle is the secondary driver. For example the APIM may receive the signal VEH SPEED and disable touch input for the OCD and only allow voice input to control and or enter data into the OCD in response to determining that the vehicle speed is greater than zero KPH and that the driver of the vehicle is the secondary driver.

In the event the signal DRIVER STATUS  corresponds to the driver being the primary driver the driver in this case may either control and or enter data into the OCD via voice input and or touch input with the APIM . In the event the driver intends to control the OCDs via touch input the driver may simply press buttons switches directly on the OCD or buttons switches on the APIM while the particular OCD is coupled to the APIM . In the event the driver intends to control the OCDs via voice input the APIM may interpret the voice input and enter data into the OCD or control the OCD in the manner specified by the voice input. The primary driver is capable of enabling disabling the manual touch input to control and or enter data into the OCD via the cluster . For example in the event the cluster determines that the driver of the vehicle is the primary driver via the signal DRIVER STATUS the cluster may allow the primary driver via menus displayed thereon to enable disable the manual touch input for the secondary driver to control the OCDs .

In the event the primary driver enables the touch input for the secondary driver via menu selections e.g. via audio input touch selection of switches or touch screen selection the cluster transmits a signal ADMIN OPTION to the APIM . The APIM enables manual touch input operation for the secondary driver so that the secondary driver is to control and enter data into the OCDs through the APIM via touch input or voice input in response to the signal ADMIN OPTION indicating that the touch input operation is enabled. The cluster may not allow the secondary driver to enable disable the hands free operation mode. The primary driver is given the authority to enable disable such a feature.

In the event the primary driver disables the touch input operation for the secondary driver the cluster transmits the signal ADMIN OPTION with data thereon indicating that the touch input operation is disabled to the APIM . The APIM disables the touch input operation for the secondary driver so that the secondary driver is capable of controlling the OCDs or entering data into the OCD through the APIM via voice input in response to the signal ADMIN OPTION indicating that the feature is disabled.

The APIM may be used in conjunction with the OCD to perform emergency notification in the event the vehicle experiences an accident in which it is necessary to notify emergency personnel that the vehicle is in an emergency state. For example the cluster may receive the signal EMERGENCY which is indicative of the vehicle being in an emergency state. In such an example the RCM may deploy one or more airbags during an accident and send a message on the signal EMERGENCY to the cluster . The cluster transmits the signal EMERGENCY to the APIM so that the APIM controls the OCDs to place a call to emergency personnel. In yet another example the RCM may transmit the signal EMERGENCY directly to the APIM . In either case the RCM continually sends the signal EMERGENCY to the APIM until the APIM transmits a response signal indicating receipt of the signal EMERGENCY. It is generally contemplated that the OCD comprise a mobile phone or text messaging device that is electrically coupled to the APIM in such an instance so that the call can be made. In the event a vehicle emergency takes place the APIM may prompt the driver of the vehicle whether the driver would like to contact emergency personnel. In the event no response is provided within a predetermined period of time the APIM may control the OCD to place the call.

An in vehicle communication device IVCD is coupled to the APIM and may be controlled by the AIPM to place a call with emergency personnel in the event a phone is not coupled to the APIM . The IVCD may comprise a mobile phone that is stowed interior to the vehicle and is generally not accessible to an occupant. It is generally contemplated that the IVCD may be implemented as any device that is generally situated to facilitate communication to a party exterior to the vehicle. The APIM may first attempt to place a call with the OCD in the event the APIM detects that a call was not able to be placed through the OCD e.g. OCD may be a music play device and is not generally configured to facilitate communication with a party located outside of the vehicle within a predetermined amount of time e.g. 30 seconds or other suitable time the APIM may then control the IVCD to place the call with emergency personnel.

The emergency notification feature is a feature that may be enabled disabled by the primary driver. In the event the driver is the secondary driver the emergency notification feature is enabled and the secondary driver is prevented from disabling the feature. In general when the primary driver configures an OCD e.g. mobile phone or other such communication device the APIM presents a plurality of setup inquires to establish user preferences between the APIM and the OCD in a manner desired by the primary driver. The preference created by the primary driver with a particular OCD may also apply to other such consecutive OCDs that are coupled to the APIM . The APIM stores the responses provided by the primary driver in response to the setup inquires so that every time the same OCD is received on the APIM the APIM defaults to the preferences created by the primary driver. In one example with respect to establishing a user preference for the primary driver the APIM may prompt the primary driver as to whether it is desired to turn on off the emergency notification feature. In the event the primary driver turns off the emergency notification feature as a preference such a feature will be disabled for all consecutive OCDs operably coupled to the APIM thereafter. Further in the event the primary driver enables the emergency notification feature such a feature may remain enabled for all consecutive OCDs operably coupled to the APIM thereafter.

The primary driver may enable disable emergency notification feature for the secondary driver via the cluster . For example in the event the cluster determines that the driver of the vehicle is the primary driver via the signal DRIVER STATUS the cluster may allow the primary driver via menus displayed thereon to enable disable the emergency notification feature for the secondary feature. In the event the primary driver enables the emergency notification feature for the secondary driver via menu selections e.g. audio input touch selection of switches or touch screen selection the cluster transmits the signal ADMIN OPTION to the APIM . The APIM enables the emergency notification feature for the secondary driver in response to the signal ADMIN OPTION indicating that the feature is enabled. The secondary driver may not disable the emergency notification feature after the feature has been enabled by the primary driver.

In the event the primary driver disables the emergency notification feature for the secondary driver the cluster transmits the signal ADMIN OPTION to the APIM . The APIM disables the emergency notification feature for the secondary driver in response to the signal ADMIN OPTION indicating that the emergency notification feature is disabled. The secondary driver may enable the emergency notification feature even if the primary driver has disabled such a feature for the secondary driver. The enabling disabling of the emergency notification feature will be discussed in more detail in connection with .

In general the PEPS function is a keyless access and start system. The driver may carry one or more keys that may be in the form of an electronic transmission device. The keys each include the ignition key device embedded within for communicating with the PEPS controller . The transponder of the ignition key device is adapted to send the RFID tags as the signal DRIVER STATUS to the PEPS controller . To gain access or entry into the vehicle with the keys in the PEPS implementation the driver may need to wake up the PEPS controller to establish bi directional communication between the keys and the PEPS controller . In one example such a wake up may occur by requiring the driver to touch and or pull the door handle of the vehicle. In response to the door handle being toggled or touched the PEPS controller may wake up and transmit RF based signals to the keys. The PEPS controller and the keys may undergo a series of communications back and forth to each other e.g. handshaking for vehicle access authentication purposes. The PEPS controller may unlock the doors in response to a successful completion of the handshaking process. Once the driver is in the vehicle the driver may simply press a button positioned on an instrument panel to start the vehicle.

In one example the system may be adapted to tag or associate the keys as either a primary or a secondary key during a learn operation as discussed with the PATS controller . In yet another example the system may be configured to associate the keys as primary or secondary keys in the manner identified and disclosed in U.S. patent Ser. No. 12 139 005 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROGRAMMING KEYS TO ESTABLISH PRIMARY AND SECONDARY DRIVERS and filed on Jun. 13 2008 as noted above. As noted in connection with while learning the keys to the vehicle during vehicle assembly or during repair the keys may be tagged as a primary key or a secondary key based on the sequential order in which the keys are learned to the vehicle. For example the PEPS controller may assign the first key that is learned to the vehicle as the primary key and the second key that is learned to the vehicle as the secondary key. During vehicle startup the keys each transmit a corresponding RFID tag having hexidecimal based data on the signal DRIVER STATUS to the PEPS controller . The PEPS controller may compare the hex data in the RFID tag to predetermined hex data in a lookup table of the PATS controller to determine if a match occurs. If a match occurs the PEPS controller may allow the engine to start in the event the driver intends to start the vehicle.

In addition to the learn operation as discussed immediately above the system may tag or associate the keys by providing predetermined hex data in the RFID tag which corresponds to whether the key is a primary key or a secondary key as noted in connection with the PATS controller . The PEPS controller receives the predetermined hex in the RFID tag and determines whether the key is a primary or a secondary key based on the predetermined hex data in the RFID tag.

Any number of additional keys may be tagged as either the primary or secondary key. For example a plurality of replacement or spare keys may be learned to the vehicle and designated as either a primary or a secondary key. The PEPS controller is adapted to provide the signal DRIVER STATUS  to the various controllers over the multiplexed bus. The signal DRIVER STATUS  corresponds to whether the driver is the primary driver or the secondary driver. The PEPS controller may also transmit the signal IGN SW STS to the cluster . The PEPS controller determines that the key ignition status is in the run position in response to the driver toggling the brake pedal and depressing the start switch. In such a case the vehicle is started and the PEPS controller transmits the signal IGN SW STS as being in the run state. In the event the driver selects only the start button the PEPS controller transmits the signal IGN SW STS as being in the accessory state.

The PATS controller may be positioned within the BCM . While generally illustrates that the PATS controller is positioned within the BCM the PATS controller may be positioned in the cluster or any other controller or module shown in . In addition the PATS controller may be implemented as a standalone unit. The particular placement of the PATS controller may be varied to meet the design criteria of a particular implementation. The PATS controller may be coupled directly to the ignition switch . The BCM may transmit the signal IGN SW STS to the cluster via the multiplexed bus. The BCM may transmit and receive all signals as illustrated in via the multiplexed bus. Additionally the cluster may transmit and receive all signals as illustrated in via the multiplexed bus. The BCM may be adapted to transmit the signal DRIVER STATUS  to the cluster the restraint control module the seatbelt status controller the audio control module the ESC module the parking aid module the auto park module and or the APIM . The cluster inhibits FCW disable the park aid disable ESC disable voice input disable and emergency notification disable and provides for the early low fuel warning in response to the signal DRIVER STATUS  indicating that the secondary driver is driving the vehicle. The seatbelt status controller may inhibit the seatbelt status operation and prevent the secondary driver from disabling the operation in the event the secondary driver is determined to be the driver of the vehicle.

The BCM may provide the signal DRIVER STATUS  to the SDM . In the event the signal DRIVER STATUS  corresponds to the primary driver the cluster and or the SDM may allow the primary driver to enable disable ESC FCW parking aid voice input for the OCD and the emergency notification feature. The cluster may use the signal DRIVER STATUS  to maintain the normal low fuel warning strategy in the event the signal DRIVER STATUS  corresponds to the primary driver. In the event the signal DRIVER STATUS  corresponds to the secondary driver the SDM may not allow the secondary driver to modify or change the seatbelt status disable TC disable ESC disable FCW disable voice input disable emergency notification disable and park aid disable. The cluster may change the strategy with respect to issuing the low fuel warning strategy at an earlier point in time if the signal DRIVER STATUS corresponds to the secondary driver.

The PEPS controller may determine the driver status in response to the signal DRIVER STATUS transmitted from the ignition key device and transmit the signal DRIVER STATUS  to the BCM . The BCM transmits the signal DRIVER STATUS  to the SDM . The SDM and or the cluster may allow the primary driver to enable disable ESC FCW voice input for the OCD emergency notification and parking aid feature. The cluster may use the DRIVER STATUS  to maintain the normal low fuel warning strategy in the event the signal DRIVER STATUS  corresponds to the primary driver. In the event the signal DRIVER STATUS  corresponds to the secondary driver the SDM may not allow the secondary driver to inhibit the seatbelt status disable ESC disable FCW disable voice input disable emergency notification feature and park aid disable. In addition the cluster may change the strategy with respect to issuing the low fuel warning strategy at an earlier point in time if the signal DRIVER STATUS corresponds to the secondary driver.

While generally illustrate that the cluster transmits the signals EMERGENCY and or DRIVER STATUS  to the APIM it is generally contemplated that the BCM may transmit one or more of the signals directly to the APIM instead of the cluster .

In block the keys are monitored to determine if the keys were programmed. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller is adapted to determine if the keys are properly programmed so that the vehicle can be started. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller is also adapted to determine if the keys correspond to either the primary or secondary driver. In the event the keys are not properly programmed to start the vehicle then the method moves to block . In the event the keys are properly programmed to start the vehicle then the method moves to block .

In block an error is detected. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller determines an error and may not allow the driver to start the vehicle.

In block a vehicle start is monitored. For the systems and the SPDJB or the BCM determines whether the ignition switch is in the start position. For systems and the PEPS controller determines whether the vehicle is started. If the vehicle is started then the method moves to block . If the vehicle has not been started then the method moves back to block .

In block the cluster determines if the key was programmed as a primary key for the primary driver or if the key was programmed as a secondary key for the secondary driver. If the key is determined to be a primary key then the method moves to block . If the key is determined to be a secondary key then the method moves to block . In the event the key is not programmed as a primary or secondary key the method moves to block .

In block the vehicle resumes standard vehicle function and no display regarding driver status is presented to the driver.

In block a driver status message is presented to the driver. For systems and the message center display of the cluster displays the driver status message to the primary or secondary drivers. For systems and the SDM displays the driver status startup message to the primary or secondary drivers. In general the driver status message may be useful in the situation whereby the primary driver accidentally uses the secondary key to start the vehicle. In such an example a driver status message may be presented thereby notifying the primary driver that the vehicle may have limited override capability with respect to enabling and disabling the vehicle features of the vehicle.

In block the keys are monitored to determine if the keys were programmed to start the vehicle. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller is adapted to determine if the keys are valid for starting the vehicle. In the event the keys are not programmed or valid to start the vehicle the method moves to block . In the event keys are properly programmed the method moves to block .

In block an error is detected. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller determines an error and may not allow the driver to start the vehicle in the event the keys are not properly programmed to the vehicle.

In block the cluster determines if the key is a primary key for the primary driver or if the key is a secondary key for the secondary driver. If the key is determined to be a primary key then the method moves to block . If the key is determined to be the secondary key then the method moves to block . If the key is not associated with a primary or a secondary driver then the method moves to the block .

In block the primary driver may resume normal operation of the OCDs . For example the APIM may allow the primary driver to control and or enter data into the OCD via touch and or voice input. With normal operation the primary driver may command a phone text messaging device iPod or any other device by directly touching one or more switches buttons on any one of the aforementioned devices to perform a particular task while the device is coupled to the APIM e.g. place a call turn device on off send text message adjust volume skip tracks etc. . The primary driver may directly enter text and or numerals into the phone or text messaging device via touch input. In addition the primary driver may command and or enter data into such devices with voice input via the APIM . The primary driver may also command the aforementioned devices to perform a particular task or enter text and or numerals via voice input.

In block the APIM determines the type of OCD that is electrically coupled therewith or mounted thereon. For example the APIM determines whether the OCD corresponds to phone text messaging device or a music playback device e.g. that uses USB protocol or similar protocol or a music playback device that is implemented on the phone as an MP3 player . Such devices are capable of receiving voice input to perform a predetermined operation and or to receive data to transmit. The APIM determines whether the OCD corresponds to a line in input or link. A device generally coupled to the link may not be capable of being controlled via voice input.

In the event the APIM determines that the OCD corresponds to a device that is capable of receiving voice input the method moves to block . In the event the APIM determines that the OCD does not correspond to a device that is capable of receiving voice input the method moves to block .

In block the APIM determines whether the primary driver has disabled touch input to control and or enter data into the OCD in the event the driver of the vehicle is detected to be the secondary driver. If the primary driver has not disabled touch input to control and or enter data into the OCD the method moves to block . If the primary driver has disabled touch input e.g. voice input only allowed for secondary driver the method moves to block .

In block the APIM allows the secondary driver to control and or enter data into the OCD via touch input e.g. directly through the OCD and or voice input e.g. through the APIM .

In block the APIM receives the signal VEH SPEED to determine the speed at which the vehicle is traveling.

In block the APIM determines whether the speed of the vehicle is above zero KPH or some other suitable speed . In the event the vehicle speed is equal to zero KPH the method moves to block . In the event the vehicle speed is greater than zero KPH the method moves to block .

In block the APIM allows the secondary driver to control and or enter data into the OCD via touch input and or voice input as the vehicle is not moving or being driven.

In block the APIM requires that the secondary driver employ only voice input via the APIM to control and or enter data into the OCD . In such a case in the event the secondary driver attempts to control and or enter data into the OCD via touch input the APIM may send a signal not shown to the cluster and or SDM or any other device that is capable of providing visual notice or message to the driver that the OCD is only capable of responding to voice input to control and or enter data therein. It is generally contemplated that the visual notice include one or more of a light indicator text message or other such indicator generally situated to give the driver notice that voice input is needed. It is also generally contemplated that the APIM may also provide audible notice to the driver that voice input is needed.

In block the keys are monitored to determine if the keys were programmed to start the vehicle. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller is adapted to determine if the keys are valid for starting the vehicle. In the event the keys are not programmed or valid to start the vehicle the method moves to block . In the event keys are properly programmed the method moves to block .

In block an error is detected. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller determines an error and may not allow the driver to start the vehicle in the event the keys are not properly programmed to the vehicle.

In block the APIM determines if the primary driver enabled the emergency notification feature. If the primary driver enabled the emergency notification feature the method moves to block . If the primary driver has not enabled the emergency notification feature the method moves to block .

In block the cluster determines if the key is a primary key for the primary driver or if the key is a secondary key for the secondary driver. If the key is determined to be a primary key then the method moves to the end. If the key is determined to be the secondary key then the method moves to block .

In block the APIM determines whether the primary driver enables activates or disables deactivates the emergency notification feature for the secondary driver via the cluster and or the SDM . If the primary driver disabled the emergency notification feature for the secondary driver the method moves to block . If the primary driver enabled the emergency notification feature for the secondary driver the method moves to block .

In block the secondary driver is given the option of enabling the emergency notification feature the secondary driver cannot disable the emergency notification feature in the event such a feature is enabled by the primary driver . If the secondary driver enables the emergency notification feature the method moves to block . If the secondary driver leaves the emergency notification disabled as established by the primary driver the method moves to the end.

In block the RCM determines whether the vehicle is in an emergency state e.g. airbag deployment inertia switch being tripped etc .

In block the APIM determines whether the OCD that is electrically coupled therewith is a phone or text messaging device. If the APIM determines that the OCD is the music playback device or the line input then the method moves to block . If the APIM determines that the OCD is a phone or text messaging device then the method moves to block .

In block the APIM controls the IVCD to place a call with emergency personnel to notify such personnel that the vehicle is in an emergency state.

In block the APIM controls the OCD phone or text messaging device to communicate with emergency personnel to notify such personnel that the vehicle is in the emergency state.

It is generally contemplated that blocks and may also be performed for the primary driver in the event the primary driver has enabled the emergency notification feature and the primary driver is detected to be the driver of the vehicle.

While embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and described it is not intended that these embodiments illustrate and describe all possible forms of the invention. Rather the words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

