---

title: Pivot search results by time and location
abstract: Aggregating temporal information and location information to form a collective query. A search query is received from a user to identify search results. Temporal information and location information associated with the query inputs from information sources are received. One or more search results associated with the received query are identified in response to and as a function of the one or more query inputs, the received temporal information and the received location information. One or more graphical identifiers on a map are provided representing the one or more identified results. Each one or more provided graphical identifiers has at least one corresponding temporal identifiers on a calendar such that selecting one graphical identifier on the map focuses a corresponding one temporal identifier on the calendar or selecting one temporal identifier on the calendar selects a corresponding one graphical identifier on the map.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08839140&OS=08839140&RS=08839140
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08839140
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080523
---
Online or web search engines have become indispensible when browsing the World Wide Web. Due to the ever increasing number and variety of contents on the Internet web search engines have been developed to retrieve a plethora of information. Also such search engines are able to target specific types of information. For example online users can now search location based information by searching a particular location or business within a particular geographical region. Online users can also target search within categories such as scholarly papers or the like.

These existing search engines typically provide a long list of potential items that are related to the searched query. The list may be displayed in a text format in a graphical format or a combination of text and graphical format. The results may also be sorted by a determined relevancy score or other criteria. For targeted searches such as a location or a driving direction between two locations the search results typically include a map and turn by turn descriptions of the drive route.

While the quality of search results are improving one fundamental limitation remains a hurdle to many search engines. The search results continue to be one dimensional. For example suppose a user wishes to search for car dealerships close to the user s home location by just type car dealerships current search engines would only provide a list of search results in text format showing the most relevant results to the searched terms. To further narrow the search results the user may revise the search term by entering car dealerships Seattle or select one of the search results from the provided list. The list may either link another web page or an address where the car dealership is located.

These one dimensional results have a number of deficiencies including a lack of ability to expand the scope of the searched terms in a geographical or location dimension and or in a temporal dimension.

Embodiments of the invention overcome at some of the deficiencies of prior art by providing pivot or aggregated search results that automatically include temporal and location information when displaying the search results. Embodiments of the invention depending on the relevance of the search query provide the search results in a combination of a map and a calendar such that a user can readily and easily locate and identify the desirable search results. Alternative aspects of the invention further provide a term scope library defining additional temporal or location information for any given search terms entered by the user.

For example aspects of the invention permit expanding the scope of the searched terms in a geographical or location dimension and or in a temporal dimension. In other words when the user searches for car dealers the user receives the results in a map with graphical identifiers showing where the car dealers are located. In addition the search engine can automatically narrow the searches to a geographical region near where the user resides or where the user conducts the search.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments of the invention provide pivot summarization or aggregation of temporal information and location information in providing search results in response to a received search query. Currently users of online search engines are forced to think one dimensional by entering terms in mutually exclusive scope or dimension e.g. general search time calendar map location at a time. However human brains do not think that way and there is a reason why we say an image is worth a thousand words. 

The system also includes a processor . For example the processor may be a central processing unit CPU a microprocessor or other processing units that are capable of execute computer executable instructions. The system also includes a memory area for storing data for the system . The memory area stores among other things a term scope library . The term scope library defines a temporal scope or a location scope for one or more terms in the library . In one example the memory area includes computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store the desired information and that may be accessed by the system .

The system also includes an interface for interacting with a client device of the user . The client device may be a personal computer a personal digital assistant a smart phone a cellular phone or other digital devices with displays that are capable to connect to the Internet. For example the interface may include a web page having elements in the web page for receiving one or more search queries from the user and for providing the one or more search results to the user . The system also includes an information source . The information source may be another data store storing information such as a user profile having personal information associated with the user . In one embodiment the information source may gather information from external sources at a geographical location remote from that of the system . For example the information source may retrieve or obtain information from the client device such as default location information default time zone location default IP address IP history and previous search queries. In another embodiment this information may be included in the user profile. In the example of the user profile the system may be a federated or enterprise computer system where a number of services is provided to the user . As such the user may maintain the user profile when the user logs in or authenticates to one service provided as part of the enterprise system. Therefore the user profile includes a variety of information related to the user . In a further embodiment the information source may also be geographically located remotely from that of the system . In an alternative embodiment the information source is coupled with the memory area such that the information from the information source may be an input to the memory area for assisting or providing search results in response to search queries from the user . In one example the user may be a human user.

Initially the interface displays a web page or a page having a first display area receiving search inputs or queries from the user a second display area displaying a map and a third display area for displaying a calendar. In one example the first display area includes a search bar for receiving the search queries or search inputs from the user . In another embodiment the page also includes a fourth display area displaying additional information of a search result in response to a selection on the calendar in the third display area or a selection on the map in the second display area .

Referring now to a display illustrating embodiments of the invention in processing a user query in action. In this example the user wishes to search for terms open house. The search terms in this example includes one or more search inputs such as open and house. These search terms convey or define a semantic message that the user wishes to find out residential house sales and when and where the houses are available for viewing to the public. It is to be understood other terms or inputs may be entered without departing from the scope or spirit of embodiments of the invention.

Once the user enters the search terms the user may via an input device coupled to the client device select a search activation control or button to send the search terms to the processor for processing. The processor receives the search terms and attempts to identify one or more search results most relevant to the search terms . In one embodiment in identifying the most relevant search results the processor receives temporal information or location information from the information source . In this example the processor receives temporal information or location information from a user profile which may include user s internet protocol IP address the time of the date when the search query is provided or the like. In another embodiment the processor may identify the temporal or location information when receiving the search terms . For example when the search terms are received the processor may have already received such information from the client device via the interface . In another embodiment the processor may receive the temporal or location information from the client device by sending a cookie or other electronic tracking files to the client device .

In one example for the time temporal dimension the time horizon may be inferred from the search queries or search terms and may be learnt from user s clicks on similar searches in the past. For example the memory area or the user profile in the information source may store the past search results or search queries for the user . Upon receiving a new search queries the processor may first review the user profile for relevant queries or results for determining the time or temporal horizon. In another embodiment the client device may also store similar information locally and may be provided the temporal information to the processor . As such a feedback from the client device may be provided to the processor . In another example search queries such as open houses and garage sales are usually intended for the upcoming weekend . As such either the term scope library the user profile in the information source or the client device may provide temporal information to the processor . Similarly concerts or conferences may inherently involve a temporal dimension or scope of one to two months in advance. Also in one embodiment implicit in the time dimension is today s date and it can be obtained from various sources such as the clock maintained by the processor the client device or the like.

It is to be understood that based on the temporal dimension or scope the potential search results will vary accordingly. Hence the temporal information acts as a filter such that if the user searches the same thing a month from now the user will receive different results going forward. Also for past events such as election the search results identified will be associated with the events in the past. Similar search queries such as historical events or stock market news may be inherently include a temporal information in the past.

In another embodiment for the location dimension it is to be understood that embodiments of the invention are not limited to infer the IP Address of the client device . The inference may include without limitation location s where the user typically zooms in on maps directions stored or saved in the user profile or the searches users did over the last 3 months. In an alternative embodiment a heuristics engine may be used to study user s search behaviors or habits and provide suggested location information.

Once the processor receives the temporal and location information associated with the search terms the processor identifies one or more search results from the memory area e.g. potential search results data store . In the example illustrated in the search terms are open house the temporal information from the client device or other sources described above is May 11 2008 and the location information from the client device other sources IP address or the like is Seattle Wash. USA. In response to the search terms the temporal information and the location information embodiments of the invention identify one or more search results as a function of the received search terms the temporal information and the location information.

In response to the identified results embodiments of the invention provide the search results to the user . Unlike previous implementations where the search engines typically just display a list of text based search results. However embodiments of the invention improve over the existing technologies by aggregating the temporal information and location information or spatial information to the search terms so that aspects of the invention may provide a more holistic and richer user experience to the user . In so doing the temporal dimension and the spatial dimension of a given search results are provided to the user in an intuitive manner.

As such and as depicted in a pin or a graphical identifier is displayed on the map of the second display area. At the same time a temporal identifier is also displayed on the calendar of the third display area such that the graphical identifier corresponds to the temporal identifier . It is to be understood that only one graphical identifier and only one temporal identifier are displayed for illustration purposes and not for limitation. The number of graphical identifiers or temporal identifiers depends on the search terms the temporal information the location information and or the volume of the potential search results data store.

In further detail the graphical identifier corresponds to the temporal identifier . As such a selection of the graphical identifier results in focusing or selecting the temporal identifier as evident from the bolded selection box around the date May 17 . Similarly a selection of the temporal identifier results in focusing or selecting the graphical identifier . As such embodiments of the invention enable the user to view the search results in a concise and convenient manner because the search results intelligently display the most relevant information. Instead of showing a long list of search results that are relevant to the terms open house embodiments of the invention use graphical identifiers on the map and the temporal identifiers on the calendar to clearly convey where and when sales of residential houses are available for viewing to the public. The user no longer needs to click through a series of links before finding out when or where the relevant search results may have the information.

In one embodiment the map in the second display area may include one or more map related controls such as zoom out zoom in directional focus or the like. These additional controls effectively place additional criteria to the already retrieved or identified search results. As such the zoom out control the zoom in control and the direction focus control may act as a filter to the results by geographical proximity within a certain radius from the location information. Similarly the calendar in the third display area may include a control to change a time focus to a previous calendar month or a next calendar month. This control may act as a temporal filter to further refine the identified search results. Other controls associated with the calendar or the map may be available to the user without departing from the scope of the aspects of the invention.

Referring now to another display illustrates another embodiment of the invention with a fourth display area displaying additional detail of the search results in response to a selection of the graphical identifier or the temporal identifier . For example suppose the user selects the graphical identifier on the map in the first display area aspects of the invention in this embodiment not only focuses or selects the one or more temporal identifiers corresponding to the graphical identifier but also displays any additional information in the fourth display area . In this example the following additional information is provided 

Thus the user not only receives the where the open house for this particular house is located but also when the viewing of the house is available. Embodiments of the invention also provide and enable the user to retrieve any relevant information by providing links for the direction to the open house location and or other information such as neighborhood area information school information hospital information or the like.

Referring now to an alternative embodiment of the invention enable to the user to alter the received or default temporal information or location information. For example the processor without user input may automatically use the IP address of the client device of the user as the location information and the time information from the system as the temporal information by default. However the user may wish to look up information that is targeted to another geographical location or time. For example the user may wish to look up open house information for a relative who lives hundreds of miles away. As such aspects of the invention may provide a window requesting the user if the user wishes to modify the default or current location temporal information. The window may also display a dialog message requesting whether the user wishes to set a new and perhaps permanent temporal and or location information for all subsequent searches. In another embodiment such modification or changes may also be stored in the user profile for later retrieval.

It is to be understood that while the displays in include the first display area the second display area the third display area and the fourth display area embodiments of the invention and the GUI illustrated in may be incorporated into other interface elements without departing from the scope of embodiments of the invention.

Referring now to a block diagram illustrates a semantic analysis of a search term in a search query for determining a temporal scope or a location scope according to an embodiment of the invention. In one example a search query includes one or more search terms such as the search term classified. In this example the processor analyzes the search term by comparing the search term against one of the terms in the term scope library . As described above the terms scope library defines a temporal scope or a location scope for one or more terms. The term scope library may define the temporal scope or the location scope based on user past search experiences e.g. from the user profile or based on cookies sent to and retrieved from the client device . As such the term scope library may define a location scope of user IP address and a temporal scope of within last 3 weeks for the term classified at . The term scope library may include additional terms and the temporal scope and the location scope may be expressed in various formats or syntax e.g. executable expressions such that the processor may consume or apply the temporal scope and location scope in formulating the search results in response to the search query .

One or more search results associated with the received query are identified in response to and as a function of the one or more query inputs the received temporal information and the received location information at . At one or more graphical identifiers are provided on a map representing the one or more identified results. Each one or more provided graphical identifiers has at least one corresponding temporal identifiers on a calendar such that a selection of one of the graphical identifiers on the map from the user focuses a corresponding selection of one of the temporal identifiers on the calendar or a selection of one of the temporal identifiers on the calendar from the user selects a corresponding selection of one of the graphical identifiers on the map.

In another embodiment a determination is made at as to whether the one or more query inputs match one of the terms in the term scope library in the memory area. If the determination is negative embodiments of the invention proceed to receive the temporal information and or the location information at . On the other hand if the determination is positive defined temporal scope or location scope information is retrieved from the term scope library at . In a further alternative embodiment additional user overriding information may be provided e.g. modifying default temporal and location information or received at .

In operation the example below illustrates workings of embodiments of the invention. Suppose the user wishes to search for Concerts in the SF Bay Area . The user would enter that phrase in the search box and the results will show as pins on the map and events on the calendar. Each pin to which has a corresponding event tied on the calendar and details of the result may be posted in the Details Pane. If the user clicks on a day week or month the corresponding locations for those events are highlighted or focused on the map. If the user clicks on a pin or group of pins on the map the corresponding calendar dates are highlighted or focused. The Detail Pane in all scenarios shows what the users selected on either the map or calendar.

Embodiments of the invention provide a rich user experience by displaying results in an easy straightforward and intuitive manner. Users in the scenario above did not have to say they wanted this information for today or next week. The user may even decide not to enter the words SF Bay Area. The user may also change the map zoom and the corresponding calendar events will filter in out accordingly without ever need to click on the typical advanced button to filter or gain access to advanced search options. Users can also easily merge their personal work calendars for the week with events they are interested in along with the maps and details associated with them all in one page.

For purposes of illustration programs and other executable program components such as the operating system are illustrated herein as discrete blocks. It is recognized however that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components of the computer and are executed by the data processor s of the computer.

Although described in connection with an exemplary computing system environment including system and or client device embodiments of the invention are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. The computing system environment is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of any aspect of the invention. Moreover the computing system environment should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary operating environment. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with aspects of the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics mobile telephones network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments of the invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include but are not limited to routines programs objects components and data structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Aspects of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

An interface in the context of a software architecture includes a software module component code portion or other sequence of computer executable instructions. The interface includes for example a first module accessing a second module to perform computing tasks on behalf of the first module. The first and second modules include in one example application programming interfaces APIs such as provided by operating systems component object model COM interfaces e.g. for peer to peer application communication and extensible markup language metadata interchange format XMI interfaces e.g. for communication between web services .

The interface may be a tightly coupled synchronous implementation such as in Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition J2EE COM or distributed COM DCOM examples. Alternatively or in addition the interface may be a loosely coupled asynchronous implementation such as in a web service e.g. using the simple object access protocol . In general the interface includes any combination of the following characteristics tightly coupled loosely coupled synchronous and asynchronous. Further the interface may conform to a standard protocol a proprietary protocol or any combination of standard and proprietary protocols.

The interfaces described herein may all be part of a single interface or may be implemented as separate interfaces or any combination therein. The interfaces may execute locally or remotely to provide functionality. Further the interfaces may include additional or less functionality than illustrated or described herein.

In operation system executes computer executable instructions such as those illustrated in the figures to implement aspects of the invention.

The order of execution or performance of the operations in embodiments of the invention illustrated and described herein is not essential unless otherwise specified. That is the operations may be performed in any order unless otherwise specified and embodiments of the invention may include additional or fewer operations than those disclosed herein. For example it is contemplated that executing or performing a particular operation before contemporaneously with or after another operation is within the scope of aspects of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented with computer executable instructions. The computer executable instructions may be organized into one or more computer executable components or modules. Aspects of the invention may be implemented with any number and organization of such components or modules. For example aspects of the invention are not limited to the specific computer executable instructions or the specific components or modules illustrated in the figures and described herein. Other embodiments of the invention may include different computer executable instructions or components having more or less functionality than illustrated and described herein.

When introducing elements of aspects of the invention or the embodiments thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Having described aspects of the invention in detail it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention as defined in the appended claims. As various changes could be made in the above constructions products and methods without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

