---

title: Magnetic field enhanced metal fuel combustion
abstract: A magnetic flux enhanced metal fuel combustion system and method for producing energy. The energy may be used to drive a water vessel such as a submarine. The system and method includes a ring-shaped coil of an electromagnet surrounding a combustion chamber. The electromagnet produces a magnetic flux within the combustion chamber that limits contact between charged combustion particles and the sidewalls of the chamber, thereby enhancing the combustion of metallic fuels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07963115&OS=07963115&RS=07963115
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07963115
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080929
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

This application is related to U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11 272 424 filing date 8 Nov. 2005 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Air Independent Fuel Combustion Energy Conversion joint inventors William A. Lynch and Neal A. Sondergaard.

This application is related to U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11 900 142 filing date 5 Sep. 2007 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Metal Fuel Combustion and Energy Conversion System joint inventors William A. Lynch and Neal A. Sondergaard.

The following description relates generally to a method and apparatus for providing metal fuel combustion more particularly a magnetic field enhanced combustion system in which a magnetic field is introduced into a combustion chamber for providing more efficient metal combustion.

Combustion systems may be used to generate energy to propel commercial and military sea vessels. In combustion systems fuels typically react with oxidants such as oxygen or fluorine. In combustion systems in which oxygen is utilized as the oxidant the oxygen is typically obtained from atmospheric air. In combustion systems for subsurface vehicles such as submarines it would be advantageous to utilize air independent oxidation sources.

Solid light weight metallic fuels such as aluminum and magnesium powder mixtures may be employed in combustion systems. The aluminum type fuel mixture advantageously provides an excellent energy density as a result of the combustion. However its associated combustion discharge byproduct forms a slag responsible for agglomerating and clogging problems with respect to the exhaust port of the combustor. Clogging and agglomerating also contributes to incomplete combustion. The prior art does not teach a metal combustor that avoids clogging and agglomerating.

In one aspect the invention is a metal fuel combustion system for enhancing metal fuel combustion. The system includes a combustion chamber an electromagnet having a ring shaped coil arrangement. In this aspect the ring shaped coil arrangement surrounds the combustion chamber and provides a magnetic flux within the combustion chamber. The system further includes a metal fuel source having a metallic fuel the metal fuel source being attached to the combustion chamber. The system also has an oxidant source having one or more oxidants the oxidant source being attached to the combustion chamber. In this aspect the invention includes a working fluid source having working fluid the working fluid source attached to the combustion chamber. The metal fuel combustion system also includes a first outlet attached to the combustion chamber for discharging combustion gases and a second outlet at a lower end of the combustion chamber for directing combustion byproducts out of the combustion chamber.

In another aspect the invention is a method of metal fuel combustion. The method includes the providing of a combustion chamber. The method also includes the feeding of a metallic fuel working fluid and one or more oxidants into the combustion chamber. In this aspect the method further includes igniting a combustion reaction within the combustion chamber using at least the metallic fuel and the one or more oxidants. The method of metal fuel combustion further includes the limiting of contact between reaction particles and inner walls of the combustion chamber by introducing a magnetic flux within combustion chamber.

Similar to the system the system includes a working fluid supply a metal fuel supply and an oxidant supply . The working fluid the metallic fuel and the oxidants supplied by and comprise materials as outlined above with respect to the system . The working fluid supply is connected to the combustion chamber via a first inlet . Similarly the metal fuel supply is connected to the combustion chamber via a second inlet and the oxidant supply is connected to the combustion chamber via a third inlet . also shows a first outlet which leads to a turbine . The turbine converts thermal energy produced by combustion into mechanical energy which may be subsequently converted to other forms of energy such as electrical energy. The turbine may be attached to a generator or a drive train shown at . also shows a byproduct collector for collecting and processing combustion byproducts via a second outlet .

Although single inlets and are shown for providing working fluid metallic fuel and oxidants respectively the system may include a plurality of inlets for supplying the chamber with the different combustion elements. Similarly the system may include a plurality of outlets. For example a plurality of outlet ports may be provided for directing combustion gasses towards the turbine.

As shown in the combustion system also includes a ring shaped coil assembly which may include a plurality of rings. The ring shaped coil assembly is positioned so that it surrounds the combustion chamber . The coil assembly is preferably positioned so that the coil and the chamber substantially share a single central point so that a concentric relation exist between the coil arrangement and the combustion chamber . The ring shaped coil assembly is part of an electromagnet. The electromagnet may be a superconducting magnet such as the exemplary magnet shown in . The electromagnet and associated ring shaped coil assembly introduces a magnetic flux into the combustion chamber .

In operation the combustion system may be used to provide energy to water vessels including submarines and the like. The system may operate as follows. The electromagnet which may preferably be a superconducting magnet is switched on to provide the magnetic flux pattern within the combustion chamber . Working fluid such as water metallic fuel and one or more oxidants are fed into the chamber via respective inlets and . As stated above the metallic fuel may include magnesium aluminum or silicon and combinations thereof which may also include lithium and or boron. As outlined above in one particular embodiment the fuel may be a pre cordierite alloy with a net composition such as MgAlSi.

The combustion in the combustion chamber may take place at temperatures of about 2500 C. to about 3500 C. At these temperatures ionized combustion particles can form and experience forces that modify their motion as compared to a similar system without the magnetic field. Due to the magnetic flux present these moving charged particles experience forces which slow the motion of the particles. This results in increasing the dwell time of the fuel within the combustion chamber. Furthermore the magnetic forces on the charged particles compel the particles not to cross the flux lines thus keeping the high temperature particles toward the center of the chamber and away from the walls. Oppositely charged particles would be accelerated in opposite directions and may collide to improve combustion. Magnetically induced circulating currents within larger electrically conductive spinning metal particles could break them into smaller particles to speed combustion and reduce the possibility of agglomeration and this effect may be increased if the magnet is supplied with an AC current source. shows charged combustion particles entrained by the magnetic flux pattern and held in the middle of the combustion chamber . As shown the curve at the lower portion is similar to the curve of the magnetic flux pattern . The magnetic flux pattern is therefore complementary to the shape of the combustion chamber maximizing the ability to keep particles at the center of the chamber . In addition to increasing the dwell time clogging and agglomeration is decreased because of reduced contact with the sidewalls of the chamber.

Hydrogen and steam produced by the combustion reaction exits the chamber via the first outlet towards the turbine . The turbine converts thermal energy produced by combustion into mechanical energy which powers a drive train or a generator shown at . The hydrogen may be utilized in a fuel cell but a suitable additional oxidant would be needed. Combustion byproducts are disposed via the filter to the byproduct collector . When MgAlSiis used as the fuel the combustion byproduct is the eutectic cordierite oxide MgAlSiO. It should be noted that generally speaking the operation of the magnetic field enhanced system as outlined is similar to that of system .

The magnetic enhanced combustion system further includes a ring shaped coil arrangement . The coil arrangement is part of an electromagnet similar to the coil arrangements of systems and and is used to provide a magnetic flux pattern within the combustion device . The electromagnet associated with the ring shaped coil is preferably a superconducting magnet. An example of one such superconducting magnet is shown in . The ring shaped coil arrangement surrounds a lower portion of the combustion device . Similar to the illustration in the lower portion has a curved shape similar to the curve of the magnetic flux thereby maximizing the ability to maintain combustion particles at the center of the combustion device .

Step is the feeding of a metallic fuel water and one or more oxidants into the combustion chamber . Step is the igniting of the combustion reaction within the combustion chamber using the metallic fuel the one or more oxidants and the water as reactants. Step is the limiting of contact between reaction particles and the inner walls of the combustion chamber by introducing a magnetic flux within combustion chamber. The magnetic flux is introduced using an electromagnet preferably a superconducting magnet having a ring shaped coil arrangement. The ring shaped coil arrangement is positioned around the combustion chamber thereby introducing a magnetic flux into the chamber.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

