---

title: Catalytic deamination for caprolactam production
abstract: Catalytic processes for preparing caprolactam, pipecolinic acid, and their derivatives, from lysine or alpha-amino-epsilon-caprolactam starting materials, and products produced thereby. A process for preparing caprolactam or a derivative thereof, the process comprising contacting a reactant comprising lysine or alpha aminocaprolactam with a catalyst and a gas comprising hydrogen gas, in the presence of a solvent. The catalyst may be provided on a support material, such as a transition metal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08283466&OS=08283466&RS=08283466
owner: Board of Trustees of Michigan State University
number: 08283466
owner_city: East Lansing
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080220
---
This application is a national stage application of International Application No. PCT US2008 002202 filed Feb. 20 2008 which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No 60 902 211 filed on Feb. 20 2007.

The present work was performed in part with funding from the U.S. National Science Foundation Grant No. NSF CHE 0211375. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in this technology.

The present technology relates to routes for catalytic conversion of lysine or amino caprolactam to high value compounds that can be derivatized to prepare polymers pharmaceuticals and other useful materials.

Lysine is useful as a starting material for production of various azacyclic hydrocarbons. For example lysine can be used to prepare amino caprolactam ACL which can then be deaminated to form epsilon caprolactam as described e.g. in WO2005 123669 to Frost. Lysine can also be used to prepare pipecolinic acid PCA as described in B. Pal et al. Photocatalytic redox combined synthesis of L pipecolinic acid from L lysine by suspended titania particles effect of noble metal loading on the selectivity and optical purity of the product 217 152 59 2003 available on line at http eprints.lib.hokudai.ac.jp dspace bitstream 2115 14649 1 JC2003 217 1.pdf .

Epsilon caprolactam hereinafter caprolactam is a high value compound that is in widespread used for nylon 6 production and is also useful e.g. for preparation of other polyamides for synthetic fibers films and coatings for preparation of pharmaceutical compounds such as CNS depressants muscle relaxants anti hypertensives and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and as a plasticizer or cross linking agent for various polymers. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 504 047 to Knaup U.S. Pat. No. 4 520 021 to Harris et al. and J. H. Skerritt et al. Differential modulation of gamma aminobutyric acid receptors by caprolactam derivatives with central nervous system depressant or convulsant activity 331 2 225 33 8 Apr. 1985 .

PCA is also useful to form various PCA derivatives that are high value pharmaceuticals examples of which include viral protease inhibitors anti convulsants analgesics and biliary disorder treatments. See e.g. US 2001 0056184 to Noda et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 807 870 to Anderson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 639 744 to Marchi et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 826 819 Vecchietti et al. J. Heitman et al. Targets for cell cycle arrest by the immunosuppressant rapamycin in yeast 253 905 909 23 Aug. 1991 doi 10.1126 science.1715094 S. B. Shuker et al. Discovering high affinity ligands for proteins SAR by NMR 274 1531 34 29 Nov. 1996 doi 10.1126 science.274.5292.1531 F. Couty Asymmetric syntheses of pipecolic acid and derivatives 16 3 4 297 320 September 1999 doi 10.1007 BF01388174 and R. Paruszewski et al. Amino acid derivatives with anticonvulsant activity 49 629 31 2001 doi 10.1248 cpb.49.629 .

Additionally because of their bioactive effects caprolactam and PCA are also commonly used to prepare pharmaceutical candidate compounds such as receptor and or enzyme ligands. In some cases the core of such a compound can comprise the caprolactam or PCA residue in some cases a pendant moiety of the compound can comprise the caprolactam or PCA residue.

Employing readily obtainable inexpensive lysine as a starting material offers the option of avoiding costly petrochemical synthesis of caprolactam. In regard to PCA employing a lysine starting material provides the option of avoiding extensive purification steps for isolating commercial quantities of PCA from biological sources or for isolating large quantities of biological picolinic acid for reduction to PCA. Yet to date there have been provided only a limited number of catalytic routes for converting lysine to such useful high value materials. In particular deamination of ACL has been described but no routes utilizing hydrodenitrogenation has been identified.

Hydrodenitrogenation of petroleum has traditionally employed sulfided Co Mo on AlOand sulfided Ni Mo on AlO. See T. C. Ho 1988 117 160 and I. Mochida et al. 47 145 163 2004 . The amines in petroleum include heterocyclic amines anilines and aliphatic amines. Hydrodenitrogenations of substituted cyclohexylamines other alkylamines and substituted pyridine using sulfided Ni Mo on AlOhave been mechanistically studied. See respectively F. Rota et al. 200 389 399 2001 and F. Rota et al. 202 195 199 2001 cyclohexylamines Y. Zhao et al. 222 532 544 2004 and Y. Zhao et al. 221 441 454 2004 other alkylamines and M. Egorova et al. 206 263 271 2002 substituted pyridine .

Gas phase hydrodenitrogenation of aliphatic amines heterocyclic amines and anilines have been reported using stoichiometric amounts of Pt on SiO. See M. J. Guttieri et al. 49 2875 2880 1984 . Pyridine hydrodenitrogenation has been studied using C supported sulfided NiMo Zr Ag Nb Mo Rh and Pd catalysts. See M. J. Ledoux et al. 115 580 590 1989 . Simultaneous hydrodenitrogenation of pyridine and hydrodesulfurization of thiophene employed C supported Rh Ru Pd Ir and Pt. See e.g. Z. Vit et al. 119 1 7 1989 . In addition quinoline hydrodenitrogenation has been examined using sulfided C supported W Re Os Ir Pt Mo Ru Rh Pd V Cr Mn Fe Co and Ni. See S. Eijsbouts et al. 109 217 220 1988 .

However hydrodenitrogenation of L lysine and alpha aminocaprolactam have not been previously reported. Therefore it would be advantageous to provide alternative and improved methods for converting inexpensive lysine starting materials to useful high value products such as caprolactam PCA and their derivatives by novel hydrodenitrogenation routes that can be practiced in a convenient one pot reaction format.

In various embodiments the present technology provides alternative and improved methods for converting lysine or alpha amino caprolactam ACL starting materials to caprolactam PCA and their derivatives by novel hydrodenitrogenation routes that can be practiced in a convenient one pot reaction format. In various embodiments the present technology further provides 

Processes for preparing a reaction product comprising caprolactam such processes comprising the step of contacting a reactant comprising lysine alpha aminocaprolactam salts thereof thereof with a catalyst and a gas comprising hydrogen gas the catalyst being optionally supported on a catalyst support and optionally said contacting is performed in the presence of a solvent 

Processes for preparing caprolactam or a derivative thereof involving contacting a starting material comprising lysine or alpha amino caprolactam ACL with a hydrodenitrogenation catalyst in a solvent e.g. an organic solvent and contacting that combination with an Hgas or Hgas mixture atmosphere to form a reaction mixture bringing the reaction mixture to an elevated temperature at which the hydrodenitrogenation reaction can proceed and maintaining the reaction mixture at an elevated temperature for a sufficient time for the hydrodenitrogenation reaction to produce caprolactam 

Such processes in which the catalyst is a transition metal hydrodenitrogenation catalyst such processes in which the hydrodenitrogenation catalyst comprises a sulfided transition metal such processes in which an Hgas mixture atmosphere thereof comprises HS 

Such processes that further involve isolating caprolactam so produced or preparing a derivative of caprolactam so produced or both 

Processes for preparing pipecolinic acid or a derivative thereof involving contacting a starting material comprising lysine with a hydrodenitrogenation catalyst in a reaction solvent and contacting that combination with an Hgas or Hgas mixture atmosphere to form a reaction mixture bringing the reaction mixture to an elevated temperature at which the hydrodenitrogenation reaction can proceed and maintaining the reaction mixture at an elevated temperature for a sufficient time for the hydrodenitrogenation reaction to produce pipecolinic acid 

Such processes in which the catalyst is a transition metal hydrodenitrogenation catalyst such processes in which the reaction solvent comprises water 

Such processes that further involve isolating pipecolinic acid so produced or preparing a derivative of pipecolinic acid so produced or both 

Processes for preparing caprolactam such processes comprising heating a reactant comprising lysine to a temperature of about 50 C. to 300 C. optionally in the presence of a first catalyst to produce a first reaction product comprising alpha amino caprolactam contacting said first reaction product with a gas comprising hydrogen and a second catalyst produce a second reaction product comprising caprolactam and recovering caprolactam from the second reaction product to produce a recovered caprolactam 

Systems for preparation of caprolactam or a caprolactam derivative in which the systems include 1 a starting material containing lysine or alpha amino caprolactam ACL 2 a hydrodenitrogenation catalyst 3 an organic hydrodenitrogenation reaction solvent and 4 Hgas or an Hgas mixture wherein a combination of 1 2 and 3 under an atmosphere of 4 is capable upon heating of producing caprolactam by hydrodenitrogenation of the lysine or ACL 

Systems for preparing pipecolinic acid or a pipecolinic acid derivative in which the systems include 1 a starting material containing lysine 2 a hydrodenitrogenation catalyst 3 an aqueous reaction solvent and 4 Hgas or an Hgas mixture wherein a combination of 1 2 and 3 under an atmosphere of 4 is capable upon heating of producing pipecolinic acid by hydrodenitrogenation of the lysine or ACL and

Caprolactam and caprolactam derivatives produced thereby and pipecolinic acid and pipecolinic acid derivatives produced thereby.

The following description of technology is merely exemplary in nature of the subject matter manufacture and use of one or more inventions and is not intended to limit the scope application or uses of any specific invention claimed in this application or in such other applications as may be filed claiming priority to this application or patents issuing therefrom. The following definitions and non limiting guidelines must be considered in reviewing the description of the technology set forth herein.

The headings such as Introduction and Summary and sub headings such as Starting Materials used herein are intended only for general organization of topics within the disclosure of the technology and are not intended to limit the disclosure of the technology or any aspect thereof. In particular subject matter disclosed in the Introduction may include aspects of technology within the scope of one or more inventions and may not constitute a recitation of prior art. Subject matter disclosed in the Summary is not an exhaustive or complete disclosure of the entire scope of the technology or any embodiments thereof.

The citation of references herein does not constitute an admission that those references are prior art or have any relevance to the patentability of the technology disclosed herein. Any discussion of the content of references cited in the Introduction is intended merely to provide a general summary of assertions made by the authors of the references and does not constitute an admission as to the accuracy of the content of such references. All references cited in the Description section of this specification are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The description and specific examples while indicating embodiments of the technology are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the technology. Moreover recitation of multiple embodiments having stated features is not intended to exclude other embodiments having additional features or other embodiments incorporating different combinations of the stated features. Specific Examples are provided for illustrative purposes of how to make use and practice the compositions and methods of this technology and unless explicitly stated otherwise are not intended to be a representation that given embodiments of this technology have or have not been made or tested.

In various embodiments hereof catalytic hydrodenitrogenation of aminocaprolactam or lysine are performed to provide caprolactam or in some lysine utilizing embodiments pipecolinic acid. In some embodiments L lysine can be used as a starting material and this can be derived from a simple carbon source as illustrated in Scheme 1.

Thus in various embodiments according to the present technology lysine e.g. D L or racemic lysine can be converted to caprolactam or to pipecolinic acid PCA in a one pot reaction. In various embodiments hereof amino caprolactam ACL e.g. D L or racemic ACL can be converted to caprolactam in a one pot reaction. These conversions are performed using hydrodenitrogenation conditions and catalysts.

As described in WO2005 123669 to Frost various routes can be used to provide lysine for example a simple carbon source can be bioconverted to lysine. Also as described therein lysine can be cyclized to form aminocaprolactam ACL . Such routes are useful to provide starting materials for reactions according to various embodiments of the present technology. Various commercial sources of lysine or ACL are also useful. In some embodiments the lysine or ACL can be L lysine or L ACL.

Starting materials can comprise the lysine or ACL as well as other components that do not inhibit the reaction. Thus either neat or raw or partially purified lysine or ACL sources can be used in various embodiments. Starting materials can comprise solvent s buffer s free radical scavengers and other components that enhance or do not inhibit the catalyzed reaction s .

A reaction hereof utilizes a hydrodenitrogenation catalyst. Various hydrodenitrogenation catalysts can be used such as are known in the art. Common examples of these include 1 transition metal compounds e.g. oxides carbides and 2 transition metals and their alloys. In various embodiments hereof the selected hydrodenitrogenation catalyst can be a transition metal hydrodenitrogenation catalyst or a transition metal combination or alloy hydrodenitrogenation catalyst. Among transition metal and alloy hydrodenitrogenation catalysts those comprising a Group IB Group VB Group VIB Group VIIB or Group VIIIB transition metal are considered desirable in various embodiments the catalyst can comprise a Group VIB Group VIIB or Group VIIIB transition metal or Au in some embodiments the catalyst can comprise a Group VIIB or Group VIIIB transition metal or Au.

In some embodiments a noble metal or a Mo or Mo alloy combination catalyst can be used. Useful examples of these include Pt Au Pd Rh Re Ru and Ir and Ni Mo and Co Mo alloys. In some embodiments a Ni metal catalyst can be used. In reactions converting lysine to pipecolinic acid Ni metal catalysts are also useful in some embodiments thereof the catalyst can be Raney nickel. In some embodiments of lysine to pipecolinic acid conversions hereof the catalyst can comprise Au Pd Rh Re Ru Ir or Ni.

Further catalysts useful herein include those described e.g. in M. F. Williams Sulfur and Nitrogen Sensitivity of Supported Pt Hydrogenation Catalysts June 2005 doctoral dissertation Technische Universit t M nchen available on line at http deposit.ddb.de cgi bin dokserv idn 97769531x dok var d1 dok ext pdf filename 97769531x.pdf Y. Zhao Mechanisms of Hydrodenitrogenation of Amines over Sulfided NiMo CoMo and Mo Supported on AlO 2004 doctoral dissertation Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich available on line at http e collection.ethbib.ethz.ch ecol pool diss fulltext eth15555.pdf U.S. Pat. No. 4 368 115 to Chianelli et al. for Catalysts comprising layered chalcogenides of group IVb group VIII prepared by a low temperature nonaqueous precipitate technique and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 252 199 and 5 278 121 to Singhal et al. respectively for Hydrotreating process using novel multimetallic sulfide catalysts and for Multimetallic sulfide catalyst containing noble metals for hydrodenitrogenation. 

In some embodiments the metal or alloy hydrodenitrogenation catalyst can be sulfided prior to use as by contact at elevated temperature with HS gas e.g. an H HS mixture in some embodiments the sulfiding can be performed using catalyst material from which much or all of the adsorbed oxygen and or nitrogen has been removed e.g. such as by flushing with a noble gas.

The catalyst s used in a reaction hereof can be provided as particles e.g. microparticles or nanoparticles or in the form of a monolithic or porous solid or in any format that presents at least one contiguous surface area of the catalytic species e.g. a nano textured noble metal surface. The catalyst can be presented on a solid support in various embodiments. In embodiments in which a catalyst support is used the support can be any useful support known in the art. Such support materials include carbon SiO metal s alloy s and metal compound s e.g. metal salts carbides or oxides such as NiO AlO TiO ZrO aluminosilicates silica titania titania alumina and mixed oxides e.g. Ti Zr V mixed oxides and the like and mixtures thereof.

The catalytic species can be deposited on the support utilizing any of the various methods known useful therefore in the art such as by sputter coating or by deposition involving heating an aqueous solution of a salt of the metal species with which solution the support material is in contact. In embodiments that employ heating a metal salt solution metal halides e.g. metal chlorides can be used examples of which include HPtCland HAuCl.

In various embodiments a hydrodenitrogenation reaction hereof involves combining the lysine or ACL starting material with a hydrodenitrogenation catalyst in hydrodenitrogenation reaction solvent. The resulting combination is placed under an atmosphere of Hgas or an Hgas mixture to form a reaction mixture. The reaction mixture is typically located within a reaction vessel and in various embodiments the reaction vessel can be one that is able to withstand charging with pressures up to e.g. about 1000 psi about 5000 psi or more. Glass and stainless steel vessels are commonly employed and reaction vessels can be lined with a layer of e.g. a glass PTFE PHFP PFEP e.g. TEFLON or other non reactive substance.

In hydrodenitrogenation reactions hereof that are employed for producing caprolactam the reaction solvent can be an organic reaction solvent. In some embodiments an organic reaction solvent can be chosen from among tetrahydrofuran THF dimethylformamide DMF chlorobenzene chloroform pyridine and combinations thereof. In some embodiments THF can be used as the organic reaction solvent. In some embodiments in which the conversion of lysine to caprolactam is catalyzed the reaction solvent can be ethanol.

In the case of conversion of lysine to pipecolinic acid the reaction solvent can be aqueous e.g. water.

The atmosphere in the reaction vessel can comprise Hor an H and HS mixture. Where an H HS mixture is used the HS can be present as a minority component i.e. less than 50 vol. and about or at least 1 vol. of the total gas content of the atmosphere. In some embodiments about or at least 5 vol. or about or at least 10 or 15 vol. HS can be present. In some embodiments about or up to 40 vol. or up to or about 35 or 30 vol. HS can be present. In various such embodiments from about 5 to about 40 vol. HS can be present or from about 5 to about 30 or from about 5 to about 25 or from about 10 to about 25 or about 20 vol. .

The pressure of the reaction vessel atmosphere can be elevated. In some embodiments at the start of the reaction the pressure can be from about 50 to about 3000 psi or from about 100 to about 1000 psi or up to about 500 or 200 or 250 psi in some embodiments the pressure can be from about 50 to about 150 psi. In reactions in which the reaction vessel is charged with about 50 to about 150 psi of gas during the reaction the temperature typically rises to about 600 to 650 psi.

In various embodiments the reaction mixture is heated and maintained at an elevated temperature at which hydrodenitrogenation reaction can proceed. In various embodiments the elevated temperature can be at least or about 100 C. but is kept below a temperature at which either the reaction cannot proceed or at which the reactants or products are combusted or otherwise unrecoverably destroyed. In some embodiments the elevated temperature can be from about 50 C. to about 300 C. or from about 200 C. to about 300 C. or about 250 C.

In performing the reaction the starting material containing lysine or ACL is contact with the catalyst in a reaction solvent and this combination is placed under i.e. contacted with an atmosphere as described above this statement is used herein to indicate that the combination can be contacted with such an atmosphere as a separate step or can be prepared under the stated atmosphere. This does not limit the reaction to use in batch formats.

A variety of different reaction formats are useful herein. Though batch reaction processes can be used continuous and fed batch formats are also useful as are extractive formats in which the desired products and or targeted by products are removed from the reaction mixture either intermittently or continuously. Stirred tank reflux and other circulation formats can likewise be employed. These and other useful reaction formats and where mixing is desired mixing modes are well known in the field of art and any such techniques known useful therefore can be employed.

In various embodiments the reaction mixture remains above room temperature or is maintained at the desired elevated temperature for a sufficient time to permit the reaction to proceed. In various embodiments such a reaction time can be from about 0.1 to about 12 hours or from about 1 to about 10 or about 2 to about 8 hours or from about 4 to about 8 hours.

After a given reaction the desired product can be recovered. Also the catalyst can be re used. In some embodiments a caprolactam or pipecolinic acid product can be further treated to produce a derivative thereof. The caprolactam or pipecolinic acid used to prepare such a derivative can in some embodiments first be recovered from the reaction mixture e.g. by separation to any desired degree of purity.

Further materials and methods useful in various embodiments hereof are known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Some sources of useful materials and methods include T. C. Ho 1988 117 160 I. Mochida et al. 47 145 163 2004 F. Rota et al. 200 389 399 2001 F. Rota et al. 202 195 199 2001 Y. Zhao et al. 222 532 544 2004 Y. Zhao et al. 221 441 454 2004 M. Egorova et al. 206 263 271 2002 M. J. Guttieri et al. 49 2875 2880 1984 M. J. Ledoux et al. 115 580 590 1989 Z. Vit et al. 119 1 7 1989 S. Eijsbouts et al. 109 217 220 1988 M. S. Chen et al. 306 252 255 2004 and A. Corma et al. 313 332 334 2006 .

As stated above various reaction formats hereof can employ different orders of addition of reaction materials reactants solvents gases catalysts and other components to a reactor for performing a catalytic hydrodenitrogenation reaction according to various embodiments hereof using a starting material that comprises lysine or alpha amino caprolactam ACL .

Hydrodenitrogenation catalysts that can be employed herein include any known useful therefore in the art common examples of which include those comprising Group VIB metals such as Mo Ni Mo Co Mo W Ni W Co W catalysts catalysts comprising one or more such metal s and sulfides phosphides nitrides carbides or borides of any of the foregoing e.g. MoS MoP MoN MoC WP NiP CoMoP NiMoP and the like. Combinations thereof can be used in some embodiments. In some embodiments transition metal oxide s can be used as alternative or supplemental catalysts. In some embodiments the catalyst can further comprise one or more additional transition metals in combination with the above described materials. In some embodiments a non transition metal promoter such as barium can be included in or with the catalyst. Any method known in the art as useful therefore can be applied to prepare the selected catalyst s .

Typically the selected catalyst is provided disposed on a solid support such as alumina silica titania or other inert material and this can be an amorphous or structured material e.g. having a zeolite honeycomb or other structure. The supported catalyst can be provided in the form of a porous or monolithic solid mass for a fixed bed reactor or in any desired particulate or other format useful for a stirred tank moving bed fluid bed floating bed rolling bed or other desired reactor geometry. In some embodiments catalyst combinations can be used e.g. with different catalysts occupying different micro meso or macro zones of the reactor. Multi bed reactors can be used in some embodiments hereof. In some multi bed reactor embodiments each bed can comprise the same catalyst or catalyst combination or a different catalyst or catalyst combination. Different catalysts can be prepared using the same or different solid support materials and similarly differently supported versions of the same catalyst can be used in some embodiments hereof.

The reaction conditions of various embodiments hereof typically employ a reaction solvent which is commonly an organic reaction solvent. In various embodiments examples of useful organic reaction solvents include hydrocarbons of up to or about C18 typically about C5 to about C16 or about C6 to about C10. In some embodiments the solvent can be a homohydrocarbon solvent. The solvent can be aliphatic cycloaliphatic or aromatic. In some embodiments that employ an aliphatic or cycloaliphatic solvent the solvent can be saturated. Examples of common useful solvents include hexane octane decane hexadecane cyclohexane benzene and toluene and combinations thereof.

The reaction materials hereof include in addition to the to be hydrodenitrogenated compound a gas comprising H. In some embodiments the gas can comprise a mixture of Hwith one or more additional gases e.g. inert gases or gases useful for maintaining the catalyst. For example in some embodiments in which a sulfided catalyst is used HS can be included in the gas.

In various embodiments the reaction conditions useful for catalytic hydrodenitrogenation processes hereof include elevated pressure and elevated temperature i.e. elevated above ambient conditions of about 25 45 C. and about 0.1 MPa. In some embodiments a total elevated reaction pressure of typically up to or about 20 MPa can be used and this can be at least or about 0.5 1 2 3 5 10 or 15 MPa or less than or about 15 10 or 5 MPa a typical pressure can fall within a range from about 2 to about 10 MPa or from 2 to about 5 MPa. In some embodiments the temperature can be from about 175 to about 500 C. and this can be at least or about 200 250 or 300 C. and less than or about 500 450 400 350 or 300 C. a typical temperature can fall within a range of about 250 to about 500 C. about 250 to about 450 C. about 250 to about 400 C. or about 250 to about 350 C.

Further examples of catalysts solvents reaction conditions and reactor geometries for hydrodenitrogenation processes useful herein include those described e.g. in U.S. Pat. No. 4 022 683 to Bludis et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 465 790 to Quayle U.S. Pat. No. 4 716 142 to Laine et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 740 487 to Matheson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 409 600 to Weissman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 855 767 to Powers et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 162 351 to Sudhakar et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 267 874 to Iijima et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 112 312 to Chou all incorporated by reference herein.

In regard to orders of addition in various embodiments the selected catalyst can be loaded into the reactor before addition of the reaction materials or the reaction materials can be added to the reactor before addition of the catalyst although the former types of formats are considered particularly useful in some embodiments hereof. Similarly where the gas and other reaction materials are mixed together before admission to the reactor each of these can be heated before being mixed or they can be mixed first and then heated although latter formats can be particularly useful in some embodiments hereof. Any materials added to the reactor can likewise be either preheated or non preheated.

In some embodiments the compound s to be hydrodenitrogenated can be gasified prior to admission to the reactor or a liquid comprising such compound s e.g. along with reaction solvent can be gasified prior thereto. This can typically be accomplished by pre heating to about 240 or 250 C.

In some embodiments the gas comprising Hor comprising Hand a supplemental gas e.g. HS can be provided to the reactor before addition of the to be hydrodenitrogenated compound compound comprising liquid or gasified version thereof in some embodiments the gas and liquid can be combined to form a mixture of reaction materials prior to being admitted to the reactor. In embodiments in which the gas is admitted to the reactor before addition of the compound to be hydrodenitrogenated the reactor can contain the catalyst and reaction solvent as well and in some embodiments such a loaded reactor can be brought to operating temperature and pressure i.e. at which the hydrodenitrogenated reaction can proceed prior to admission of the to be hydrodenitrogenated compound compound comprising liquid or gasified version thereof. A liquid comprising the compound to be hydrodenitrogenated can comprise reaction solvent along with said compound s and this solvent can be in addition to reaction solvent that can already be present in the reactor. Where reaction solvent is present both pre loaded into the reactor and in combination with the compound for hydrodenitrogenation these can be the same or different reaction solvents although normally the same solvent is selected.

In some embodiments the reaction materials can be placed into the reactor and then heated or can be pre heated and in some embodiments the reactor can be pre heated prior to addition of the reaction materials. Although it is possible to mix the catalyst and the reaction material s i.e. either the liquid or liquid gas mixture before addition of the resulting catalyst containing combination to the pre heated or non preheated reactor for heating other embodiments such as those in which a pre heated or non preheated liquid or gasified liquid or liquid gas mixture of reaction materials is added to a catalyst containing reactor is typically chosen.

In various embodiments the reaction materials i.e. either the liquid comprising the compound to be hydrodenitrogenated or the mixture thereof with the gas comprising H can be preheated to about or at least a temperature in the range of 200 to 250 C. In some embodiments the reaction materials are pre heated to obtain a homogeneous gas phase that is then admitted to a reactor that already contains the catalyst. The reactor can also be a pre heated reactor. Because the hydrodenitrogenated reaction is exothermic the reactor temperature is commonly controlled to maintain the temperature within a desired elevated temperature range typically within a range of about 250 to about 500 C. or about 300 to about 450 C.

Thus some embodiments hereof can employ a process for preparing caprolactam or a derivative thereof involving A providing a reaction mixture comprising 1 a starting material comprising lysine or alpha amino caprolactam ACL 2 a hydrodenitrogenation catalyst 3 an organic reaction solvent and 4 Hgas or an Hgas mixture the mixture being at an elevated temperature at which a hydrodenitrogenation reaction can proceed and B maintaining the reaction mixture at an elevated temperature for a sufficient time for the hydrodenitrogenation reaction to produce caprolactam.

Some embodiments hereof can involve A providing 1 a starting material comprising lysine or alpha amino caprolactam ACL 2 a hydrodenitrogenation catalyst 3 an organic reaction solvent and 4 Hgas or an Hgas mixture B placing the starting material into contact with the catalyst in the solvent under an atmosphere of the gas or gas mixture to form a reaction mixture C bringing the reaction mixture to an elevated temperature at which the hydrodenitrogenation reaction can proceed and D maintaining the reaction mixture at an elevated temperature for a sufficient time for the hydrodenitrogenation reaction to produce caprolactam.

Some such embodiments can involve A providing 1 a starting material comprising lysine or alpha amino caprolactam ACL 2 a hydrodenitrogenation catalyst 3 an organic reaction solvent and 4 Hgas or an Hgas mixture B placing the starting material into contact with the catalyst in the solvent and placing the resulting combination under an atmosphere of the gas or gas mixture to form a reaction mixture C bringing the reaction mixture to an elevated temperature at which the hydrodenitrogenation reaction can proceed and D maintaining the reaction mixture at an elevated temperature for a sufficient time for the hydrodenitrogenation reaction to produce caprolactam.

Some embodiments hereof can involve A providing 1 a starting material comprising lysine or alpha amino caprolactam ACL 2 a hydrodenitrogenation catalyst 3 an organic reaction solvent and 4 Hgas or an Hgas mixture B placing the starting material into contact with the solvent and the gas or gas mixture to form a reaction mixture C bringing the reaction mixture to an elevated temperature at which the mixture is converted to a homogeneous gas D placing the resulting homogeneous gas reaction mixture into contact with the catalyst at an elevated temperature at which the hydrodenitrogenation reaction can proceed and E maintaining the reaction mixture at an elevated temperature for a sufficient time for the hydrodenitrogenation reaction to produce caprolactam.

General. A LAB LINE HEET CAB oven Model No. 3515 is used for drying catalyst at constant temperature. The quartz U tube reactor is situated inside of a temperature programmable Barnstead Thermolyne Furnace Model No F6020C . Hydrodenitrogenations employ a Parr 4575 high pressure reactor and a Parr 4842 controller. To determine the concentration of pipecolinic acid and caprolactam crude residue concentrate is dissolved in DO concentrated to dryness and then dissolved in 1 mL DO containing 10 mM sodium 3 trimethylsilyl propionate 2 2 3 3 d TSP 0.0 ppm .

Concentrations are determined by comparison of an integrated H NMR resonance corresponding to pipecolinic acid and caprolactam with the integrated H NMR resonance corresponding to TSP 0.0 . A standard calibration curve is individually determined for pipecolinic acid and caprolactam using solutions of known concentrations prepared from authentic samples of pipecolinic acid and caprolactam. The following resonances are used to quantify each molecule pipecolinic acid 2.96 dd 1H caprolactam 2.46 m 2H .

Hydrodenitrogenation of L Lysine in Water. L Lysine hydrochloride 1.83 g 10 mmol water 100 mL and Raney Ni 0.58 g 10 mmol are added to the reaction chamber of a Parr high pressure reactor and the vessel is assembled. The reaction chamber is flushed for 10 min with Ar and then pressurized with Hto 100 psi 689.48 kPa . The reaction chamber s outlet valve is then opened to the atmosphere. This process is repeated two additional times. After repressurizing the reaction vessel with 100 psi of H the temperature of the stirred reaction vessel is increased to 200 C. which results in a reaction pressure of 300 psi. The reaction is held at 200 C. for 8 h. Upon cooling to rt room temperature the pressurized reaction vessel s His vented in a fume hood. After filtration the reaction solution is concentrated.

Preparation of Pt S C. Activated C 8.37 g 698 mmol is mixed with HPtCl.6HO 4.30 g 8.3 mmol and water 200 mL and heated for 1 h at 90 C. The water is then removed under reduced pressure. The resulting solid is dried in an oven for 12 h at 80 C. After transferring to a quartz U tube reactor in a temperature programmable furnace the catalyst is heated from rt to 130 C. heating rate 5 C. min under He flow rate 100 mL min and heated at this temperature for 1 h. The gas entering the quartz U tube reactor is switched to H HS 10 1 flow rate 100 mL min and the temperature increased to 400 C. heating rate 5 C. min and held at 400 C. for 2 h. The reactor is subsequently cooled to rt under He flow rate 100 mL min and the sulfided catalyst Pt S C stored under Ar. During the presulfiding process the gas flowing out of the outlet of the quartz U tube reactor is bubbled through a bleach solution to quench the HS in a fume hood.

Preparation of Au S NiO. The support NiO 6 g 80 mmol is added to a 600 mL aqueous solution of HAuCl 0.86 g 2.52 mmol and urea 15.12 g 252 mmol . The suspension is vigorously stirred at 80 C. for 4 h resulting in the solution changing from pH 2 to pH 8. The mixture of HAuCland NiO is recovered by centrifugation 15000 g for 10 min resuspended in 600 mL water and centrifuged again. This water wash followed by centrifugation is repeated 4 . The washed mixture of HAuCland NiO is dried under vacuum at 100 C. for 2 h and transferred to a quartz U tube reactor in a temperature programmable furnace and heated from rt to 100 C. heating rate 2 C. min under He flow rate 80 mL min . The gas is then switched to H HS 10 1 flow rate 80 mL min and the temperature increased to 300 C. heating rate 2 C. min and held at 300 C. for 2 h. The reactor is cooled to rt under He flow rate 100 mL min and the sulfided catalyst HAuCl S NiO stored under Ar. During the presulfiding process the gas outlet of the quartz U tube reactor is bubbled through a bleach solution to quench the HS in a fume hood.

Catalytic Hydrodenitrogenation of Amino caprolactam. Under Ar amino caprolactam 1.28 g 10 mmol THF 100 mL and 16.3 wt Pt S C 0.8 mmol are added to the reaction chamber of a Parr high pressure reactor and the vessel is assembled. The reaction chamber is flushed for 10 min with Ar and then pressurized with H HS 5 1 to 100 psi. The reaction chamber outlet valve is then opened to the atmosphere. This process is repeated two additional times. After repressurizing the reaction vessel with H HS 5 1 to 100 psi the temperature of the stirred reaction vessel is increased to 250 C. which results in a reaction pressure of 650 psi. The stirred reaction vessel is held at to 250 C. for 8 h. Upon cooling to rt the pressurized reaction vessel s H HS atmosphere is vented through a bleach solution in a fume hood. After filtration the reaction solution is concentrated and the residue dissolved in EtOAc. The EtOAc solution is extracted with water followed by stirring the aqueous layer with activated carbon. Filtration and concentration affords crude caprolactam.

Direct Conversion of L Lysine into Caprolactam. Under Ar L lysine hydrochloride 1.83 g 10 mmol NaOH 0.4 g 10 mmol EtOH 100 mL and 16 wt Pt S C 0.12 g 0.1 mmol are added to the reaction chamber of a Parr high pressure reactor and the vessel is assembled. The reaction chamber is flushed for 10 min with Ar and then pressurized with H HS 10 1 to 100 psi. The reaction chamber outlet valve is then opened to the atmosphere. This process is repeated two additional times. After repressurizing the reaction vessel with H HS 10 1 to 150 psi the temperature of the stirred reaction vessel is increased to 250 C. which results in a reaction pressure of 600 psi. The stirred reaction vessel is held at to 250 C. for 8 h. Upon cooling to rt the pressurized reaction vessel s H HS 10 1 atmosphere is vented through a bleach solution in a fume hood. After filtration the reaction solution is concentrated to afford crude caprolactam.

Hydrodenitrogenation of L lysine is performed in water using as a catalyst Raney Ni Ru on C or Pd on C under different water pressures. Although 6 aminocaproic acid is reasonably expected to form catalytic hydrodenitrogenation is found to afford pipecolinic acid and no detectable 6 aminocaproic acid according to the following reaction 

Hydrodenitrogenation of alpha amino caprolactam ACL is attempted utilizing a variety of catalysts and conditions according to the following reaction.

Use of sulfided Pt on C Pt S C as the catalyst temperature and reaction time are held constant while the H HS atmosphere is varied Table 3 . An initial atmosphere of 80 psi 20 psi H HS is determined entry 3 Table 3 to be the best mixture.

Presulfided Pt catalyst reaction time and the H HS atmosphere are kept constant while temperature is varied Table 4 . This leads to 250 C. entry 3 Table 4 being used as the routine hydrodenitrogenation reaction temperature.

Prior to optimization of the initial H HS atmosphere and the mol catalyst of presulfided Pt Pt S C employed a range of solvents is examined Table 5 . No formation of caprolactam is observed using acetonitrile entry 1 Table 5 as solvent. The highest yield of caprolactam is achieved using THF entry 2 Table 5 . Use of 2 5 dimethyltetrahydrofuran entry 3 Table 5 results in a tenfold reduction in the yield of caprolactam relative to use of THF as solvent entry 3 vs. entry 2 Table 5 .

After establishing that THF is the best solvent for hydrodenitrogenation the mol of catalyst relative to starting aminocaprolactam that gave the highest yield of caprolactam is determined Table 6 . Optimization of the mol catalyst is completed prior to optimization of the initial H HS atmosphere. Hydrodenitrogenation yields increase as the mol Pt relative to aminocaprolactam was increased from 2 mol entry 1 Table 6 to 4 mol entry 2 Table 6 to 8 mol entry 3 Table 6 . However yields do not increase after the mol Pt is increased from 8 mol to 16 mol entry 3 vs. entry 4 Table 6 .

Reuse of the Pt catalyst for multiple hydrodenitrogenations of aminocaprolactam is also attempted Table 7 . After the initial hydrodenitrogenation Pt catalyst is recovered. No reactivation or additional presulfiding of the Pt catalyst is employed. The hydrodenitrogenation of aminocaprolactam is repeated four times with reused catalyst and results in only a modest reduction in the yield of product caprolactam Table 7 .

With a reaction temperature mol catalyst time and solvent standardized 250 C. 8 mol 8 h and THF various catalysts are then tested Ru on C Table 8 Rh on C Table 9 Pd on C Table 10 Re on C Table 11 Ir on C Table 12 and Ni Mo on C Table 13 . Hydrodenitrogenations in tetrahydrofuran THF are catalyzed by the metal on C versus the presulfided metal on C and use of Hversus H HS atmospheres Table 8 13 . For all of the metals examined running the hydrodenitrogenation with the catalyst under an initial 80 psi 20 psi H HS atmosphere gives higher yields of caprolactam than use of a strictly Hatmosphere. This trend holds irrespective of whether the catalyst has been presulfided. The highest hydrodenitrogenation yields Table 8 13 are achieved when the catalyst is presulfided and run under an initial 80 psi 20 psi H HS atmosphere. Nonetheless the best yields Table 8 13 are lower than the 65 yield of caprolactam achieved using presulfided Pt on C under an 80 psi 20 psi H HS atmosphere.

Hydrodenitrogenation of aminocaprolactam to caprolactam by Au on C are also tested according to the following reaction.

Direct conversion of L lysine into caprolactam is attempted Table 15 . This is tested using presulfided Pt on C 1 mol in dried EtOH under an initial 90 psi 10 psi H HS. After heating at 250 C. for 8 h L lysine is found to be converted into caprolactam in 15 yield.

The examples and other embodiments described herein are exemplary and not intended to be limiting in describing the full scope of compositions and methods of this technology. Equivalent changes modifications and variations of specific embodiments materials compositions and methods may be made within the scope of the present technology with substantially similar results.

