---

title: Modification of polymers having aromatic groups through formation of boronic ester groups
abstract: The C—H bond of pendant aromatic groups such as commercial polystyrenes with three types of tacticities (syndiotactic, isotactic, atactic) undergo catalyzed functionalization with boron reagents. A boronic ester group formed on the polymer in the polystyrene was further converted to hydroxy and arene via oxidation and coupling reactions, respectively. These functionalizations proceeded without significantly affecting the molecular weight of starting polymer and the functional concentrations could be easily controlled by changing the ratio of boron reagent to monomer unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07671157&OS=07671157&RS=07671157
owner: Board of Regents of the Nevada System of Higher Education on Behalf of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas
number: 07671157
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080402
---
This Application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 921 459 filed 2 Apr. 2007.

The present invention relates to polymers polymer chemistry and the modification of properties of polymers by chemical reactions with the polymer.

Polyolefins are the most ubiquitous commercial polymer in the world owing to their unique chemical and physical properties processability and low production cost. Controlled introduction of specific functionality into nonpolar polyolefins can yield a new class of polymeric materials with enhanced abilities such as adhesion to polar surfaces. Synthesis of such a material i.e. a functionalized polyolefin however remains an important challenge in polymer chemistry. Syndiotactic polystyrene sPS is a good example of a stereoregular polyolefin that needs further improvement. sPS exhibits intriguing properties such as a high degree of crystallinity high melting temperature 270 C. polymorphic phase behavior good chemical resistance and enhanced mechanical functioning at high temperature. Despite these physical properties sPS has drawbacks that must be overcome if it is to have wide commercial application. These drawbacks are a an excessively high melt processing temperature 300 C. that is close to the polymer degradation temperature b poor compatibility with polar materials owing to lack of functionality and c poor impact strength. To address these problems synthesis of functionalized sPS was attempted either by introducing a second monomer in copolymerization or through postfunctionalization of sPS. Unfortunately as with other transition metal catalyzed stereospecific olefins polymerizations syndiospecific copolymerization of styrene with functionalized styrenes generated polymers with significantly lower molecular weights and or lower yields compared to those afforded by styrene homopolymerization. J K. H. Kim W. H. Jo S. Kwak K. U. Kim J. Kim 1999 20 175 J. Y. Dong E. Manias T. C. Chung 2002 35 3439. .

Owing to significant progress in the development of homogeneous metallocene polymerization catalysts a variety of polyolefins with differing tacticities and molecular weights can be conveniently accessed as starting materials. Thus postfunctionalization of such a diverse spectrum of polyolefins is an attractive alternative approach for the synthesis of functionalized polymers with different microstructures and molecular weights. Most postfunctionalizations of polyolefin are based on a free radical initiated reaction however which does not control over the molecular weight of polymer. Instead competitive side reactions such as chain scission chain transfer and coupling reactions which can alter the molecular weight and physical properties of the functionalized polymer occur under the reaction conditions. The high melting point and high crystallinity of sPS make its controlled functionalization even more challenging. Thus homogeneous postfunctionalization of sPS is rare. So far only a handful of examples of sPS modification using reactive carbon intermediates radical or carbocation under heterogeneous condition have been reported. The following references describe functionalized sPS via postfunctionalization of sPS but not via C H boronation of an aromatic ring. J. Y. Dong E. Manias T. C. Chung 2002 35 3439 E. B. Orler R. B. Moore 1994 27 4774 H. M. Li J. C. Liu F. M. Zhu S. A. Lin 2001 50 421 E. B. Orler D. J. Yontz R. B. Moore 1993 26 5157 Y. Gao S. Li H. Li X. Wang 2005 41 2329 S. Liu A. Sen 2000 33 5106. . The homogeneous functionalization method would be the preferred route however because the heterogeneous methods afford less control of uniform functionalization especially on a large scale.

Recently transition metal catalyzed C H activation functionalization has emerged as a new methodology in polyolefin functionalization. Unlike traditional free radical initiated polymer modification this new method yielded functionalized polyolefins with negligible changes in molecular weight from the starting polymers. Unfortunately most of these examples relied on amorphous polyolefins of relatively low molecular weight as starting polymers and required the preparation of special metal catalysts. When semicrystalline polyolefins were used for the postfunctionalization via activation of C H bonds their functionalization efficiencies were low because of the low turnover numbers of the catalysts. Herein we report a highly efficient aromatic C H bond activation functionalization of high molecular weight polystyrenes with different tacticities syndiotactic sPS atactic aPS isotactic iPS using a commercially available iridium catalyst Scheme 1 . We have found that the iridium catalyzed borylation of aromatic C H bonds can incorporate a high level of boronate ester group up to 41 mol without disrupting the molecular weights of the parent polymers. To our knowledge this example is the first of crystalline polyolefin functionalization that provides a high degree of functionalization without any disruption in polymer chain length i.e. there is complete absence of chain scission or coupling of polymer chains . We also demonstrate herein that the aryl boronate ester group of sPS can serve as a versatile synthetic precursor for a range of functionalized sPS products.

The C H bond of commercial or proprietary polymers having either pendant or backbone aromatic groups such as polystyrenes or polysulfones can undergo catalyzed e.g. Ir catalyzed functionalization of with three types of tacticities syndiotactic isotactic atactic with boron reagents. The boronic ester group formed on the aromatic group on the polymer e.g. polystyrene can be further converted to hydroxy OH and functionalized arene e.g. CH Z where Z silane siloxy halide hydroxy amine carbonyl nitrile sulfonyl phosphine alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl reactive functionalities e.g. ethylenically unsaturated groups acryloyl epoxy and the like via oxidation and coupling reactions e.g. Suzuki Miyaura coupling respectively. These functionalizations proceeded without significantly affecting the molecular weight of starting polymers and their functional concentrations can be easily controlled by changing the ratio of boron reagent to monomer unit.

An existing polymer having at least some pendant or backbone aromatic groups is reacted to form a boronic ester on pendant or backbone aromatic groups. These pendant or backbone aromatic groups with boronic ester functionalities are themselves useful with their modified properties or become useful reagents for further modification of polymer properties.

The aromatic polymers useful in the process of the present invention include any polymeric material containing aromatic functionality either in a pendant side group or in a main group. Preferably the Mis at least 20 000 and preferably at least 40 000. There may not be any functional upper limit but more preferred upper limits are to less than one million less than 500 000 to less than 400 000 to less than 250 000 and to less than 120 000 number average molecular weight M . Pendant aromatic refers to a structure wherein the aromatic group is a substituent on the polymer backbone and not embedded therein. Preferred aromatic groups are Caryl groups especially phenyl groups. Homopolymers may have any stereoregular structure including syndiotactic isotactic or atactic polymers. In addition copolymers containing these aromatic monomers including random pseudo random block and grafted copolymers may be used. For example copolymers of vinyl aromatic monomers and comonomers selected from nitrites acrylates acids ethylene propylene maleic anhydride maleimides vinyl acetate and vinyl chloride may also be used such as styrene acrylonitrile styrene alpha methylstyrene and styrene ethylene. Block copolymers of vinyl aromatic monomers and conjugated dienes such as butadiene isoprene may also be used. Examples include styrene butadiene styrene isoprene styrene butadiene styrene and styrene isoprene styrene copolymers. Further examples of block copolymers may be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 845 173 4 096 203 4 200 718 4 201 729 4 205 016 3 652 516 3 231 635 and 3 030 346. Blends of polymers including impact modified grafted rubber containing aromatic polymers may also be used. Aromatic main chain polymers refer to a structure wherein the aromatic group is located in the main chain of polymer repeating unit. Examples include but not limited to polysulfones polyesters polycarbonates polyamides polyimides polyphenylene sulfide polyphenylene oxide polybenzimidazole poly ether ketone and polyarylenes.

As an example of modification of aromatic side chain polymer the iridium catalyzed reactions of commercial polystyrenes sPS aPS iPS with pinacolborane HBpin or bis pinacolato diboron Bpin in cyclooctane at 150 C. produced the corresponding borylated polymers PS Bpin shown in Scheme 1. Among the catalysts screened IrCl COD dtbpy COD 1 5 cyclooctadiene dtbpy 4 4 di tert butyl 2 2 bipyridine Ir OMe COD dtbpy IrCl COE dtbpy COE cyclooctene and Cp Rh CMe IrCl COD dtbpy Ir OMe COD dtbpy and IrCl COE dtbpy were comparatively effective catalysts for the C H activation borylation of polystyrenes with Bpinat 150 C. Although all three iridium catalysts screened were found active for the C H activation of aromatic rings of polystyrenes we found IrCl COD dtbpy was the most active catalyst at 150 C. and demonstrated here for the C H activation borylation of sPS which has a number average molecular weight M of 127 kg mol and a PDI of 2.64. Because sPS has poor solubility in common organic solvents the C H functionalization was conducted in the inert high boiling point solvent cyclooctane at an elevated temperature 150 C. to achieve a homogeneous condition. However other aromatic polymers that have good solubility in organic solvent cycloalkane linear alkane tetrahydrofuran dimethylformamide etc can be functionalized with the iridium catalyst even at room temperature. The arene C H activation borylation is known to occur selectively only at the aromatic ring of arenes so this functionalization would allow generation of borylated polystyrenes of different tacticities syndiotactic isotactic atactic in a single step using the commercially available catalyst. Although we did not identify the ratio of regioisomers of borylated products the borylation was assumed to give sterically controlled statistical isomers of polymers as in the case of the aromatic C H borylation of small arenes e.g. a mixture of meta and para substituted isomers .

The isolated PS Bpin products were characterized using various spectroscopic methods. H NMR spectra of all PS Bpins syndiotactic isotactic atactic gave rise to a distinctive new resonance at 1.2 1.3 ppm 1.35 ppm for sPS Bpin in CDCl 1.20 ppm for aPS Bpin and iPS Bpin in CD for the four methyl groups of Bpin. The two resonances from CHand CH of the polystyrene main chain maintained a ratio of 2 1 confirming that the methylene and methine groups of polystyrene were intact during the borylation. In the case of sPS Bpin the presence of a single resonance for an aromatic quaternary carbon at 145.2 ppm in the C NMR spectrum indicates that the functionalized polymer preserved high syndiotacticity. In addition the C NMR spectrum of sPS Bpin showed new sharp resonances at 83.5 ppm and 24.9 ppm for the Bpin group. C NMR attached proton test APT and distortionless enhancement by polarization transfer DEPT spectroscopies of sPS Bpin confirmed that the two resonances corresponded to the methyl and the quaternary carbon atoms of the Bpin structure. The B NMR spectrum of sPS Bpin showed a broad peak at 30 ppm which is a typical resonance for the aryl Bpin moiety.

The mol of the borylated styrene repeating unit was calculated from the H NMR spectrum by integrating the ratio of the methylene proton of the polystyrene main chain and methyl groups of Bpin. These results are summarized in Tables 1 and 2. Note that the efficiency of functionalization in Tables 1 and 2 is defined as the percentage of borylated styrene units relative to boron atoms added. Regardless of the tacticity of polymers all polystyrenes could be efficiently functionalized with varying numbers of boryl groups. Except for the functionalizations of sPS that use a very low ratio of added Bpinto monomer unit ratios 

To investigate whether any changes in average molecular weights and molecular weight distributions occurred during the C H activation borylation process we subjected a model aPS material with narrow molecular weight distribution to the standard borylation condition an Mof 26.3 kg mol and a PDI of 1.00. With these model polymers we can easily detect side reactions that will induce any chain cleavage or chain coupling during the borylation. As shown in Table 1 entries 8 12 an increase in the ratio of Bpin monomer resulted in an Mincrease owing to the incorporation of more Bpin group in aPS Bpin. The PDI values always remained at 1.01 however even with the incorporation of 33 mol of Bpin group Table 1 entry 12 . These data clearly indicate that the iridium catalyzed C H activation borylation process does not induce any deleterious side reactions that lead to chain cleavage or chain coupling of polymers. To our knowledge such a high level of postfunctionalization of commercial high molecular weight polyolefin that maintains the fidelity of the narrow polydispersity of starting polymer is unprecedented. The molecular weight data of sPS Table 1 entries 1 6 and iPS Table 1 entry 13 were measured using high temperature size exclusion chromatography in 1 2 4 trichlorobenzene at 160 C. These data were also consistent with those of aPS. The iridium catalyzed C H borylation can also be accomplished with pinacolborane HBpin as the boron reagent Table 2 . Although the efficiency of functionalization with HBpin was lower than that of Bpin the borylation using various ratios of HBpin to styrene repeating unit produced 1 10 mol Bpin functionalized sPS and aPS. Again both Mand PDI after postfunctionalization were unchanged from those of the starting polymers.

The boronic ester group can be transformed to other boron functionality such as B OH and BFK. To explore the possibility of introducing a polar group into nonpolar polystyrenes sPS Bpin entries 1 7 and aPS Bpin entry 10 were oxidized with NaOH HOin THF to give the corresponding hydroxylated polymers sPS OH and aPS OH respectively Scheme 2 . The hydroxyl group of sPS OH could be easily identified using IR spectroscopy by a strong O H stretching band at 3477 cm. The complete disappearance of resonances of the Bpin group in the C NMR spectrum of sPS OH demonstrated successful oxidation in the polymer chain. The molecular weight changes from the borylation oxidation sequence which was studied in depth with model aPS were negligible aPS M 26.3 kg mol PDI 1.00 aPS Bpin M 28.9 kg mol PDI 1.00 aPS OH M 27.2 kg mol PDI 1.01 highlighting the mildness of this protocol. Aryl boronic ester is a versatile synthon for C C bond formation via Suzuki Miyaura cross coupling. Because a variety of functional groups such as silane halide phosphine hydroxy amine carbonyl nitrile sulfonyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl etc are available for aryl halides Ar X where X Cl Br I CFSO triflate CH CH SO tosylate and these groups can be tolerated in Suzuki Miyaura cross coupling reaction the coupling reaction of polymer Bpin and aryl halide can introduce many examples of functional group at the end of aromatic side chain of the polymer. Here we illustrate an example of the coupling reaction of the polymer Bpin groups with aryl bromide containing silane group for convenient characterization of the polymer product Scheme 2 . With 3 mol of palladium catalyst the aryl bromide coupled with PS Bpin to form an arene functionalized polystyrene. The H NMR spectra of the coupled products showed the complete disappearance of Bpin groups in PS Bpin and the appearance of a t butyldimethylsilyl group with a similar concentration. The molecular weight parameters of the Suzuki coupling product which was studied in depth with the model aPS were again found to be unchanged from those of the starting polymer aPS Bpin M 27.8 kg mol PDI 1.00 aPS Ar M 31.9 kg mol PDI 1.02 .

The thermal properties of unfunctionalized sPS sPS Bpin and sPS OH are displayed in . Although sPS has high crystallinity the melting point and crystallinity of functionalized sPS are heavily dependent on the size and concentration of the functional group on the polymer. Until 5 mol incorporation of the boryl group the sPS Bpin showed a systematic lowering of both melting point and crystallinity as more Bpin groups were attached. If more than 6 mol of the Bpin group was present in the polymer the melting point of sPS Bpin disappeared because the bulky Bpin group disrupted crystallization. The glass transition temperature of sPS Bpin was however unchanged 100 C. compared to that of the parent polymer. After oxidation sPS OH recovered crystallinity because the smaller hydroxyl group did not interfere with the crystallization process as the bulky Bpin group did. Thus the sPS Bpin containing 5.9 mol Bpin group entry 2 of Table 1 lost crystallinity completely. However the sPS OH with 9.9 mol OH group from oxidation of entry 3 of Table 1 still preserved high crystallinity 36 which was close to the crystallinity of unfunctionalized sPS 40 and showed a slightly lower melting point 267 C. . Overall the borylation oxidation process can yield polar hydroxy group functionalized sPS that has a slightly lower melting point without changing molecular weight of the parent polymer.

Functionalization of commercial polystyrenes with three types of tacticity syndiotactic isotactic and atactic was accomplished with the iridium catalyzed borylation of arene C H bonds. The functionalization allowed the introduction of a boronate ester group without negatively affecting the molecular weight and the tacticity of the starting polymer. The concentration of the boryl group can be easily controlled with as low as 0.5 mol of iridium catalyst loading by changing the ratio of boron reagent to monomer unit regardless of the tacticity of the polymer. The boryl group in the polystyrene was further converted to other functional groups such as hydroxyl and functionalized arene via oxidation and Suzuki Miyaura coupling respectively. This new method to install functional groups into crystalline polystyrenes will expand the commercial possibilities of these important polyolefins such as in polymer blends recoverable polymer catalyst and adhesion with other materials.

sPS M 127 kg mol PDI 2.64 from LG Chemical Ltd. Daejeon S. Korea model atactic polystyrenes of two different molecular weights M 26.3 kg mol PDI 1.00 from Aldrich Chemical Co. dtbpy IrCl COD HBpin hydrogen peroxide tetrahydrofuran sodium hydroxide and chloroform were reagent grade and used without further purification. Bpinwas obtained from Frontier Scientific Co. and used after recrystallization from hexane. Cyclooctane was dried using sodium and benzophenone distilled under reduced pressure and stored in a nitrogen filled glove box. To improve the solubility of iPS M 309 kg mol 90 isotactic PDI 6.42 from Aldrich Chemical Co. in the borylation medium the following procedure was performed. One gram of the polymer was placed in a two neck round bottom flask and then the flask was evacuated and backfilled with nitrogen three times. 1 2 Dichlorobenzene 30 mL was added to this flask and refluxed at 180 C. under nitrogen for 30 min to dissolve all of the iPS. The solution was cooled to 140 C. and precipitated in cold methanol 300 mL . The precipitate was filtered and dried under vacuum at 60 C.

sPS H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.30 2H CH 1.81 1H CH 6.55 2H H 7.06 3H H C H NMR 100 MHz CDCl 40.54 CH 43.84 CH 125.60 Ph C4 127.60 Ph C2 6 127.86 Ph C3 5 145.19 Ph Cl .

In a nitrogen filled glove box a mixture of syndiotactic polystyrene 260 mg boron reagent different ratios described in Tables 1 and 2 iridium catalyst 3 mol iridium based on the amount of boron reagent ligand 3 mol based on the amount of boron reagent cyclooctane 1.7 g and a magnetic stirring bar were placed into a vial and capped with a Teflon lined septum. The vial was removed from the glove box and placed in an oil bath at 150 C. for 6 h. After cooling to room temperature the mixture was dissolved in chloroform 30 mL and filtered through a short plug of silica to remove the catalyst. The filtrate was concentrated by rotary evaporator and precipitated by adding cold methanol. The precipitated solid was filtered and dried under vacuum at 60 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.30 2H CH 1.35 s BOCCH 1.80 1H CH 6.54 2H H 7.05 3H H 7.56 H Hfrom Ph Bpin H NMR 400 MHz CD 1.15 and 1.19 BOCCH 1.49 2H CH 2.08 1H CH 6.07 2H H 7.05 3H H C H NMR 100 MHz CDCl 24.88 BOCCH 40.53 CH 43.83 CH 83.51 BOCCH 125.60 Ph C4 127.66 Ph C2 6 127.85 Ph C3 5 144.60 Cfrom Ph Bpin 145.18 Ph Cl 148.79 Cfrom Ph Bpin B NMR 128.26 MHz CDCl 30.36 br .

sPS Bpin 100 mg from entry 3 of Table 1 was dissolved in THF in a 250 ml flask by applying gentle heating and then cooled to room temperature. A mixture of aqueous NaOH 1 mL of 3 M and 30 HO 1 mL was added slowly to the polymer solution at room temperature. The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 12 h. The solution was concentrated with a rotary evaporator and a mixture of methanol and water 40 mL 10 mL was added. The heterogeneous suspension was stirred for 20 min and filtered. The collected white solid was washed with water 3 10 mL and then with methanol 3 5 mL . The solid was dried under vacuum at 60 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.30 2H CH 1.80 1H CH 6.54 2H H 7.05 3H H C H NMR 100 MHz 1 1 2 2 tetrachloroethane dat 70 C. 40.74 CH 43.83 CH 125.59 Ph C4 127.63 Ph C2 6 127.90 Ph C3 5 137.47 HO p Ph Cl 145.16 Ph Cl 147.23 HO m Ph Cl 153.02 HO p Ph C4 154.86 HO m Ph C3 FT IR film v 3477 cm O H .

In a nitrogen glove box a mixture of sPS Bpin 50 mg entry 3 of Table 1 4 bromo phenoxy tert butyldimethylsilane palladium catalyst dichloro 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II 3 mol based on the amount of boron concentration in sPS Bpin sodium tert butoxide 3 equivalent to the amount of boron concentration in sPS Bpin toluene 1 mL and a magnetic stirring bar were placed into a vial and capped with Teflon lined septum. The vial was removed from the glove box and placed in an oil bath at 100 C. for 22 h. After cooling the mixture was dissolved in chloroform 15 mL and filtered through a short plug of silica. The filtrate was concentrated using a rotary evaporator and precipitated by adding cold methanol. The white precipitated solid was filtered and dried under vacuum at 60 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 0.24 s Si C C CH 1.02 s Si CH C C 1.30 2H CH 1.80 1H CH 6.54 2H H 7.06 3H H C H NMR 100 MHz CDCl 4.35 Si H C CH 18.26 Si CH CH 25.74 Si CH C H 40.54 CH 43.84 CH 120.16 C 125.59 Ph C4 127.67 Ph C2 6 127.85 Ph C3 5 128.00 C 134.61 C 145.19 Ph C1 154.99 C .

Various processes have been proposed in the prior art for boronation of aromatic hydrocarbons. For example processes are known for lithionation halogenation or boronation after converting to a trifurate of a benzene ring examples of which include 1 a process using aryl halide or aryl trifurate and pinacol diboron P. Rocca et al. J. Org. Chem. 58 7832 1993 2 a process involving reaction with boric ester following lithionation of an aromatic ring and 3 a process involving reaction with boric ester following reaction of aryl halide with magnesium A. R. Martin Y Yang Acta. Chem. Scand. 47 221 1993 .

In addition known examples of direct boronation of benzene include 4 a process that uses a metal halogen exchange followed by reaction with B OCH T. R. Kelly et al. Tetrahedron Lett. 35 7621 1994 P. D. Hobbs et al. J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun. 923 1996 T. R. Hoye M. Chen J. Org. Chem. 61 7940 1996 5 a process that uses an Ir based catalyst Iverson C. N. Smith M. R. III. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 121 7696 1999 Cho J. Y Tse M. K. Holmes Science 295 305 2002 Ishiyama T. Takagi J. Ishida K. Miyaura N. Anastasi N. R. Hartwig J. F. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 124 390 2002 6 a process that uses an Re based catalyst Chen. H. Hartwig J. F. Agnew. Chem. Int. Ed. 38 3391 1999 and 7 a process that uses an Rh based catalyst Chen H. Hartwig J. F. Science 287 1995 2000 Cho J. Y Iverson C. N. Smith M. R. III. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 122 12868 2000 Tse M. K. Cho J. Y Smith M. R. III. Org. Lett. 3 2831 2001 Shimada S. Batsanov A. S. Howard J. A. K Marder T. B. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 40 2168 2001 .

However there are few examples of boronation reactions of aromatic heterocyclic compounds with the only known example being a process in which silver acetate is allowed to act on indole followed by reaction with borane followed additionally by hydrolysis K. Kamiyama T. Watanabe M. Uemura J. Org. Chem. 61 1375 1996 and the disclosure of Published US Patent Application No. 20050148775 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The catalysts used herein may be iridium based catalysts Ir catalysts Re catalysts and Rh catalysts. The iridium containing catalyst used in the present invention may be any such catalyst provided it is a compound that contains iridium Ir the iridium containing catalyst is preferably a catalyst represented by the following general formula IrABn composed of a cation portion represented by Ir an anion portion represented by A and an alkene portion represented by B. More preferably the anion portion represented by A is a chlorine atom alkoxy group hydroxyl group or phenyloxy group which may or may not have a substituent B is an alkene containing compound such as COD 1 5 cyclooctadiene COE 1 cyclooctene or indene and n is 1 or 2. Specific examples include IrCl COD IrCl COE Ir OMe COD Ir OH COD and Ir OPh COD . The amount used is 1 100000 to 1 mole and preferably 1 10000 mole to 1 10 mole with respect to bis pinacolate diboron or pinacol borane.

Although there are no particular restrictions on the ligand in these catalysts provided it is a Lewis base having the ability to coordinate to an iridium containing catalyst it is preferably a bidentate Lewis base compound and more preferably a compound represented with a partial structure of bipyridine which may or may not have symmetric or asymmetric substitution such as hydrogen atom linear or branched Calkyl group linear or branched Calkoxy group nitro group cyano group halogenated Calkyl group halogen atom carbamoyl group Cacyl group Calkoxycarbonyl group or amino group which may or may not have a substituent or in which substitution at position 6 and position 6 may include a hydrogen atom linear or branched Calkyl group linear or branched Calkoxy group nitro group cyano group halogenated Calkyl group halogen atom carbamoyl group Cacyl group Calkoxycarbonyl group or amino group which may or may not have a substituent specific examples of which include trialkyl phosphines such as triphenyl phosphine and tributyl phosphine ethylenediamines such as tetramethylethylenediamine and ethylenediamine bipyridines such as 4 4 di t butyl bipyridine 2 2 bipyridine 4 4 di methoxy bipyridine 4 4 bis dimethylamino bipyridine 4 4 dichlorobipyridine and 4 4 dinitrobipyridine and 1 10 phenanthroline and preferable specific examples including bipyridines such as 4 4 di t butyl bipyridine 2 2 bipyridine 4 4 di methoxybipyridine 4 4 bis dimethylamino bipyridine 4 4 dichlorobipyridine and 4 4 dinitrobipyridine. The amount used is 1 100000 mole to 1 mole and preferably 1 10000 mole to 1 10 mole with respect to bis pinacolate diboron or pinacolborane.

There are no particular restrictions on the solvent used in the present invention provided it does not have an effect on the reaction and examples of such solvents include hydrocarbons such as octane pentane heptane and hexane amides such as dimethylformamide and dimethylacetoamide pyrrolidones such as N methyl 2 pyrrolidone ketones and sulfoxides such as acetone ethyl methyl ketone and dimethylsulfoxide aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene and mesitylene nitriles such as acetonitrile ethers such as diisopropyl ether tetrahydrofuran 1 4 dioxane 1 2 dimethoxyethane and anisole and alcohols such as methanol ethanol propanol ethylene glycol and propylene glycol with hydrocarbons such as octane pentane heptane and hexane being preferable. The reaction is carried out within a temperature range of 0 to 180 C. and preferably 10 to 150 C.

The location of aromatic ring in a polymer chain does not affect the reaction. Not only pendant aromatic rings in polymers e.g. polystyrene but also polymers containing aromatic and heteroaromatic rings in polymer main chain e.g. polysulfone or side polymer chains yet not pendant as in graft polymers graft copolymers block polymers block copolymers and the like can be functionalized using this new methodology iridium catalyzed C H borylation of aromatic ring of polymers . For example the iridium catalyzed C H bond borylation of commercial Udel polysulfone PSF of Scheme 3 with different molar ratios of Bpinto polymer repeating unit was performed in tetrahydrofuran THF solvent and provided the corresponding borylated polysulfone product PSF Bpin of Scheme 3 . By changing the stoichiometry of Bpinrelative to the polymer repeating unit up to 186 mol of attached Bpin group relative to the polymer repeating unit i.e. 1.86 Bpin group per polysulfone repeating unit of could be achieved.

The technology described herein provides polymers that are useful in at least the same types of commercial products where related classes of polymers are presently used today. AS non limiting examples of commercial uses especially for the polystyrene classes of polymers are uses as a Active filtration media in chromatographic systems b Recoverable recyclable polymer metal catalyst systems c Polymer supports either as polymer reagents and polymer catalysts in organic reactions d Additives to polymer blends e Membrane materials for fuel cells biofuels production and water purification and f Precursor polymers that can be used for creation of various functionalized aromatic polymers.

