---

title: System for providing strategies for increasing efficiency of data centers
abstract: A system is described for providing strategies for increasing the efficiency of data centers. The system may include a memory, an interface, and a processor. The memory may store a historical dataset, a profile and an initial configuration of a data center. The interface may communicate with a user. The processor may identify the historical dataset and receive the profile and the initial configuration from the user. The user may select a data center initiative and a reduction factor. The processor may determine a subset of the historical dataset that describes data centers with a similar profile as the initial data center. The processor may process the initial configuration, the subset of the historical dataset and the selected initiative to determine a recommended configuration. The recommended configuration may be able to achieve the selected reduction in energy use. The processor may provide the recommended configuration to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08395621&OS=08395621&RS=08395621
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08395621
owner_city: 
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20080212
---
The present description relates generally to a system and method generally referred to as a system for providing strategies for increasing efficiency of data centers and more particularly but not exclusively to providing strategies for increasing efficiency of data centers which may reduce energy costs and carbon emissions.

The costs and carbon impact of energy use are becoming increasingly important to consumers organizations and governments. Organizations may be reassessing their energy use in response to impending regulation high costs and public perception. An organization s data center may account for a significant portion of the organization s energy use. Data centers may account for ten to fifteen times the electricity use of a typical office building on a square foot basis. The energy costs attributable to a data center can run upwards of one million dollars per month and the carbon impact of a data center may be significant. Organizations may be able to reduce their energy costs and carbon impact by migrating to energy efficient data centers.

A system for providing strategies for increasing efficiency of data centers may include a memory an interface and a processor. The memory may be connected to the processor and the interface and may store a historical dataset a profile and an initial configuration of a data center. The interface may be connected to the memory and the processor and may communicate with a user. The processor may identify the historical dataset and receive the profile and the initial configuration from the user. The user may select a data center initiative and a reduction factor. The processor may determine a subset of the historical dataset that describes data centers with a similar profile as the initial data center. The processor may process the initial configuration the subset of the historical dataset and the selected initiative to determine a recommended configuration. The recommended configuration may be able to achieve the selected reduction in energy use. The processor may provide the recommended configuration to the user.

Other systems methods features and advantages will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the embodiments and be protected by the following claims and be defined by the following claims. Further aspects and advantages are discussed below in conjunction with the description.

A system and method generally referred to as a system may relate to providing strategies for increasing efficiency of data centers and more particularly but not exclusively providing strategies for increasing efficiency of data centers which reduce energy costs and carbon emissions associated with data centers. The principles described herein may be embodied in many different forms.

The system may provide a user with a decision support tool for creating energy saving roadmaps for an organization s data center strategy. The energy saving roadmaps may incorporate both operations and facilities solutions. Statistical analysis may be used to leverage historical data from case studies of similar data centers to the configuration of the user s data center. The system may suggest a data center configuration for the user based on the configuration of similar data centers in the historical data.

The system may allow users to create intelligent strategy roadmaps by suggesting energy saving initiatives as well as scheduling when the initiatives are implemented. The roadmaps may be evaluated for robustness by comparing the roadmaps against multiple user configured scenarios. The scenarios may represent user specified forecasts of electrical costs performance capabilities and capacity demand. For each scenario the system may generate the forecasted outcomes for carbon output cost and electrical demand. The system may display the forecasted outcomes on a graph.

The system may compare a user s strategy roadmap against strategy roadmaps stored in the system s database. The system may assign a relative rating to the user s strategy roadmap indicating how the strategy roadmap compares with other strategy roadmaps in the system. The system may provide a relative rating for both the financial and environmental impact of the user s strategy roadmap. The system may also provide an overall assessment of the financial and environmental impact of the user s strategy roadmap. The system may display a graph comparing the energy savings achieved by the user s strategy roadmap to the energy savings achieved by the strategy roadmaps in the database.

The system may evaluate a user s strategy roadmap and suggest improvements in the organization s data center s facilities and or equipment. The suggested improvements may lessen the environmental impact of the data center and or may provide financial savings on energy and or equipment costs.

The system may allow an organization to efficiently manage the carbon impact of their workplace technology such as desktops laptops monitors etc. The system may enable an organization to determine the carbon impact of their workplace technology the impact of the hazardous materials found in their workplace technology and the amount of trees destroyed by papers use.

The system may include one or more users A N a service provider and an administrator . The users A N may be responsible for maintaining upgrading and or developing one or more data centers. The service provider may provide an application to the users A N allowing the users A N to develop energy saving strategies or green strategies for their data centers. A green strategy may be a data center strategy which may reduce the carbon emissions of a data center may reduce the amount of energy consumed by a data center or may reduce the cost associated with operating a data center. The administrator may be a person or an automated process and may be responsible for maintaining a database of historical data center implementation data. The historical data may be used to a recommend data center initiatives to the users A N based on real world data.

In operation the service provider may provide the user A A with an interface allowing the user A A to input a profile of their data center and the current configuration of their data center. The data center profile information may describe the location of the data center the size of the data center the industry the data center supports and or any general characteristics describing the data center. The current configuration of the data center may include information describing the inventory of information technology IT equipment of the data center and information describing the site infrastructure or facilities supporting the data center. The inventory of equipment may include the equipment that provides the computing capability to the data center such as servers storage network equipment or generally any computer equipment used in a data center. The user A A may provide specific equipment information such as the specific models or may provide a more general description of the equipment such as a high end server. The site infrastructure information may include information describing the facilities that support the proper functioning of the IT equipment such as lighting systems cooling delivery power delivery or generally any support equipment that supports the IT equipment.

The system may include a database of pre filled data center profile information such as specific data center equipment information and or specific data center facilities information which the user A A may be able to browse or search. The equipment information may include specific data describing data center equipment such as the make and model of the equipment the energy rating of the equipment the processing power of the equipment or generally any data describing data center equipment. The administrator may maintain the database and may update the database as new information regarding data center equipment becomes available. The administrator may manually update the database or the database may be automatically updated by a data feed.

Once the user A A has provided the inventory of their data center the user A A may begin to develop a data center strategy. The user A A may select one or more energy saving initiatives for their data center. The initiatives may represent one or more methods for increasing the energy efficiency of a data center. Thus implementing new initiatives may change the power estimate of the data center s equipment over a period of time. For example one initiative may focus on the consolidation of servers while another may focus on the virtualization of servers. The consolidation of servers may refer to reducing the number of servers necessary to accomplish the required computing power while the virtualization of servers may refer to pooling resources and allocating them as needed to specific tasks allowing data centers to meet their requirements with fewer physical resources. The goal of each initiative may be to reduce the energy used by the data center and the energy used by the data center may be reduced by impacting how efficiently the inventory of equipment is utilized and impacting what equipment is used. Thus the energy saving initiatives may provide the user A A with guidance on the rate at which new equipment should be acquired and the type of equipment to acquire. For example a server virtualization initiative may change the rate at which new servers must be acquired while moving to energy efficient servers may change the types of servers acquired.

Alternatively or in addition the system may recommend initiatives to the user A A based on the current configuration of the data center of the user A A. The system may recommend equipment that provides the same capability as the current configuration but subject to lower energy use or operations costs. For example the system may recommend more efficient servers to meet a similar central processing unit CPU and memory requirements or a more efficient cooling system to deliver the same tonnage of cold air. The system may be able to search across all possible configurations in the data center profile dataset. The data center profile dataset may be pre sorted to speed the search.

For example if a new type of cooling delivery is projected to be mature based on industry guidelines the system may recommend the user A A adopts this initiative during that time period. In another example some initiatives may require other initiatives to be in place before coming viable. For example the virtualization initiative may require that standardization initiative occurs first. The system may recommend a strategy to implement all of the perquisite initiatives first such as the standardization initiative and then to implement the final initiative such as the virtualization initiative.

The system may process the data center information of the user A A and the initiatives selected by the user A A to generate recommended future configurations of the data center of the user A A such as estimates of equipment inventory required by the data center. The estimates may be a range of values a distribution of values or generally any statistical calculation of values such as an average or a standard deviation.

The recommended configurations may be based on a historical data center profile dataset maintained by the administrator . The historical data center profile dataset may include information regarding the equipment and performance of existing data centers. The system may identify historical data center data relating to both the data center profile of the user A A and the initiatives selected by the user A A. The system may process the data center profile data to generate estimate values for the recommended data center configuration of the user A A. The user A A may accept the estimate values of the system or may modify the configuration based on their own assessment.

The calculation of the estimate values may weigh the historical data center data based on characteristics the historical data center profiles share with the profile of the data center of the user A A. The data center characteristics may include size industry type such as research and development or production and geography. For example the efficiency of a cooling solution may be related to a data center s size power density and geography. So initiatives implementing efficient cooling solutions may weigh more heavily the values originating from historical data centers data sharing size power density and geography characteristics with the data center profile of the user A A. Thus in addition to assisting the user A A with estimating values the system may assist the user A A in weighing multiple initiatives based on potential energy savings as well as confidence from past historical implementations.

The system may use several different calculations for weighing the data center data. For example let vbe the vector representing the characteristics of data center i. A sample vector for a data center which is 1000 square feet in size is used in the technology industry for research and development in northern California may be v 1000 sq ft Technology R D Northern CA . For data center and a specified initiative I the weight for data center i 0 may be a function f v v I .

The function f may implement any statistical algorithm capable of identifying a subset of the historical dataset. For example f may implement a strict filter f v v I 0 1. Alternatively or in addition the following equations may be used for ranges distributions and statistics 

Alternatively or in addition the data may be quantized into n bins f v v I 1 2 . . . n which also may be used for ranges distributions and statistics such as to show a different range distribution and statistics for different quantization bins. Alternatively or in addition the function may map to a continuous value f v v I 0. For example assuming the size is the only field and v 1000 sq ft. then a proportional function f v v I v vmay be used for statistics where the contribution from vis proportional to the weight given by f.

In order to accurately measure the effects of the data center strategy the user A A may provide forecasts or trend scenarios on the change in electricity costs the change in capacity demands of the data center the change in price of carbon offsets the change in performance demands of the data center over a period of time and the change in carbon output per kWh generated. The system may apply the trend scenarios provided by the user A A to the data center configuration selected by the user A A. The system may generate one or more graphs demonstrating the effects of the forecasted changes on the data center configuration over a period of time. The user A A may use the information provided in the graphs to further refine the configuration of their data center.

Alternatively or in addition the system may automatically analyze the data center configuration identified by the user A A to determine whether the data center configuration may be modified to increase the energy and or cost saving efficiencies. The system may recommend modifications to the configuration which may result in more efficient energy use.

Once the user A A has determined their preferred data center configuration the system may rate the data center configuration based on other configurations stored in the database. The rating may be based on the energy savings achieved by the data center configuration and or the cost savings achieved by the data center configuration. The system may further provide an assessment of the initiatives implemented by the user A A from both a financial and environmental impact.

The user A A may use the system to view the effects of multiple waves of data center initiatives. For example the user A A may wish to implement a consolidation initiative over a period of time followed by a virtualization initiative over a different period of time. The system may allow the user A A to define the periods of time over which the initiatives may be implemented. The system may generate graphs or other visualization data showing the energy and cost savings effects of the multiple data center initiatives. Alternatively or in addition the system may recommend the most efficient order to implement the initiatives.

Alternatively or in addition the system may be used to determine the environmental impact of the hazardous materials found in the data center equipment the amount of trees destroyed for paper use by the data center or the amount of carbon generated by flights taken between multiple data centers. The amount of trees destroyed for paper use may be impacted by using electronic documents. The amount of hazardous materials in the equipment may be reduced by reducing the equipment in the data center. The carbon generated by flights taken between multiple data centers may be reduced by consolidating the multiple data centers or by locating the data centers in close geographic proximity to one another.

Alternatively or in addition the system may be used in conjunction with the IT equipment used by an organization in their workplace such as offices. In this instance data center may refer to the workplace IT equipment of the organization such as desktops laptops printers etc. In this instance the energy use may be calculated similar to the data center however in regards to the workplace IT equipment. The impact of the energy use may be reduced by changing the way the IT demand is met such as the energy use per unit of equipment may be reduced and or new technology may be used to reduce the total impact to costs and the environment. The energy use per unit of equipment may be reduced by turning on power save functionality to automatically turn off unused equipment. New technology such as thin clients electronic documents and video conferencing may be used to reduce the total impact. In the case of thin clients organizations may phase out desktops and provide a mainframe environment with thin client terminals and a super computer mainframe. The use of thin clients may reduce the number of times new equipment needs to be purchased. The use of electronic documents may reduce wasted paper and printers however the use of electronic documents may present a trade off due to the need for storage in the data center to store them. Video conferencing may be used to reduce travel costs and carbon emissions associated with air travel.

The network environment may include one or more users A N an administrator a service provider server a third party server a data store networks and one or more web applications standalone applications mobile applications A N which may collectively be referred to as client applications.

Some or all of the service provider server and the third party server may be in communication with each other by way of network . The administrator may use a web application A to interface with the service provider server and maintain the historical data center data. Alternatively or in addition the administrator may use a mobile application N or a standalone application B to interface with the service provider server .

The networks may include wide area networks WAN such as the Internet local area networks LAN campus area networks metropolitan area networks or any other networks that may allow for data communication. The network may include the Internet and may include all or part of network network may include all or part of network . The networks may be divided into sub networks. The sub networks may allow access to all of the other components connected to the networks in the system or the sub networks may restrict access between the components connected to the networks . The network may be regarded as a public or private network connection and may include for example a virtual private network or an encryption or other security mechanism employed over the public Internet or the like.

The web applications standalone applications and mobile applications A N may be connected to the network in any configuration that supports data transfer. This may include a data connection to the network that may be wired or wireless. Any of the web applications standalone applications and mobile applications A N may individually be referred to as a client application. The web application A may run on any platform that supports web content such as a web browser or a computer a mobile phone personal digital assistant PDA pager network enabled television digital video recorder such as TIVO automobile and or any appliance or platform capable of data communications. The web application A may support a rich internet application implemented with the ADOBE FLEX technologies.

The standalone application B may run on a machine that may have a processor memory a display a user interface and a communication interface. The processor may be operatively connected to the memory display and the interfaces and may perform tasks at the request of the standalone application B or the underlying operating system. The memory may be capable of storing data. The display may be operatively connected to the memory and the processor and may be capable of displaying information to the user B B. The user interface may be operatively connected to the memory the processor and the display and may be capable of interacting with a user B B. The communication interface may be operatively connected to the memory and the processor and may be capable of communicating through the networks with the service provider server . The standalone application B may be programmed in any programming language that supports communication protocols. These languages may include SUN JAVA C C ASP SUN JAVASCRIPT asynchronous SUN JAVASCRIPT or ADOBE FLASH ACTIONSCRIPT ADOBE FLEX amongst others.

The mobile application N may run on any mobile device that may have a data connection. The data connection may be a cellular connection a wireless data connection an internet connection an infra red connection a Bluetooth connection or any other connection capable of transmitting data.

The service provider server may include one or more of the following an application server a mobile application server a data store a database server and a middleware server. The service provider server may exist on one machine or may be running in a distributed configuration on one or more machines.

The service provider server and client applications A N may be one or more computing devices of various kinds such as the computing device in . Such computing devices may generally include any device that may be configured to perform computation and that may be capable of sending and receiving data communications by way of one or more wired and or wireless communication interfaces. Such devices may be configured to communicate in accordance with any of a variety of network protocols including but not limited to protocols within the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP protocol suite. For example the web application A may employ the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP to request information such as a web page from a web server which may be a process executing on the service provider server .

There may be several configurations of database servers application servers mobile application servers and middleware applications included in the service provider server . The data store may be part of the service provider server and may be a database server such as MICROSOFT SQL SERVER ORACLE IBM DB2 SQLITE or any other database software relational or otherwise. The data store may store the historical data center information. The application server may be APACHE TOMCAT MICROSOFT IIS ADOBE COLDFUSION or any other application server that supports communication protocols. The middleware application may be any middleware that provides additional functionality between the application server and the clients A N such as a PHP HYPERTEXT PREPROCESSOR PHP .

The networks may be configured to couple one computing device to another computing device to enable communication of data between the devices. The networks may generally be enabled to employ any form of machine readable media for communicating information from one device to another. Each of networks may include one or more of a wireless network a wired network a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a direct connection such as through a Universal Serial Bus USB port and the like and may include the set of interconnected networks that make up the Internet. The networks may include any communication method by which information may travel between computing devices.

In operation the user A A may access the service provided by the service provider through the web application A and the network . The web application A may download a client side application from the service provider server using ADOBE FLASH PLAYER . The web application A may request data from the middleware application such as a PHP server. The PHP server may query the information from the data store and communicate the information to the web application A. The user A A may interact with the client side application through the web application A. The data may be passed between the web application A and the database via the PHP server. The majority of the calculations may be performed on the service provider server although some calculations may be completed on the web application A in order to speed up response times.

Alternatively or in addition the client applications A N may be able to function in both an online and an offline mode. The client applications A N may include a locally cached data store for offline operations. The local and remote data store may synchronize when online operations are available. In one example the system may use ADOBE AIRP to implement the online and offline functionality.

The network environment may represent an alternative server side architecture to the network environment . The network environment may include one or more users A N an administrator a service provider server a third party server a data store an application middle tier a math statistics layer a feed engine a data center monitoring systems networks and one or more web applications standalone applications mobile applications A N which may collectively be referred to as client applications.

In the network environment external data sources may provide historical data center data to the service provider server via the feed engine . The historical data center data may then be stored in the data store . The historical data center data may include any current or past known data regarding existing data centers. The feed engine may also be used to receive any other data relevant to the system such as real time information on electricity prices carbon per kwh generated etc. The external data sources may be Internet based such as a third party server . Alternatively or in addition the historical data center data may be received from the data center monitoring systems . The data center monitoring systems may also be third party servers and may provide real time visibility into data center operations. The math statistics layer may be an application used to perform advanced modeling statistics and mathematics calculations. The math statistics layer may allow for more sophisticated analytics to be applied with the application.

At block the user A A may provide their initial data center growth forecasts and energy cost forecasts. The users A A may create one or more trends with the one or more sets of projected values. The system may display a visual representation of the projected energy costs and carbon emissions of the current data center configuration based on the forecasts of the user A A.

The system may also provide the user A A with expert suggestions for the forecasts such as expert suggestions of the increase in the cost of electricity or expert suggestions for predicting the efficiency of server performance as measured in million instructions per second MIPS Watt. The expert predictions may be retrieved from government reports such as reports including data and analysis conducted by government agencies. Alternatively or in addition the expert predictions may be retrieved from industry experts such as experts who may provide their expectations for the forecasts which may affect their business. The industry experts may be vendors and or analysts such as GARDNER IDC and or FORRESTER. Alternatively or in addition the expert predictions may be retrieved from ACCENTURE experts who may create their own pre configured projects to make the knowledge available to the users A N.

Alternatively or in addition the user A A may be able to view the aggregated forecast or trend data across all of the other users B N. The user A A may be able to filter the results in order to receive a more detailed customized projection. The aggregate forecast data may be filtered by the geography of the users B N the industry of the users B N or the expertise of the users B N. The system may also provide the user A A with a level of confidence data. The level of confidence data may allow the user A A to determine the number of other users B N whose data is represented in the aggregated forecast data. The level of confidence may be reported to the user A A by displaying a count per filter combination. The count per filter combination may allow the user A A to see the number of other users B N whose data is sourced in the aggregated forecast data. Alternatively or in addition other statistical techniques may be used to provide the user A A with confidence levels and or other measures of potential error. In this case the system may show a range of initiatives on the screen or an average value with confidence intervals where some percentage of the inputs from the users B N are captured.

At block the user A A may identify the time frame for implementing the data center improvement strategy. The system may use the timeframe to determine the projected energy needs and costs of the data center at that time. At block the user A A may select an initiative for the current wave of the data center strategy. The initiative may be a strategy to affect two types of change within the data center reducing the amount of equipment to achieve the same capacity or reducing the efficiency per equipment. A strategy may affect one or both of the types of change.

For example in regards to the equipment such as servers storage network etc. there may be initiatives focusing on virtualization efficiency and or consolidation. The virtualization strategy may guide the user A A to reduce the number of physical servers needed to maintain the same number of applications. A virtualization initiative may be affected by the projected growth of the data center. For example the user A A might select the virtualization initiative and may set the reduction factor to v given as a percentage. The reduction factor v may be the percentage of servers the user A A wishes to reduce their total servers by. For example if the user A A indicates a growth of a over the time period where a is given as a percentage and an initial server count of x then due solely to growth the number of servers needed for the next wave may be 1 a x. If the user A A selects a reduction factor of v then the number of servers x should decrease to y 1 v 1 a x in the next wave. The calculation may incorporate the projected growth and the reduction factor to determine the total number of servers in the wave through the equation y 1 v 1 a x.

The number of servers needed in the subsequent wave may be calculated by reapplying this equation to the growth rate of the wave. For example let the server count from the previous wave y be denoted as x the virtualization factor of the subsequent wave denoted as v the growth factor over the period between the previous wave and the subsequent wave denoted as a and the suggested server count of the subsequent wave denoted as y . The number of servers needed in the subsequent wave without accounting for the virtualization factor may be x 1 v . The growth from the previous wave to the subsequent wave may be accounted for by multiply by 1 a . The virtualization factor of the subsequent wave may be accounted for my multiplying by 1 v . The suggested server count of the subsequent wave y may then be calculated as y 1 v 1 V 1 a x .

The efficiency initiative may focus on making all aspects of the data center more efficient. For example energy efficient power supplies in servers may reduce the power needed by each physical machine. The virtualization initiative may focus on operationally identifying the optimum utilization to run the servers at which may reduce both the number of machines needed and the total energy used.

In regards to the facilities such as the power delivery systems the lighting systems the cooling systems etc. there may be initiatives focusing on power delivery improvements lighting improvements cooling center optimization efficiency and or rack cooling. A power delivery initiative may focus on buying more efficient uninterruptible power supplies UPS or more efficient power delivery units PDU . Lighting initiatives may focus on upgrading the bulbs to compact fluorescent lamps CFLs or adding sensors to automatically turn off lights when they are not in use. The cooling system initiatives may be separated into cooling generation and cooling delivery. The cooling generation may be impacted by free cooling or more efficient chillers. The cooling delivery may be impacted improved by room alignment packaged rack cooling and fan efficiency.

If the user A A selects more than one initiative the system may suggest an order in which the initiatives may be implemented. The order may be optimized relative to the scenarios for the energy costs the carbon emissions per kWh the capacity demands such as computing demands storage capacity demand and or cooling and power delivery capacity or other factors. For example the user A A may choose to minimize the energy use subject to a bound on meeting the compute capacity. The order may then be determined by ranking initiatives that provide the lowest energy use subject to a constraint on delivering the compute capacity.

Alternatively or in addition the user A A may maximize the compute capacity within the data center subject to a bound on the energy use. The order may then be determined by ranking the initiatives that provide the largest capacity improvements subject to a bound on energy use. Alternatively or in addition the user A A may optimize over a cost function of trading off the various factors energy use cost carbon emissions and or capacity. A method for determining the optimum order may be to compute over all possible arrangements and then present the optimum. The number of initiatives may be in the hundreds and such a method should be feasible.

If at block the user A A selects an initiative the system may move to block otherwise the system moves to block . At block the system may process the data center profile of the user A A and the historical data center data to determine ranges of energy use reduction that have been achieved by similar data centers for the initiative. The system may display to the user A A the typical and range of reductions that have been achieved. At block the user A A may select a reduction factor which best fits their data center profile. At block the system may project the impact of implementing this reduction to the equipment and facilities of the data center. The projection may account for all forecasted values such as energy costs and demand growth. The system may suggest a data center configuration best suited to implement the selected reduction and any selected initiatives.

Alternatively or in addition the system may allow the user A A to view real time estimates showing relevant planning metrics as the user A A selects initiatives and or updates their data center configuration. The metrics may include the energy use in kWh the carbon footprint the implementation and operation cost the capability and capacity of the configuration such as the CPU cycles storage volume tones of cooling delivered power delivered or generally any metric that may be of interest to the user A A.

At block the user A A may update the data center configuration data with the suggested values of the system . Alternatively or in addition the user A A may disregard the suggestion of the system and insert values determined by their own assessment. At block the user A A may identify whether they wish to plan more waves of data center planning strategies. If at block the user A A wishes to plan out another wave the system moves to block otherwise the system moves to block . At block the user A A may identify the timeframe of the next wave and then the system may move to block .

At block the system may process all the waves created by the user A A to generate the projected results of the waves on the carbon emissions cost and energy use of the data center. A more detailed description of the processing of the waves may be found in . The system may generate one or more graphs showing the projected values of these variables over the course of the planned timeframe.

If the user A A has identified multiple initiatives per wave and an order of the initiatives within the waves the system may provide a schedule of planned implementation dates of the wave plans. Alternatively or in addition the user A A may manually specify the timing of the wave deployment. The schedule may be optimized relative to the scenarios for electricity cost carbon emissions per kWh capacity demands or other factors. The plans may also be optimized based on operational expenses capital expenses or other measures. For example to minimize capital expenditures CAPEX the system may suggest timing of initiatives in a manner that leverages the savings garnered from the previous waves to finance the cost of later waves. This may require the forecasted cost of the electricity as an input. Alternatively or in addition to lower operational expenditure OPEX constraint to an annual budget the system may suggest a timing of initiatives to coincide with changes in energy prices.

At block the system may display the graphs and projected results to the user A A. The system may also provide the user A A with a rating and assessment of their data center strategy. The rating may be based on the strategies and reduction factors of the other users B N.

Alternatively or in addition the system may allow the user A A to create multiple data center instances. For each data center instance the user A A may specify separate initiatives waves or generally any data associated with the data centers. The user A A may be able to manage the strategy planning across multiple data centers so as to ensure that the entire cross data center strategy is optimized. The user A A may be able to plan the consolidation strategy of multiple data centers into one. The system may allow the user A A to view the as is or current configuration of the data centers as well as view the projections of their planned changes across all of their data centers. The information may be used to support other business activities and or decisions of the user A A.

The system may calculate a general estimate of the power consumed by the equipment by splitting the servers in to a number of N classes. For instance three classes may be generic volume mid range and high end servers. For each class c there may be an average estimate of power use p. The data center configuration may be analyzed to determine the quantity of servers that exist for each class type k. The final power rating may be P pk.

Alternatively or in addition the system may calculate a detailed estimate of the power consumed by the equipment based on a specific distribution of servers rather than using generic models. For example the system may determine a quantity of machines per manufacturer make and model where the power rating or average power is maintained per make and model. Alternatively or in addition the system may specify an exact configuration for each machine that includes the random access memory RAM central processing unit CPU drives and utilization. The power estimates may be determined by retrieving the actual power consumption of each component of each machine or may be determined by estimating the power use of the RAM CPU drives etc.

For any method of determining the power consumption of the equipment the system may leverage information stored in the data store based on historical data vendor sources and or industry sources. For each machine the power use may be estimated based on the vendor released power rating on the back plate the averages or maximums released by the vendor or industry sources based on measurements and or as a function of the utilization based on vendor or industry source such as Standard Performance Evaluation Corporation SPEC benchmarks. Using the function of utilization based on vendor or industry source a lookup table and inputs of the utilization may be used to determine the estimate of energy use.

At block the system may calculate the energy consumption of the data center infrastructure including lighting power delivery and or cooling. The energy consumption of the data center infrastructure may be calculated using the standard industry approach elaborated by the environmental protection agency EPA . The approach may rely on two inputs P and PUE. P may refer to the total power rating of the equipment described above and PUE may refer to the power usage effectiveness ratio. The PUE may be defined as the ratio between the total data center power over the total equipment power. For example if the data center uses P power from a power grid the PUE would be equal to P P. The ratio may establish the overhead needed by the facility. A PUE of 1 may be the theoretical optimal ratio for all facilities as all of the power delivered to the data center is used to power the equipment.

The PUE may be measured or estimated for the entire data center facility. Alternatively or in addition the PUE may be calculated by determining the PUE of the various components of the data center such as lighting power delivery and or cooling delivery and then combining the PUEs to determine the PUE of the data center as a whole. For example the PUE total for the data center may be equal to PUE 1 PUE PUE PUE PUE. The additional 1 may for PUEthe ratio of power drawn by the IT equipment over the power used by the IT equipments. Alternatively or in addition the power used by a generator humidifier and or the effects of the room configuration on the facilities power consumption may also be used in the facilities calculation.

The power used by the components of the data center may be calculated individually. For example to determine the PUEthe system may determine the square footage of the room S the lighting efficiency in watts square feet L and the percentage of the time the lights are on . may be equal to 1 if the data center has no sensors and the lights are on constantly. These values may be provided by the user A A. Once these variables are determined the PUEmay be calculated by the equation PUE S L P.

The power used by the power delivery system may be determined by identifying the transformer efficiency of the data center . The user A A may provide the transformer efficiency to the system . The tare loss and the load loss may also be incorporated into the transformer efficiency value. The PUEmay then be calculated as PUE 1 .

The power used by the UPS system may be determined by identifying the UPS efficiency . The user A A may provide the UPS efficiency. The tare loss and the load loss may also be incorporated into the UPS efficiency determination. The PUEmay then be calculated as PUE 1 .

The power used by the HVAC system may be determined by identifying the cooling requirements. The user A A may identify the chiller plant efficiency kW ton the pump efficiency kW ton and the fan efficiency kW ton . The tare loss and load loss for chiller pump and fans may also be used in the determination. The power used by the HVAC system PUE may then be calculated as PUE 0.283 . The constant 0.283 may be the conversion factor for converting from kW ton to kW kW of IT power.

At block the system may determine the total energy consumption for the wave by adding the energy consumption of the equipment the energy consumption of the facilities and generally any other energy used by the data center for the wave. The total energy consumption may represent the power drawn by the data center equipment and the power drawn by the facilities such as the site infrastructure needed for support. The total energy consumption may be calculated by multiplying PUE times P.

At block the system may determine the forecasted energy cost for the period of time covered by the wave. The forecasted energy cost may be based on estimates provided by third parties or estimates entered directly by the user A A. At block the system may multiply the cost of the energy by the total power consumption of the wave to determine the total cost for the wave. At block the system may add the cost estimate of the current wave to the total cost estimate. At block the system may determine whether the user A A has identified any additional waves. Alternatively or in addition the system may also determine the forecasted carbon effect per wave.

If the user A A has identified additional waves the system may move to block otherwise the system moves to block . At block the system retrieves the identified data center data for the next wave. The system then returns to block and repeats the calculations for the next wave. Once all of the waves have been accounted for the system moves to block . At block the system displays the graphs of the projected reductions to the user A A. At block the system may display the assessment and rating of the projected reductions to the user A A. The assessment and rating may be determined by analyzing the reductions achieved by the users B N. The system may also display the amount of time it will take for the energy savings achieved by the recommended configuration to offset the costs of improving the equipment and or facilities.

At block the system may identify the first component of the data center equipment such as a server. At block the system may search the historical dataset for a component that is more efficient either cost wise or carbon emissions wise than the component currently used in the data center. Alternatively or in addition the system may attempt to consolidate multiple components into one more efficient component. At block the system may determine whether a more efficient component exists capable of replacing one or more components in the current configuration.

If at block the system determines that a more efficient component exists the system may move to block . At block the system may add the more efficient component to a recommended configuration. If at block the system determines that a more efficient component does not exist then the system may move to block . At block the system may add the current component to the recommended configuration. At block the system may determine whether there are additional components to analyze in the data center inventory. If at block the system determines there are additional components then the system may move to block . At block the system may identify the next component to analyze and may repeat the steps of determining whether a more efficient component exists.

After analyzing each of the components in the data center inventory and generating a recommended configuration the system may move to block . At block the system may determine the cost of the recommended configuration and the carbon output of the recommended configuration. If the recommended configuration is identical to the initial configuration of the user A A then the system may report to the user A A that there are no optimizations to their data center configuration.

At block the system may display a comparison of the current configuration and the recommended configuration to the user A A. The comparison may display to the user A A the cost savings and the carbon emissions reductions achieved by the current data center configuration of the user A A and those achieved by the recommended configuration. At block the system may display the future forecasted energy and cost scenarios of the current configuration of the user A A and the configuration recommended by the system . At block the system may offer the user A A the option to purchase the equipment necessary to upgrade their data center to the recommended configuration. The service provider may sell the equipment directly to the user A A or the service provider may refer the user A A to a retailer. If the service provider refers the user A A to a retailer the service provider may receive a referral fee or a percentage of any purchases made by the user A A.

In operation the user A A may click on the tabs to change the screen displayed to the user A A. For example by clicking on the trend tab the system may display a trend screen to the user A A. The user A A may enter a profile of their organization in the client information subsection and a profile of the project the data center may be used for in the project subsection . The user A A may load a saved data center configuration in the existing data center table by selecting a data center name and clicking on the load data center button .

In operation the details tabset may allow the user A A to enter specific information regarding the basics servers storage network and facilities of their data center. The screenshot may correlate to the basic data center information. The user A A may enter the name of the profile into the snapshot name field . The user A A may input the date the profile of the data center was taken into the snapshot date field . The user A A may input comments into the comments field . The user A A may identify the data center tier referring to the level of redundancy needed in the classification selector . The user A A may enter the size of the data center in square feet in the size field and the age of the data center in the age field . The size and age of the data center may directly affect the facilities needs of the data center. The user A A may select an energy provider from the energy provider selector . The energy selector may be populated with energy providers who service the geographic area identified by the user A A in the state region selector of . The service provider may automatically populate the price field when the user A A selects an energy provider in the energy provider selector . If the value populated in the price field is incorrect the user A A may manually change the value. The user A A may exit to the general profile screenshot by clicking on the close button .

In operation the user A A may enter generic server information in the server distribution subsection . The user A A may choose to enter generic server information when they are unsure of the exact server models in the data center. The system may use average values from the historical data center information to determine the power consumption and processing power of the generic server types. The user A A may enter the number of generic high end servers in the high end servers number field and the utilization of the generic high end servers in the high end servers utilization field . Similarly the user A A may enter the number of mid range servers in the mid range servers number field and the average utilization of the mid range servers in the mid range servers utilization field . Lastly the user A A may enter the number of generic volume servers in the generic volume servers field and the average utilization of the generic volume servers in the volume servers utilization field .

In the server initiatives subsection the user A A may view selected initiatives in the initiatives table and may remove an initiative from the initiatives table by clicking on the remove initiative button . The user A A may change the reduction factors associated with the initiatives by clicking on an initiative in the initiatives table and entering a new reduction factor in the reduction field . In the projections subsection the service provider may display the projected number of servers required for the user A A to implement the initiatives selected in the initiatives table . The projections may be based on the values the user A A entered in the server distribution subsection the initiatives selected by the user A A in the initiatives table and the historical data center data. The service provider may utilize historical data center data pertaining to data centers with a similar profile as the data center of the user A A to populate the projections subsection . The user A A may click on the general detail button to change the screen from the general view to the detailed view.

In operation the user A A may create the server distribution of their data center in the server distribution table . The user A A may enter specific information regarding each server such as the manufacturer model quantity utilization and the estimated watts server. Alternatively or in addition the data store may contain the data associated with each server. In this instance the user A A may enter the manufacturer and model of a server to retrieve the stored information associated with the server. The user A A may add a new server by clicking on the add new server button may view the server details by clicking on the view server details button or may remove the selected server by clicking on the remove selected server button .

The service provider may process the server information and data center profile information provided by the user A A to populate the projections subsection . The server totals table may indicate the total number of servers and the estimated kilo Watts per hour kWh used by the servers. The projections table may show the user A A the server configuration necessary to achieve their selected initiatives.

In operation the user A A may create a profile of their storage information in the screenshot . The storage select table may display one or more storage types that the user A A may add to their storage profile. The storage types may have been previously added to the data store by the administrator . The storage data may include the manufacturer the model the chipset the base power draw the max Watts disk and the typical Watts disk of the storage type. The user A A may input the number of disks of the storage type in the number of disks field and the user A A may add the storage type to the storage profile by clicking the add selected storage button . The current storage table may display the current storage profile of the data center of the user A A. The user A A may remove a storage type from the storage profile by clicking on the remove selected storage button .

In operation the user A A may use the room details subsection to create a profile of the room housing their data center. The type of lighting may be identified in the lighting type selector whether the data center has sensors to shut off the lights when not in use may be selected with the sensors selector and the percentage of the time the lights are active may be selected in the percent of time active selector . The number of racks may be identified in the number of racks field the average servers per rack may be identified in the average servers per rack field the average power density per rack may be identified in the average power density per rack and the layout may be identified with the layout selector . The UPS efficiency may be selected with the UPS efficiency selector the number of UPS units may be identified in the number of UPS units field the redundancy of the UPS may be selected with the UPS redundancy selector and the efficiency of the transformer may be selected with the transformer efficiency selector .

In operation the user A A may identify the number of HVAC units in the data center with the number of HVAC units field and the HVAC redundancy with the HVAC redundancy selector . The user A A may input the chiller plan efficiency in kilowatts ton in the chiller plan efficiency field . The pump efficiency may be inputted in the pump efficiency field and the fan efficiency may be inputted in the fan efficiency field . The total efficiency may be displayed in the total efficiency field .

The user A A may use the initiatives subsection to implement various initiatives focused on making the facilities of the data center more energy efficient. The user A A may select one or more initiatives from the initiative table and click on the implement button . When the user A A clicks on the implement button the service provider may update the suggested value column with the values suggested for each of the fields to achieve the selected initiatives.

In operation the user A A may use the electrical cost tab to forecast the change in the cost of electricity over a future time period the capacity planning tab may be used to forecast the change in growth needs of the data center over a period of time and the carbon per kilowatt hour tab to forecast the change in the amount of carbon emissions emitted for a kilowatt hour of energy use over a period of time. The user A A may add a new scenario using the ad scenario button . The user A A may select futures market data which may be indicative of the aggregate scenarios created by the users B N by clicking on the futures market button . The user A A may select pre configured scenarios such as scenarios stored in the data store by using the pre configured scenarios button . The user A A may view the forecasted results of the scenarios by using the view data button . The user A A may select a scenario to view the forecasted results of in the scenarios table . The selected scenario may be highlighted in the scenarios table . The user A A may view the specific changes of the variables over the period of time in the scenario details table and the user A A may delete the selected scenario by clicking the delete scenario button .

The user A A may view the forecasted effects of the scenarios on the energy costs of the data center via the forecast line of the forecast graph . The user A A may view the point in time information by sliding a pointer over any particular moment in time on the forecast line .

In operation the user A A may select a capacity planning scenario from the scenario table . The selected scenario may be highlighted in the scenario table when selected by the user A A. The user A A may view the detailed change in values over the period of time in the scenario details table . The user A A may view the forecasted effects of the selected scenario via the forecast line of the forecast graph . The user A A may view the point in time information by sliding a pointer over any particular moment in time on the forecast line .

In operation the user A A may create one or more waves describing the data center strategies of the user A A. The user A A may input the implementation date and strategy for each wave. The user A A may view the created waves in the wave table . A new wave plan may be added by clicking on the add a new wave plan button and the selected wave may be deleted by clicking on the delete selected wave button . The user A A may edit the selected wave by clicking on the edit selected wave button . The selected wave summary subsection may display the wave name the implementation date and the comments of the selected wave . The user A A may view the timeframe of the implementation of the waves in the timeline . There may be a wave date for each of the waves listed in the wave table .

In operation the details tabset may allow the user A A to enter specific information regarding the basics servers storage network and facilities of this wave of their data center implementation. The screenshot may correlate to the basic data center information. The user A A may enter the name of the profile into the snapshot name field . The user A A may input the date the profile of the data center was taken into the snapshot date field . The user A A may input comments into the comments field . The user A A may identify the number of tiers the data center uses in the classification selector . The user A A may enter the size of the data center in square feet in the size field and the age of the data center in the age field . The size and age of the data center may directly affect the facilities needs of the data center. The user A A may select an energy provider from the energy provider selector . The service provider may automatically populate the price field when the user A A selects an energy provider in the energy provider selector . If the value populated in the price field is incorrect the user A A may manually change the value. The user A A may exit to the wave planning screenshot by clicking on the close button .

In operation the user A A may enter generic server information in the server distribution subsection . The user A A may enter generic server information when the user A A is unsure of the exact server models in the data center. The system may use average values from the historical data center information to determine the power consumption and processing power of the generic server types. The user A A may enter the number of generic high end servers in the high end servers number field and the utilization of the generic high end servers in the high end servers utilization field . Similarly the user A A may enter the number of mid range servers in the mid range servers number field and the average utilization of the mid range servers in the mid range servers utilization field . Lastly the user A A may enter the number of generic volume servers in the generic volume servers field and the average utilization of the generic volume servers in the volume servers utilization field .

In the server initiatives subsection the user A A may view selected initiatives in the initiatives table and may remove an initiative from the initiatives table by clicking on the remove initiative button . The user A A may change the reduction factors associated with the initiatives by clicking on an initiative in the initiatives table and entering a new reduction factor in the reduction field . In the projections subsection the service provider may display the projected number of servers required for the user A A to implement the initiatives selected in the initiatives table . The projections may be based on the values the user A A entered in the server distribution subsection the initiatives selected by the user A A in the initiatives table and the historical data center data. The service provider may utilize historical data center data pertaining to data centers with a similar profile as the data center of the user A A to populate the projections subsection . The user A A may click on the general detail button to change the screen from the general view to the detailed view.

In operation the user A A may enter generic server information in the server distribution subsection . The user A A may enter generic server information when the user A A is unsure of the exact server models in the data center. The system may use average values from the historical data center information to determine the power consumption and processing power of the generic server types. The user A A may enter the number of generic high end servers in the high end servers number field and the utilization of the generic high end servers in the high end servers utilization field . Similarly the user A A may enter the number of mid range servers in the mid range servers number field and the average utilization of the mid range servers in the mid range servers utilization field . Lastly the user A A may enter the number of generic volume servers in the generic volume servers field and the average utilization of the generic volume servers in the volume servers utilization field .

In the server initiatives subsection the user A A may view selected initiatives in the initiatives table and may remove an initiative from the initiatives table by clicking on the remove initiative button . The user A A may change the reduction factors associated with the initiatives by clicking on an initiative in the initiatives table and entering a new reduction factor in the reduction field .

In the projections subsection the service provider may display the projected number of servers required for the user A A to implement the initiatives selected in the initiatives table and the reduction factor selected in the reduction factor field . The projections may be based on the values the user A A entered in the server distribution subsection the initiatives selected by the user A A in the initiatives table and the historical data center data. The service provider may utilize historical data center data pertaining to data centers with a similar profile as the data center of the user A A to populate the projections subsection . The user A A may click on the general detail button to change the screen from the general view to the detailed view.

In operation the user A A may select one or more of the lines to view on the graph by selecting the selectors . The graph may demonstrate the effects of each scenario on the wave plans created by the user A A. The user A A may use the point in time information to view the data values on the graph at a particular period in time. The user A A may view the effects of the forecast scenarios on the cost of the energy by clicking on the cost tab on the electricity consumption by clicking on the electricity tab and a general assessment by clicking on the assessment tab .

In operation the service provider may rate the data center strategies of the user A A against the data center strategies inputted by the other users B N. The efficiency assessment subsection may display the rating of the data center s efficiency in the result value . A summary of the efficiency rating may be displayed in the summary field and the calculated five year total cost reduction may be displayed in the total cost reduction value . The service provider may calculate the total cost reduction value by calculating the cost of operating the initial data center configuration of the user A A over the next five years and subtracting the calculated cost of operating the configuration of the data center planned through the use of the system .

The recommendations subsection may provide the user A A with further recommendations on how to increase the efficiency of their data center. The service provider may calculate the additional energy savings if the user A A were to implement any additional initiatives. The initiatives that result in the highest projected energy savings may be recommended to the user A A in the summary field .

The carbon neutral subsection may display the carbon emissions of the data center configuration selected by the user A A. The planned CO2 reduction value may display the projected five year total reduction in carbon emissions. The CO2 emissions value may display the total projected carbon dioxide emissions of the data center over the next five years. The emissions summary may display the summary of the emissions output of the selected data center configuration of the user A A. The price per carbon credit value may be a projected carbon credit price or may be obtained from futures market data third party data government data or generally any data provided by a third party server . The cost to offset value may be calculated by multiplying the tons of carbon emissions by the price per ton carbon credit. The value of reductions may display the carbon credit savings achievable by implementing the selected data center configuration.

In operation the user A A may create one or more waves describing the data center strategies of the user A A. The user A A may input the implementation date and strategy for each wave. The user A A may view the created waves in the wave table . A new wave plan may be added by clicking on the add a new wave plan button and the selected wave may be deleted by clicking on the delete selected wave button . The user A A may edit the selected wave by clicking on the edit selected wave button . The selected wave summary subsection may display the wave name the implementation date and the comments of the selected wave . The user A A may view the timeframe of the implementation of the waves in the timeline . There may be a wave date for each of the waves listed in the wave table .

The user A A may click on the optimize selected wave plan button to request that the system optimize the selected wave plan . The system may analyze the data center configuration associated with the selected wave plan and determine whether any of the equipment and or facilities may be modified to include more efficient equipment facilities. The system may recommend modifications to the data center configuration of the selected wave plan .

The user A A may click on the optimize timeline button to request the system to optimize the order in which the wave plans are performed. Some initiatives may require other initiatives to be in place before becoming viable. For example the virtualization initiative may require the standardization initiative to occur first. The system may optimize the timeline by suggesting an order of wave plans to ensure all of the prerequisite initiatives are fulfilled before implementing the next wave plan.

The screenshot may include a profile tab a trend tab a strategy tab a results tab a report tab save button a electrical cost tab a capacity planning tab a carbon per kilowatt hour tab an adjust subsection a preconfigured scenarios subsection and a forecast graph . The adjust subsection may include an add scenario button a futures market button a pre configured scenarios button and a view data button . The pre configured scenarios subsection may include a government reports selector a industry experts selector and a data center experts selector . The forecast graph may include a first forecast line a second forecast line and a third forecast line .

In operation the user A A may use the electrical cost tab to forecast the change in the cost of electricity over a future time period the capacity planning tab may be used to forecast the change in growth needs of the data center over a period of time and the carbon per kilowatt hour tab to forecast the change in the amount of carbon emissions emitted for a kilowatt hour of energy use over a period of time. The user A A may add a new scenario using the ad scenario button . The user A A may select futures market data which may be indicative of the aggregate scenarios created by the users B N by clicking on the futures market button . The user A A may select pre configured scenarios such as scenarios stored in the data store by using the pre configured scenarios button . The user A A may view the forecasted results of the scenarios by using the view data button .

The user A A may select one or more pre configured scenarios from the pre configured scenarios subsection . The user A A may select one or more scenarios generated from government reports using the government reports selector . The government reports may include EPA reports Department of Energy DOE reports and Energy Information Administration EIA reports. The user A A may select one or more pre configured scenarios based on industry experts in using the industry experts selector . The industry experts may include natural gas experts coal experts nuclear experts petroleum experts and or alternative fuels experts. The user A A may select one or more preconfigured scenarios created by data center experts using the data center experts selector . The data center experts may include the Green Grid Alliance and or the Lean Green.

The user A A may view the forecasted effects of the pre configured scenarios on the energy costs of the data center via the forecast lines of the forecast graph . The graph may display a separate forecast line for each scenario chosen by the user A A.

The screenshot may include a profile tab a trend tab a strategy tab a results tab a report tab save button a electrical cost tab a capacity planning tab a carbon per kilowatt hour tab an adjust subsection a futures market subsection and a forecast graph . The adjust subsection may include an add scenario button a futures market button a pre configured scenarios button and a view data button . The futures market subsection may include a geography selector a region selector an energy type selector a confidence field and a add to chart button . The forecast graph may include a first forecast line and a second forecast line .

In operation the user A A may use the electrical cost tab to forecast the change in the cost of electricity over a future time period the capacity planning tab may be used to forecast the change in growth needs of the data center over a period of time and the carbon per kilowatt hour tab to forecast the change in the amount of carbon emissions emitted for a kilowatt hour of energy use over a period of time. The user A A may add a new scenario using the ad scenario button . The user A A may select pre configured scenarios such as scenarios stored in the data store by using the pre configured scenarios button . The user A A may view the forecasted results of the scenarios by using the view data button .

The user A A may view an aggregate of the forecasts of the other users B N by using the futures market subsection . The user A A may filter the other users B N to view specific aggregate forecast data by using the geography selector the region selector and the energy type selector . The values selected with the selectors may be used to filter the users B N whose data centers share the same characteristics as the data center of the user A A. The confidence field may display the number of users who share the chosen characteristics. If the value of the confidence field is low the aggregate data may be unreliable. The user A A may view the aggregate of the forecast data of the filtered users B N by clicking on the add to chart button .

The user A A may view the forecasted effects of the aggregate forecast data on the energy costs of the data center via the forecast lines of the forecast graph . The graph may display a separate forecast lines for the futures market data and for the default scenario data.

In operation the user A A may use the screenshot to view the wave plan data associated with multiple data centers. The available data centers may be displayed to the user A A in the data center table . The user A A may select one or more data centers from the data center table . The user may view the selected data center by clicking on the view selected data center button . The user A A may remove the selected data center by clicking on the remove selected data center button . The user A A may compare multiple data centers by selecting multiple data centers from the data centers table and clicking on the compare selected data centers button .

The system may display the data associated with the selected data center in the selected data center summary . The selected data center summary may display data associated with the selected data center such as name implementation date location power consumption carbon emission and operating cost. The user A A may view the wave plans of all of the data centers in the data center graph . The data center graph may enable the user A A to properly coordinate the scheduling of the wave plans of multiple data centers.

In the server initiatives subsection the user A A may view the initiatives in the initiative table . The user A A may view the selected initiative in the initiatives table and may remove the selected initiative from the initiatives table by clicking on the remove initiative button . The user A A may change the reduction factor associated with the selected initiative by entering a new reduction factor in the factor field and clicking the set factor button . The user A A may view the savings achieved by similar data centers implementing the selected initiative in the similar savings data . The system may determine the similar data centers savings using the historical data center data or relevant studies data.

The user A A may view data related to the relevant studies in the relevant studies subsection . The user A A may view the relevant studies in the studies table . The user A A may click on a study in the studies table to view the study profile data associated with the study. The user A A may use the study profile data as guidance in selecting a reduction factor in the factor field . The study profile data may display information regarding the study profile of the selected study including the study name the factor value the link to the study and comments regarding the study. The user A A may receive help by clicking on the help button and the user A A may submit feedback by clicking on the feedback button .

In operation the user A A may enter generic server information in the server distribution subsection . The user A A may choose to enter generic server information when they are unsure of the exact server models in the data center. The system may use average values from the historical data center information to determine the power consumption and processing power of the generic server types. The user A A may enter the number of generic high end servers in the high end servers quantity field and the utilization of the generic high end servers in the high end servers utilization field . Similarly the user A A may enter the number of mid range servers in the mid range servers quantity field and the average utilization of the mid range servers in the mid range servers utilization field . Lastly the user A A may enter the number of generic volume servers in the generic volume servers quantity field and the average utilization of the generic volume servers in the volume servers utilization field .

In the projections subsection the service provider may display the projected number of servers required for the user A A to implement the reduction factor and initiatives selected in . The projections may be based on the values the user A A entered in the server distribution subsection the initiatives selected by the user A A in the initiatives table in and the historical data center data. The service provider may utilize historical data center data pertaining to data centers with a similar profile as the data center of the user A A to populate the projections subsection . The user A A may click on the general detail button to change the screen from the general view to the detailed view. The user A A may receive help by clicking on the help button and the user A A may submit feedback by clicking on the feedback button .

In operation the user A A may identify the number of HVAC units in the data center with the number of HVAC units field and the HVAC redundancy with the HVAC redundancy selector . The user A A may input the chiller plan efficiency in kilowatts ton in the chiller plan efficiency field . The pump efficiency may be inputted in the pump efficiency field and the fan efficiency may be inputted in the fan efficiency field . The total efficiency may be displayed in the total efficiency field . The user A A may receive help by clicking on the help button and the user A A may submit feedback by clicking on the feedback button .

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer system may also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a communications device a wireless telephone a land line telephone a control system a camera a scanner a facsimile machine a printer a pager a personal trusted device a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. In a particular embodiment the computer system may be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice video or data communication. Further while a single computer system may be illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

As illustrated in the computer system may include a processor such as a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both. The processor may be a component in a variety of systems. For example the processor may be part of a standard personal computer or a workstation. The processor may be one or more general processors digital signal processors application specific integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays servers networks digital circuits analog circuits combinations thereof or other now known or later developed devices for analyzing and processing data. The processor may implement a software program such as code generated manually i.e. programmed .

The computer system may include a memory that can communicate via a bus . The memory may be a main memory a static memory or a dynamic memory. The memory may include but may not be limited to computer readable storage media such as various types of volatile and non volatile storage media including but not limited to random access memory read only memory programmable read only memory electrically programmable read only memory electrically erasable read only memory flash memory magnetic tape or disk optical media and the like. In one case the memory may include a cache or random access memory for the processor . Alternatively or in addition the memory may be separate from the processor such as a cache memory of a processor the system memory or other memory. The memory may be an external storage device or database for storing data. Examples may include a hard drive compact disc CD digital video disc DVD memory card memory stick floppy disc universal serial bus USB memory device or any other device operative to store data. The memory may be operable to store instructions executable by the processor . The functions acts or tasks illustrated in the figures or described herein may be performed by the programmed processor executing the instructions stored in the memory . The functions acts or tasks may be independent of the particular type of instructions set storage media processor or processing strategy and may be performed by software hardware integrated circuits firm ware micro code and the like operating alone or in combination. Likewise processing strategies may include multiprocessing multitasking parallel processing and the like.

The computer system may further include a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED a flat panel display a solid state display a cathode ray tube CRT a projector a printer or other now known or later developed display device for outputting determined information. The display may act as an interface for the user to see the functioning of the processor or specifically as an interface with the software stored in the memory or in the drive unit .

Additionally the computer system may include an input device configured to allow a user to interact with any of the components of system . The input device may be a number pad a keyboard or a cursor control device such as a mouse or a joystick touch screen display remote control or any other device operative to interact with the system .

The computer system may also include a disk or optical drive unit . The disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions e.g. software can be embedded. Further the instructions may perform one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. The instructions may reside completely or at least partially within the memory and or within the processor during execution by the computer system . The memory and the processor also may include computer readable media as discussed above.

The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable medium that includes instructions or receives and executes instructions responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network may communicate voice video audio images or any other data over the network . Further the instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via a communication interface . The communication interface may be a part of the processor or may be a separate component. The communication interface may be created in software or may be a physical connection in hardware. The communication interface may be configured to connect with a network external media the display or any other components in system or combinations thereof. The connection with the network may be a physical connection such as a wired Ethernet connection or may be established wirelessly as discussed below. Likewise the additional connections with other components of the system may be physical connections or may be established wirelessly. In the case of a service provider server or the content provider servers A N the servers may communicate with users A N through the communication interface .

The network may include wired networks wireless networks or combinations thereof. The wireless network may be a cellular telephone network an 802.11 802.16 802.20 or WiMax network. Further the network may be a public network such as the Internet a private network such as an intranet or combinations thereof and may utilize a variety of networking protocols now available or later developed including but not limited to TCP IP based networking protocols.

The computer readable medium may be a single medium or the computer readable medium may be a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium may also include any medium that may be capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that may cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

The computer readable medium may include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. The computer readable medium also may be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium may include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that may be a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure may be considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

Alternatively or in addition dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices may be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments may broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that may be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system may encompass software firmware and hardware implementations.

The methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further implementations may include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively or in addition virtual computer system processing maybe constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

Although components and functions are described that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the components and functions are not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

The illustrations described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus processors and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally the illustrations are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions within the illustrations may be exaggerated while other proportions may be minimized. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments which fall within the true spirit and scope of the description. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

