---

title: Technique for providing network access to different entities
abstract: A technique for providing network access to an external device is described. A modem device for realizing this technique comprises a first mobile platform module adapted to support network access via a first radio access technology (RAT) and comprising a first data interface towards the external device, as well as a second mobile platform module adapted to support network access via at least one second RAT and comprising a second data interface towards the external device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08619710&OS=08619710&RS=08619710
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson (publ)
number: 08619710
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20081218
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to European Patent Application No. 07025054.3 filed Dec. 21 2007 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 016 461 filed Dec. 22 2007 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to the provision of network access via Radio Access Technologies RATs . Specifically the invention relates to a technique that permits a device such as a Personal Computer PC or laptop to selectively obtain wireless network access via one of several mobile platform modules installed for example on a network card.

Mobile telephones have traditionally been voice centric devices with proprietary operating systems handling all communication tasks. The Application Programming Interfaces APIs in these devices were not made available to third party developers. As a consequence end users were dependent on the device manufacturers for applications.

Today the mobile communications industry is increasingly becoming aware of the importance and benefits of open application environments for mobile devices. Basically an open application environment permits the installation of third party applications on the mobile device during device manufacture or later on by a user operating the device. Such third party applications may include games software upgrades etc.

A. Ghosh et al. Open application environments in mobile devices Focus on JME and Ericsson Mobile Platforms Ericsson Review No. 2 Vol. 82 2005 pages 82 to 91 ISSN 0014 0171 describe an exemplary open application environment for mobile devices. The open application environment is based on a mobile platform with a digital baseband processor supporting one or more RATs such as General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data for GSM Evolution EDGE or Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA . The mobile platform is an environment that includes all the necessary integrated circuits and software needed to provide wireless network access services and communication services e.g. for voice data or multimedia applications as well as interfaces to make these services available to applications residing within or on top of the mobile platform.

As wireless access points supporting different kinds of RATs are becoming ubiquitous it is only a logical consequence that many mobile platform chips provide support for more than one RAT. However from the perspective of modularity it is sometimes desirable to co locate in one mobile device two or more platform chips each supporting a different RAT. Such a modular approach facilitates re using a mobile platform either in a stand alone configuration or in any combination with other mobile platforms.

WO A 00 22857 teaches a modular approach in which different network access modules such as a Local Area Network LAN module and a Global System for Mobile communications GSM module are interconnected via a communication bus according to the Universal Serial Bus USB standard. Other modules connected to the communication bus such as a Closed Circuit Television CCTV module may then selectively transmit signals via the LAN module on the one hand or via the GSM module on the other.

Mobile platforms are often incorporated in modem devices like network cards that provide wireless network access to terminal devices such as PCs or laptops. Such modem devices often support two or more different RATs to ensure the availability of network access in various environments. Due to modularity considerations two or more different mobile platforms may therefore concurrently be installed within a modem device.

Accordingly there is a need for a technique for efficiently coupling a device with two or more mobile platforms to another device seeking network access.

According to a first aspect this need is satisfied by an apparatus for providing network access to an external device such as a PC or laptop wherein the apparatus comprises a first mobile platform module adapted to support network access via a first RAT and comprising a first data interface towards the external device and a second mobile platform module adapted to support network access via at least one second RAT and comprising a second data interface towards the external device.

By providing each mobile platform module with its own data interface towards the external device the external device may be selectively and directly coupled to each mobile platform module. Situations in which network traffic is routed from one of the mobile platform modules through another one of mobile platform modules and only then to the external device may thus be avoided.

In accordance with the paradigm of modularity at least one of the mobile platform modules may be configured to be re useable either in stand alone configuration or in a dual or triple etc. mode configuration. In the latter configuration two or more mobile platform modules may be co located within the apparatus and provided with inter platform interfaces.

The apparatus may further comprise at least one control interface adapted to transfer control information towards the external device. Data and control interfaces may generally be differentiated by the transferred type of information. Data information will typically be generated by and or directed to a user or a user application whereas control information will typically be exchanged by lower layer components.

In a first implementation each mobile platform module includes its own control interface towards the external device. In a second implementation a control interface towards the external device is provided by only one of the mobile platform modules and this mobile platform module has additional control interfaces towards the other mobile platform modules. Other implementations of the control interface towards the external device are also possible. The at least one control interface towards the external device may be employed to indicate towards the external device an availability of network access via one or more of the RATs.

At least one of the mobile platform modules may further comprise a network interface and a communication path stretching between this network interface and the data interface of this mobile platform module towards the external device. The network interface may be directed towards Radio Frequency RF components of the apparatus such as an RF amplifier and one or more antennas and may comprise network signalling functionalities.

One or more of the mobile platform modules may further comprise a network address management component adapted to perform network address related operations. The network address management component may comprise one or more protocol layers of a protocol stack of the respective mobile platform module which are in charge of network address management. Such layers may comprise an Internet Protocol IP layer and or higher layers.

In one or more of the mobile platform modules the communication path stretching between the local network interface and the data interface towards the external device may be adapted to selectively bypass the local network address management component. In this regard the communication path may for example be adapted not to reach into the IP layer provided in a protocol stack of the mobile platform module unless specifically required by the utilized communication protocol. Accordingly the selective bypassing of the network address management component may be controlled by the communication protocol in use.

In situations in which several mobile platform modules are provided with dedicated network address management components the individual network management components deployed on the different mobile platform modules may be adapted to communicate with each other. Such a communication may be performed with the object of network address synchronization among the mobile platform modules. The network address synchronization may include presenting the plurality of mobile platform modules under a single network address e.g. under a single IP address to at least one of the external device and the network.

To facilitate inter platform communication each mobile platform module may further comprise an inter platform control interface for inter platform control signalling. Besides the network address synchronization signalling mentioned above inter platform control signalling exchanged via the inter platform control interfaces could also relate to at least one of a handover between the individual RATs RAT synchronization platform module wake up and inter platform Subscriber Identity Module SIM card access.

The apparatus may further comprise a hub connecting the data interfaces of the mobile platform modules. The hub may be provided to present the plurality of platform module data interfaces in the form of a single data port towards the external device.

At least one of the mobile platform modules may further comprise an additional data interface to provide a local application residing on the apparatus with network access. Such an application may for example be installed on an application platform module co located with the mobile platform modules within the apparatus and comprising a dedicated application processor. Such additional data interfaces could of course also be used for inter platform data communication.

The individual mobile platform modules may be realized in various ways. In one implementation each mobile platform module is realized as a separate integrated circuit comprising the respective data interface and additionally a digital baseband processor supporting the respective RAT. In one variation each mobile platform module is constituted by an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC .

The apparatus may generally be configured as a stationary device or as a mobile device. As for a mobile realization the apparatus may be configured as at least one of a mobile terminal such as a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a mobile telephone and a network card.

The data interfaces towards the external device and the optional inter platform data interfaces may operate in accordance with one of a plurality of interface standards. In this regard the USB standard can be mentioned. The data interfaces towards the external device may for example be realized as separate USB interfaces presenting the apparatus as Ethernet network card to the external device.

According to a further aspect a device for obtaining network access via an external apparatus is provided wherein the device comprises a first data interface adapted to be coupled to the external apparatus to obtain network access via a first RAT supported by the external apparatus a second data interface adapted to be coupled to the external apparatus to obtain network access via at least one second RAT supported by the external apparatus and an interface driver binding the first data interface and the second data interface into one logical network interface. The first data interface and the second data interface may be logical interfaces that are physically combined in a single data port of the external device.

The device may be configured as a PC as a laptop or as a similar stationary or mobile device. The device may be configured to be removably connected to the external apparatus via a cable e.g. via a USB cable or a short range wireless communication technology such as Bluetooth or any Wireless Local Area Network WLAN standard such as the IEEE 802.11 suite.

The interface driver of the device may be adapted to present the logical interface under a single network address to internal components such as an operating system or an application processor of the device. Moreover the device may comprise a control interface adapted to receive control information from the external apparatus and in such a case the interface driver may be adapted to selectively switch depending on the control information to one of the data interfaces of the device.

According to a still further aspect a method of providing network access to an external device is proposed wherein the method comprises the steps of providing a first mobile platform module adapted to support network access via a first RAT and comprising a first data interface towards the external device providing at least one second mobile platform module adapted to support network access via at least one second RAT and comprising a second data interface towards the external device and selectively routing network traffic to and or from the external device via one of the first data interface and the second data interface.

The method may further comprise routing network traffic directly between a network interface of each mobile platform module and the respective data interface bypassing one or more or all protocol layers in a protocol stack deployed on the mobile platform module. The method may also comprise generating a control signal indicative of a handover between the RATs provided by different mobile platform modules and sending the control signal to the external device. In the external device the control signal may control a local switching to either one of the data interfaces provided by the mobile platform modules.

According to a still further aspect a method of obtaining network access via an external apparatus is provided wherein the method comprises providing a first data interface adapted to be coupled to the external apparatus to obtain network access via a first RAT supported by the external apparatus providing a second data interface adapted to be coupled to the external apparatus to obtain network access via at least one second RAT supported by the external apparatus binding the first data interface and the second data interface into one logical network interface and selectively routing network traffic over one of the first data interface and the second data interface via the single logical interface.

The method may also comprise in the case of an internal handover between RATs deployed on different mobile platform modules the step of switching between the data interfaces of the different mobile platform modules in such a manner that any network access interruptions are avoided. The handover switching may be performed in response to receipt of a control signal from the external apparatus. The control signal may be indicative of the availability of network access via the various RATs supported by the mobile platform modules.

The techniques presented herein may be realised in the form of software in the form of hardware or using a combined software hardware approach. As regards a software aspect a computer program product comprising program code portions for performing the steps presented herein when the computer program product is run on one or more computing devices is provided. The computer program product may be stored on a computer readable recording medium such as a memory chip a CD ROM a harddisk and so on.

In the following description of preferred embodiments for purposes of explanation and not limitation specific details are set forth such as particular interfaces network access technologies and sequences of steps in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced in other embodiments that depart from these specific details. For example while the embodiments will primarily be described in context with third and fourth generation mobile communications standards such as the UMTS and LTE standards respectively it will be evident that the present invention can also be practised in connection with a second generation mobile communications technology according to for example the GSM standard.

Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the services functions and steps explained herein below may be implemented using software functioning in conjunction with a programmed micro processor an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Digital Signal Processor DSP or a general purpose computer. It will also be appreciated that while the following embodiments will primarily be described in context with methods and devices the invention may also be embodied in a computer program product as well as in a system comprising a computer processor and a memory coupled to the processor wherein the memory is encoded with one or more programs that may perform the services functions and steps disclosed herein.

The modem device comprises two mobile platform modules each supporting one or more RATs and each realized in the form of a separate platform chip. Support for a specific RAT includes the provision of at least one dedicated baseband processor for this RAT on the respective mobile platform module . Each mobile platform module may further comprise dedicated RF components such as RF amplifiers or such RF components may be jointly used by the mobile platform modules .

The mobile platform module may be provided in the form of a platform main chip supporting one or more existing or legacy RATs such as EDGE WCDMA GSM or High Speed Packet Access HSPA radio technologies. The other mobile platform module may be provided in the form of a platform co chip containing one or more novel RATs such as LTE or evolved HSPA eHSPA .

The provision of two separate mobile platform modules has some advantages such as an increased assembly flexibility and a reduced time to market due to a decreased complexity. The higher flexibility results from the modular approach which permits to selectively implement the mobile platform modules either in stand alone solutions or in dual mode solutions as shown in .

The mobile platform modules comprise a plurality of interfaces. First of all each mobile platform module comprises a data interface towards the terminal device . The data interfaces are configured to be used by the terminal device to obtain network access via the one or more RATs supported by each mobile platform module . In one implementation the data interfaces are realized in accordance with the USB standard. Specifically the data interfaces may be configured in accordance with a USB device class presenting the mobile platforms as Ethernet network cards towards the terminal device . Suitable USB device classes providing Ethernet via USB include for example USB CDC ECM USB CDC EEM USB CDC ENCM and USB NCM.

In the embodiment shown in the two data interfaces are connected to a hub presenting the two data interfaces in the form of a single physical data port towards the external device . Accordingly while there exist two logical USB Ethernet devices on the two mobile platform modules only a single physical USB port will be presented towards the external device . It should be noted that the data interfaces towards the external device need not necessarily be configured in accordance with the USB standard. Other possible interface standards include the Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter UART standard or any proprietory standard.

As shown in the mobile platform modules additionally include inter platform data interfaces . These inter platform data interfaces allow for a user data transfer between the two mobile platform modules . Such a user data transfer may for example be required if an application residing within or on top of mobile platform module wishes to obtain network access via the RAT provided by mobile platform module and vice versa. The inter platform data interfaces may be configured as USB interfaces and in such a case the interface on one platform module implements the UBS host role and the interface on the other platform module implements the USB device role. Of course other interface standards including UART and proprietary standards can be used also.

In addition to the data interfaces towards the external device and the inter platform data interfaces the mobile platform modules comprise inter platform control interfaces . The inter platform control interfaces will be utilized for the exchange of control signalling between the two mobile platform modules . Such control signalling may include Internal RAT I RAT synchronization I RAT handover SIM access from one platform module to the other platform module in such a case only a single one of the two mobile platform modules needs to provide SIM access functionalities and system control signalling including platform module wake up functionalities. The control interfaces can be configured in accordance with the UART standard the USB standard the General Purpose Input Output GPIO standard or any proprietary standard. In the case the control interfaces are configured in accordance with the USB standard they may at the same time be utilized for user data transfer and in such a case the two inter platform data interfaces may be omitted.

The modem device communicates with the terminal device via a data connection on the one hand and a control connection on the other. The data connection stretches from the physical port of the USB hub to a physical USB port of the terminal device . The control connection on the other hand stretches between a control interface of the modem device and a corresponding control interface of the terminal device . The control interfaces may be configured in accordance with the UART standard or any proprietary standard. Alternatively the control interfaces could be omitted and control signalling be exchanged via the link between the port provided by the USB hub and the USB port of the terminal device .

As shown in the terminal device comprises a first data interface and a second data interface which are adapted to be coupled to the modem device to obtain network access via the RATs supported by the modem device . Specifically the first data interface is a logical USB interface adapted to be coupled to the corresponding USB interface of the mobile platform module to obtain network access via the one or more RATs provided by the mobile platform module and the second data interface is a logical USB interface adapted to be coupled to the corresponding USB interface of the mobile platform module to obtain network access via the one or more RATs provided by the mobile platform module .

The terminal device further comprises an interface driver adapted to bind a first data interface and the second data interface of the terminal device into one logical network interface. As a consequence any application of the terminal device requiring network access will not see the two separate data interfaces of the modem device but will only see the single logical network interface provided by the interface driver .

The interface driver is coupled to the control interface to receive control information indicative of the availability of the RATs supported by the mobile platform modules . The interface driver will thus selectively switch either to the first data interface or to the second data interface depending on the control information received via the control interface .

The flow diagrams shown in illustrate the basic operations of the modem device and the terminal device illustrated in .

With respect to the flow diagram of the operation of the modem device starts with the provision of the two mobile platform modules and the associated data interfaces in steps and . In a further step network traffic to and or from the terminal device is selectively routed via one of the first data interface and the second data interface .

As for the operation of the terminal device illustrated in the flow diagram of the operation starts with the provision of the two data interfaces that are adapted to be coupled to the modem device to obtain network access via the RATs supported by the modem device steps and . In a next step the two data interfaces are bound by the interface driver into one logical network interface. Then in step network traffic is selectively routed over one of the two data interfaces via the single logical interface created in step .

In the embodiment shown in the modem device is again a dual mode device comprising a first mobile platform module supporting the LTE RAT and a second mobile platform module supporting the UMTS RAT. In addition to the components already discussed in context with and which are therefore partly not shown in each mobile platform module additionally comprises a network address management component in the form of an IP module with IP layer functionalities. The network address management components are configured to communicate with each other via the control interfaces shown in not shown in . This inter platform communication between the two network address management components aims at synchronizing the IP stacks maintained by each network address signalling component . Such a synchronization includes the transfer of an IP address that has been allocated by the network between the respective IP stacks. After the IP stack synchronization the two mobile platform modules will act towards the outside world i.e. towards the network and towards the terminal device as if the modem device had only a single IP stack.

As can be gathered from each mobile platform module further comprises a network signalling module that constitutes an interface towards the associated access network. The network signalling modules are in charge of the signalling required to establish and maintain a network connection e.g. a connection to the Internet via the associated RAT.

Each of the mobile platform modules provides an external USB device data interface respectively to an USB host driver of the terminal device . The UMTS platform module is therefore configured to present itself as USB Ethernet Network Access Point NAP device to the USB host driver giving the USB host Internet access using UMTS RAT via USB Ethernet. In a similar manner the LTE platform module is configured to present itself via the USB device interface as USB Ethernet NAP device to the USB host driver thus giving the USB host Internet access using LTE RAT via USB Ethernet. The USB host driver is adapted to bind these two USB Ethernet devices presented by the two data interfaces into one logical network interface with the same IP address. Accordingly an operating system with an associated IP stack and an application running on the operating system only see a single network device instead of two dedicated mobile platform modules .

As already mentioned above in context with the two logical USB Ethernet devices presented by the two data interfaces can optionally be merged by a USB hub so that only a single physical USB port or interface is presented towards the terminal device .

An aspect that should be mentioned with respect to the system embodiment shown in is the fact that the data path within each individual mobile platform module may include an IP shortcut between the data interfaces on the one hand and the network signalling modules on the other. This shortcut constitutes a direct link for IP packets containing user data bypassing the respective network address management component . Basically these components only have to be included in the data path in case of IP packets involving for example the Address Solution Protocol ASP the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP and the Domain Name System DNS standard. In case the IP shortcut illustrated in is not implemented all IP packets are routed through the associated network address management component .

Certain scenarios may require an I RAT handover during an ongoing data session. Such a handover may occur from the LTE RAT to the UMTS RAT or vice versa depending on considerations such as RAT signal strengths network access costs quality of service and the like. In the case of an I RAT handover the switching from one RAT to the other is in one scenario not done inside the modem device but inside the terminal device by the USB host driver for example by switching from the USB Ethernet connection provided by the UMTS platform module to the USB Ethernet connection provided by the LTE platform module or vice versa . This switching is done such that there will be no service disconnection when changing from one RAT to the other RAT.

Since the switching is controlled by the USB host driver there has to be a mechanism that indicates to the USB host driver which USB Ethernet connection is currently the one with the active RAT. Such a mechanism can be based on the control connection discussed above in context with . The generation of the corresponding switching control signal within the modem device can consider various strategies. According to a very simple strategy the user data will always be routed to the fastest available USB Ethernet device which will be presented by the LTE platform module in the present embodiment and which will only be available if the LTE RAT is active .

The decision strategy underlying the generation of the switching control signal could also be more advanced. For example the LTE platform module may direct the USB host driver via the control connection see by notifications from an LTE USB Ethernet notification pipe to prepare and execute handover between the USB Ethernet devices presented by the data interfaces . It is possible that either the LTE platform module or the UMTS platform module controls the generation of the switching control signal for the USB host driver . However it is also conceivable that the LTE platform module sends the connection status of the LTE RAT and the UMTS platform module the connection status of the UMTS RAT via separate switching control signals to the USB host driver to enable a decision within the terminal device .

The USB host driver may be configured to communicate in accordance with the Network Driver Interfaces Specification NDIS towards the application . NDIS is an Application Programming Interface API for Network Interface Cards NICs . As mentioned above the USB host driver combines the two Ethernet devices represented by the two data interfaces and presents both as a single NI C towards the application . In this regard the USB host driver may simply indicate to the application whether there is an NIC connected to the Internet or not. However the signalling of the USB host driver towards the application does not distinguish between which of the two USB Ethernet devices is connected.

From the connection status of the LTE USB Ethernet device data interface and the connection status of the UMTS USB Ethernet device data interface the USB host driver may determine the connection status of the NIC. shows an exemplary state diagram showing the various possible states. A first state indicates that neither an LTE connection nor an UMTS connection is available. State indicates the availability of an LTE connection only and state indicates the availability of an UMTS connection only. The availability of both connections is represented by state . State represents a disconnecting state. In this regard OUT denotes the direction from the USB host terminal device to the USB device modem device and IN the inverse direction.

As becomes apparent from there is no direct transition from any connected state to the state representative of a lacking connection. Rather the disconnecting state and an associated timer always intercepts a transition from any of the states to the state . If one or both of the LTE RAT and UMTS RAT go down the timer is started and only if neither one of the two RATs has gone up before expiry of the timer the disconnected state will be assumed again. The provision of the disconnected state provides the advantage of a more stable system operation in case of only brief network access failures.

As has become apparent from the above description of preferred embodiments it is advantageous to provide each mobile platform module with its own data interface towards the terminal device . Such a solution avoids the drawbacks associated with scenarios in which only a single mobile platform module realizes such a data interface towards external device as illustrated in .

In the UMTS platform module implements the external USB device interface. When UMTS is the active RAT user data is completely handled on the UMTS platform module. However in cases in which there is a handover to the LTE RAT user data has to be transferred between the two platform modules. illustrates a similar case in which the LTE platform module implements the external USB device interface. When LTE is the active RAT user data is completely handled on the LTE platform module. However in cases whether is a handover to the UMTS RAT user data needs again to be transferred between the two platform modules.

In relation to the scenarios illustrated in the solution presented by the embodiments has the advantage of a lower power consumption as no inter platform data interface needs to be powered up because each platform module can autonomously handle the user data transfer to the external device. A further advantage results from the fact that if LTE is the active RAT no routing of the user data through the typically slower UMTS platform module is required. The resulting performance limitations can thus be avoided.

The solution of having platform specific data interfaces towards the terminal device also simplifies other platform specific functionalities via these data interfaces such as debugging flashing data mass storage and the like. Moreover existing software tools for these purposes can be reused as each platform module can be accessed separately.

Also the development efforts inside the platform modules are decreased as the user data path is the same as for conventional stand alone cases i.e. for modem devices comprising only a single mobile platform . There is thus no need to implement a specific user data path for the case in which one mobile platform module handles the interface towards the terminal device and the other mobile platform module handles the network access as shown in .

It is believed that many advantages of the present invention will be fully understood from the forgoing description and it will be apparent that various changes may be made in the form construction and arrangement of the exemplary aspects thereof without departing from the scope of the invention or without sacrificing all of its advantages. Because the invention can be varied in many ways it will be recognized that the invention should be limited only by the scope of the following claims.

