---

title: Impingement cooling for turbofan exhaust assembly
abstract: A cooling system for a turbine exhaust assembly comprises an annular case, a flowpath ring and a splash plate. The flowpath ring is coaxially disposed within the annular case. The splash plate extends axially between the annular case and the flowpath ring. A plurality of cooling fluid apertures is formed in the annular case, in order to provide cooling fluid flow onto the splash plate. A plurality of impingement holes is formed in the splash plate, in order to provide impingement flow onto the flowpath ring.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08069648&OS=08069648&RS=08069648
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08069648
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080703
---
This invention was made with U.S. Government support under Contract No. N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by U.S. Navy. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates generally to gas turbine engines and specifically to cooling techniques for a turbine exhaust assembly. In particular the invention concerns impingement cooling of a low bypass turbofan exhaust case TEC assembly with applications in military aviation and high performance aircraft.

Standard gas turbine engines are built around a power core comprising compressor combustor and turbine sections which are arranged in flow series with an upstream inlet and a downstream exhaust nozzle. The compressor compresses air from the inlet. The compressed air is used an oxidant in the combustor and in some applications for accessory pneumatic functions and environmental control. Fuel is injected into the combustor where it combines with the compressed air and ignites to produce hot combustion gases. The hot combustion gases drive the engine by expansion in the turbine section and are exhausted to the nozzle through a turbine exhaust case TEC assembly.

The turbine section drives the compressor via a rotating shaft or in most larger scale applications via a number of coaxially nested shafts and independently rotating turbine compressor assemblies or spools. Each spool in turn employs a number of stages in which rotating blades coupled to the shaft are alternated with stationary vanes coupled to a shroud or other fixed component of the engine housing.

Energy that is not used to drive the compressor and accessory functions is available for extraction and use. In ground based applications energy is typically delivered in the form of rotational motion which is used to drive an electrical generator or other mechanical load coupled to the shaft. In aviation applications the gas turbine engine also provides reactive thrust.

The relative contributions of rotation and thrust depend upon engine design. In turbojet engines for example which are an older design essentially all the net thrust is generated in the exhaust. In modern turbofan engines on the other hand the shaft is used to drive a ducted propeller or forward fan which generates additional thrust by forcing air through a bypass flow duct surrounding the engine core.

Turbofan engines include low bypass turbofans in which the bypass flow is relatively small with respect to the core flow and high bypass turbofans in which the bypass flow is greater. High bypass turbofans tend to be quieter cooler and more energy efficient particularly in subsonic flight applications for commercial and other general purpose aircraft. Low bypass turbofans can be somewhat louder and less fuel efficient but provide greater specific thrust. For these and other reasons low bypass turbofans are generally utilized in military jet fighters and other high performance supersonic aircraft.

In supersonic applications the turbofan engine is typically provided with an afterburner. Afterburning systems provide thrust augmentation by injecting additional fuel into an augmentor assembly downstream of the TEC where it mixes with the core flow and ignites to increase the thrust. Afterburning substantially enhances engine performance but is also associated with additional costs in efficiency noise output and thermal signature.

The main design goals for aviation based gas turbine engines are performance efficiency reliability and service life. Performance and efficiency both favor higher combustion temperatures which increase the engine s specific thrust and overall thermodynamic efficiency. Unfortunately higher combustion temperatures also result in increased thermal and mechanical loads particularly for engine components along the hot gas flowpath downstream of the combustor. This can affect service life and reliability and increase operational costs associated with maintenance and part replacement.

In high performance low bypass turbofans gas path temperatures are often a factor at the TEC assembly where hot combustion gases flow from turbine section upstream of the TEC toward the afterburner augmentor downstream of the TEC . The issue can be problematic proximate the forward outer diameter ring FODR on the upstream end of the TEC assembly. In this region operational conditions can sometimes establish a negative pressure differential between the FODR plenum which surrounds the FODR and the exhaust gas flow inside the FODR.

Negative FODR plenum overpressure allows hot gas inflow impairing cooling efficiency. The result is decreased service life and increased risk of mechanical failure. There is thus a need for improved TEC assembly cooling techniques that provide increased service life and reliability without sacrificing performance and efficiency.

This disclosure concerns an impingement cooling system for a turbofan exhaust case TEC assembly adaptable to low bypass turbofan engines for supersonic aircraft. The system comprises an annular case a flowpath ring for turbine exhaust and a splash plate.

The flowpath ring is coaxially oriented within the annular case. The splash plate extends axially between the annular case and the flowpath ring. Cooling fluid apertures in the annular case provide cooling flow onto the splash plate and impingement holes in the splash plate provide impingement flow onto the flowpath ring. The system provides positive overpressure along the axial extent of the flowpath ring preventing hot gas inflow.

TEC turbine exhaust case assembly comprises forward outer diameter ring FODR finger seal forward inner diameter ring FIDR and TEC leading edge piece . TEC leading edge piece comprises a combination of strut or support rod components to space FODR from FIDR which are contained within fairing assembly . In some embodiments TEC assembly also includes one or more elements of the low pressure turbine LPT section such as final LPT stator vane stage .

FODR finger seal FIDR TEC leading edge piece and the other components of TEC assembly are typically manufactured from durable heat resistant materials such as high temperature metal alloys or superalloys. This protects the components from extreme operational conditions due to the flow of high temperature exhaust hot combustion gases downstream of the combustor and turbine sections. In some embodiments one or more of these components is provided with a thermal or protective coating such as a ceramic thermal barrier coating TBC an aluminide coating a metal oxide coating a metal alloy coating a superalloy coating or a combination thereof.

TEC assembly forms a generally annular flowpath or flow region for core working fluid exhaust gas flow between LPT stage and afterburner assembly augmentor . FODR forms an outer flow ring around the annular exhaust flowpath and FIDR forms an inner flow ring inside the annular exhaust gas flowpath. Thus FODR defines a radially outer boundary for the combustion gas flow and FIDR defines a radially inner boundary for the combustion gas flow.

Forward outer diameter ring plenum FODR plenum forms a generally annular cavity coaxially oriented about the hot exhaust gas flowpath inside FODR and within the relatively cool bypass flowpath in bypass duct described below. More specifically FODR plenum comprises a plenum section with a radially inner margin or boundary defined at least in part by FODR along the hot exhaust gas flowpath and a radially outer margin or boundary defined at least in part by LPT case or inner case or both along the cool bypass flowpath.

LPT case or turbine case is coaxially disposed about the turbine section of turbofan which extends upstream of TEC assembly . Inner case or exhaust case extends downstream of LPT case and is coaxially disposed about TEC assembly .

Finger seal forms a pressure and fluid flow seal between FODR and LPT case at the forward upstream end of FODR plenum and FODR forms a pressure and fluid flow seal with inner case at the aft end of FODR plenum . This defines the axial extent of FODR plenum from the forward end of FODR proximate finger seal to the aft end of FODR downstream of probe assembly .

Hot exhaust gases flow downstream through turbine exhaust case from final turbine stage s toward augmentor . The core exhaust gas flowpath comprises a region of divergent and radial axial flow F in the forward or upstream section of TEC assembly and a region of substantially axial flow F in the aft or downstream section of TEC .

Probe assembly extends from FODR plenum through FODR into the core exhaust gas flowpath between FODR and FIDR . Probe assembly is used to measure hot gas path fluid parameters as described in more detail with respect to .

Bypass flow duct forms an annular channel for bypass flow around the engine core. In the region of TEC assembly the inner margin of bypass flow duct is defined or formed along LPT case and inner case and coincides with the radially outer margin of FODR plenum . The outer margin of bypass duct is defined along outer engine casing or fan cowling . Bypass duct also extends downstream of TEC assembly past blocker door toward afterburner augmentor assembly .

Cooling fluid plenum is formed about the aft end of TEC assembly between inner case and bypass flow duct . In some embodiments cooling fluid plenum extends downstream of TEC assembly toward augmentor . In these embodiments cooling fluid plenum typically extends to modulated exhaust cooling MEC module which provides flow during afterburning operation of augmentor .

Blockers are typically formed as vanes or fixed blades with an airfoil cross section. Each blocker or blocker door comprises forward upstream blocker section aft downstream blocker section and blocker seal . Blocker seal is typically formed as a finger seal or similar structure that forms a pressure and flow seal between blocker door and a radially inner boundary or margin of bypass duct such as inner case .

A number of blockers are circumferentially arranged about bypass duct . Each blocker extends from the radially inner boundary of bypass flow duct to a radially outer boundary or margin of bypass flow duct such as engine casing . Forward blocker section or blocker door with blocker seal is configured to swing or move in a circumferential sense with respect to aft blocker section reducing the flow space between adjacent blockers .

Blockers form a modulating exhaust cooling device configured for variable closure and commensurate bypass flow reduction. In particular blockers function as a variable area device that regulates the relative pressure differential between upstream bypass flow A and downstream bypass flow A .

When forward blocker section is aligned with aft blocker section blockers are substantially axially oriented and the bypass flow area is relatively large. In this configuration bypass flow is increased and the relative pressure differential between upstream bypass flow A and downstream bypass flow A is decreased. When forward blocker section swings or rotates with respect to downstream blocker section such that the two sections of blocker are out of alignment the flow area is reduced and the pressure differential is increased.

Hot gas flow through TEC assembly creates a need for active cooling particularly in the region proximate FODR and the other upstream components of TEC assembly . To provide efficient cooling and prevent inflow in this region a positive overpressure is desired between FODR plenum and the hot flowpath. In particular it is desired that the cooling fluid pressure exceeds the combustion gas pressure along the complete axial extent of FODR plenum and FODR .

Achieving this positive overpressure is complicated by the fact that the hot gas flowpath along FODR tends to exhibit increased pressure in the downstream aft direction. In particular the radial flow component of incoming flow F is reduced by TEC assembly such that outgoing flow F is straightened and becomes more axial. As the flow straightens it also diverges and slows as compared between the forward and aft ends of FODR FIDR and FODR plenum .

Flow straightening has a number of benefits including reduced turbulence improved engine and augmentor efficiency and lower radar and infrared thermal profile. Unfortunately flow straightening is also associated with an increase in the hot gas path pressure along the TEC assembly due to Bernoulli s principle and other effects such as flow stagnation recirculation and turbulence. In previous engine designs this resulted in a region of negative overpressure along at least at the aft end of the FODR plenum particularly during power lift testing STOVL short takeoff or vertical landing and other high pressure high temperature core flow conditions.

To address this situation FODR plenum is provided with direct flow or main jet cooling fluid apertures . Main jet apertures provide direct cooling flow into FODR plenum utilizing high pressure flow A from the upstream region of bypass duct . In particular main jet apertures are located forward of blocker door where upstream flow A exhibits a relatively higher pressure than downstream flow A aft of blocker door .

This distinguishes from designs that utilize lower pressure cooling fluid sources such as plenum a bleed air system or lower pressure bypass flow A in the downstream region of bypass duct . These indirect sources provide lower pressure cooling fluid to FODR plenum than direct flow apertures because they require longer more convoluted and circuitous flow paths or are otherwise subject to increased blockages obstructions constrictions friction and associated loss mechanisms. Indirect sources such as plenum can also problematic when in flow communication with additional downstream loads such as MEC module or a TEC OD outside diameter feed system.

Main jet apertures in contrast provide sufficient direct cooling fluid flow to generate a positive overpressure along the full axial extent of FODR plenum . Adjustable blocker doors moreover located downstream of main jet apertures allow the positive overpressure to be maintained over a wide range of turbofan operating conditions. This positive overpressure enhances TEC assembly cooling but also implicates a number technical design challenges as described below.

As shown in TEC assembly is configured for use in a low bypass high performance afterburning turbofan. In other embodiments the particular details of TEC assembly vary particularly the size and configuration of FODR plenum and its related engine components including FODR finger seal TEC leading edge piece LPT case inner case probe assembly splash plate and FIDR which is shown in .

Direct flow high pressure cooling fluid apertures are formed as holes slots or other openings in one or both of LPT case and inner case . Typically apertures are formed by mechanical drilling electron beam drilling laser drilling laser percussion drilling electron discharge machining or another drilling or machining technique. Alternatively apertures are formed by any combination of drilling machining stamping casting and molding and analogous techniques.

In some embodiments apertures are formed only in LPT case . In these embodiments apertures are sometimes formed as a single row of at least ten 10 holes with a total area of at least two and one half square inches 2.5 in or about 1 600 mm . In one such embodiment apertures comprise approximately eighteen 18 holes with a diameter of about one half inch 0.50 or about 12.7 mm each and a total area of about three and a half square inches 3.5 in or about 2 300 mm .

In other embodiments apertures are formed only in inner case . In these embodiments apertures are sometimes formed in a single row of at least one hundred 100 holes with a total area of at least two and one half square inches 2.5 in or about 1 600 mm . In one such embodiment apertures comprise approximately one hundred eighty three 183 holes with a diameter of about five thirty seconds of an inch 5 32 or about 4.0 mm each and a total area of about three and a half square inches 3.5 in or about 2 300 mm .

In additional embodiments apertures vary in number and area and are formed into different numbers of rows in one or both of LPT case and inner case . In embodiments with multiple rows of apertures the rows are either axially aligned or are staggered or clocked such that individual apertures are rotated about axial centerline Cwith respect to one another. Alternatively apertures are arranged into other geometric patterns or are randomly or arbitrarily distributed along LPT case and inner case .

Like the other components of TEC assembly splash plate or impingement baffle is manufactured from durable heat resistant materials such as metal alloys and superalloys and is sometimes provided with one or more protective coatings. Impingement holes are formed in impingement baffle via a combination of drilling machining stamping molding and related processes as described above with respect to main jet cooling fluid apertures . Baffle is spaced from FODR via a number of dimples or protrusions formed onto baffle or via similar spacing means.

FODR plenum extends between a radially inner boundary along FODR that is along the hot exhaust gas flowpath between FODR and FIDR and a radially outer boundary along LPT case and inner case along the cool bypass flowpath inside bypass duct . Impingement baffle extends coaxially within FODR plenum from a forward end located proximate finger seal to an aft end located downstream of probe assembly . Typically baffle is mechanically attached at the forward and aft ends using bolts screws welds or other means of mechanical attachment depending upon the particular configuration of FODR plenum and TEC assembly .

Probe assembly comprises probe extending through probe opening and a probe boss with various components such as sliding seal or ring seal and seal tab or retention ring . The probe boss components form a mechanical attachment and pressure seal between probe and FODR . Probe comprises a sensor or probe device such as an exhaust gas temperature EGT probe or EGT sensor a pressure probe or pressure sensor a velocity probe or velocity sensor or another sensing device used to measure hot gas path parameters proximate FODR .

In typical embodiments a number of probe assemblies are circumferentially arranged around FODR and FODR plenum . In these embodiments individual probe assemblies provide a range of related sensing and measurement functionalities depending upon the desired gas path parameter measurements. The particular configuration of probe assemblies also depends upon whether TEC assembly is undergoing testing or is installed on an aircraft for flight operation.

High pressure direct flow apertures supply cooling fluid to FODR plenum from upstream bypass flow A in bypass duct via one or both of LPT case and inner case . Apertures provide FODR plenum with a positive overpressure as compared to the hot gas path core flow inside TEC assembly . That is the cooling fluid pressure inside FODR plenum is greater than the hot combustion gas pressure all along the core flowpath between FODR and FIDR . In particular the positive overpressure extends along the axial extent of FODR plenum from the upstream forward end of FODR plenum to the downstream aft end of FODR plenum past probe assembly . This prevents inflow through probe opening or probe boss components such as sliding seal ring seal and seal tab retention ring or through film cooling holes as described below.

In designs that do not provide a positive overpressure along FODR plenum the plenum is subject to inflow. That is if the core flow pressure exceeds the cooling fluid pressure inside FODR plenum hot combustion gases can intrude via probe assembly film cooling holes or other entry points. Hot gas inflow impairs cooling efficiency resulting in temperature gradients differential expansion and deformation. These effects in turn generate additional inflow and cooling losses. Inflow can also impair gas path parameter measurements at probe assembly reducing the ability to precisely and efficiently control engine operations.

In contrast to previous designs direct flow apertures maintain a positive overpressure in FODR plenum in order to prevent inflow even under extreme operating conditions such as power lift and STOVL operations. This increases cooling efficiency along the full extent of FODR which in turn decreases the effects of differential expansion and deformation reduces wear and tear and extends service life. In some embodiments improved cooling also extends the safe operating range of TEC assembly thus improving engine performance.

In designs without splash plate main jets J would impinge directly upon FODR producing a highly variable heat transfer coefficient that is relatively high along the main jet line but attenuates rapidly away from the point of main jet impact. This would subject FODR to substantial temperature gradients and thermal stresses reducing average service life and increasing the risk of infant mortality that is the risk of separation or other thermal or mechanical failure before reaching service life expectancy .

As shown in however main sonic jets J impinge on baffle rather than FODR . Because baffle is located within FODR plenum and not exposed to hot combustion gas flow baffle is not subject to the same effects that occur when main jets J impact directly on FODR . Baffle converts main jets J into a number of smaller and more uniformly distributed impingement jets j which are directed through impingement holes to provide more uniform impingement flow onto FODR and other components of TEC assembly such as probe assembly .

Splash plate baffle and impingement holes substantially improve cooling efficiency and uniformity along TEC assembly reducing thermal stresses and differential expansion and improving conductive heat transfer. This in turn reduces mechanical wear and tear and mechanical stress increasing service life and reducing the probability of infant mortality. These effects are not limited moreover to the particular components directly subject to impingement jets j. Because improved cooling reduces thermal gradients and mechanical stress it also benefits engine components that are thermally or mechanically coupled to FODR including finger seal TEC leading edge piece FIDR LPT case and inner case .

As shown in TEC assembly contrasts with designs that supply FODR plenum via relatively low pressure cooling fluid plenum and with designs that do not provide impingement cooling. TEC assembly further contrasts with designs that utilize a higher pressure cooling fluid supply but do not utilize a splash plate or impingement baffle to more uniformly distribute impingement flow onto FODR or which utilize cooling sleeve assemblies or similar structures to direct main cooling fluid jets away from FODR in order to avoid the large thermal gradients associated with direct jet impingement cooling.

In this respect the baffled configuration of FODR plenum provides not only improved impingement cooling but also allows simpler formation of direct feed high pressure cooling fluid apertures . In particular main jet apertures are configurable as simple holes that do not require cooling sleeves. This lowers costs simplifies engine design and reduces the number of potential failure points. Impingement jets j also provide more effective cooling than bulk swirl flow reducing or obviating the need for tangentially angled holes angled cooling sleeve assemblies and other swirl inducing components.

Positive overpressure within FODR plenum provides greater flexibility in the positioning of film cooling holes . In designs without positive overpressure along the complete axial extent of FODR plenum film cooling holes are restricted for example to the forward end of FODR as shown in in order to avoid inflow. Once a positive overpressure is established all along FODR plenum film cooling holes are locatable anywhere along FODR including downstream regions without experiencing inflow.

Film cooling holes are formed into FODR by mechanical drilling electron beam drilling laser drilling laser percussion drilling electron discharge machining or another drilling or machining technique as described above. Holes are typically formed in a number of annular rows in which individual holes are either axially aligned or staggered clocked or exhibit a random or arbitrary distribution as described above for impingement holes and as determined in order to address the particular cooling requirements of FODR and other specific components of TEC assembly .

Baffle converts main jets J into impingement jets j as described above. In the particular embodiment of the spacing and size of impingement holes each vary along the axial extent of baffle and FODR plenum . further illustrates an embodiment in which baffle is spaced from FODR at the forward and aft ends rather than by distributing dimples protrusions or other spacing means along the axial extent of baffle as shown in .

Fluid flow through openings generates a post impingement cooling film along hot side of FODR reducing heat transfer from the combustion gas to TEC assembly . The cooling film also increases heat transfer by carrying heat from hot side of FODR into the core hot exhaust gas flow where it passes downstream.

Post impingement film cooling openings are formed at angle with respect to FODR where angle is measured from the surface to axis of each opening that is from the surface toward the perpendicular. A ninety degree hole angle 90 for example corresponds to a film cooling hole that is perpendicular to the surface while a smaller hole angle 90 lies more along the surface.

In some embodiments angle is approximately twenty degrees 20 or between about fifteen degrees and about thirty degrees 15 30 . In other embodiments angle between about ten degrees and about forty five degrees 10 45 . In addition depending upon the fabrication process of film cooling holes angle can either be measured from hot side hot surface as shown in or from cold side cold surface .

Typically axis a of film cooling openings is coplanar with axial centerline C such that angle is a downstream angle or streamline angle designed to encourage attached flow in a downstream axial direction along hot side of FODR . In some embodiments film cooling openings also have a circumferential component as measured tangentially along hot surface or cold surface and perpendicularly to central axis C. In these embodiments the circumferential angle typically varies between ten and forty five degrees 10 45 in order to encourage tangential film flow along hot side hot surface of FODR .

In previous designs film cooling holes were limited to the forward end of FODR as shown in because the cooling fluid did not have a positive overpressure all along FODR plenum . This was particularly problematic at the aft end of FODR where the hot gas path pressure increases due to expansion stagnation and recirculation leading to inflow as described above. Where inflow occurs film cooling is essentially impossible or at least substantially degraded in both efficacy and efficiency because the holes must be located upstream of the desired cooling location.

With direct flow high pressure cooling fluid apertures FODR plenum maintains a positive cooling fluid overpressure all along the axial extent of FODR . This prevents inflow and allows film cooling holes to be located along the complete axial extent of FODR including aft regions downstream of probe assembly . This allows film cooling holes to be located and sized on the basis of cooling needs rather than being limited by the core gas path pressure.

The result is greater cooling efficacy and efficiency. Efficacy improves because film cooling holes are located where most needed including aft downstream locations along FODR and are not restricted to forward upstream locations. Efficiency also improves because less cooling fluid is required when film cooling holes are located where cooling is required rather than being placed upstream forward due to pressure considerations.

Positive plenum overpressure also allows cooling holes to be more uniformly distributed along the entire axial extent of FODR decreasing temperature gradients and thermal stress and reducing differential expansion and mechanical stress. This also has beneficial effects both for FODR and the other components of TEC assembly that are thermally or mechanically coupled to FODR as described above for impingement baffle and impingement holes .

The present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments. The terminology used is for the purposes of description not limitation and workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

