---

title: Intelligent interaction between devices in a local network
abstract: A device may include a network interface through which the device communicates with a media device in a local network. The device may include a processor to detect whether the device receives a call, determine whether the device is within a predetermined range of the media device based on communication between the device and the media device, and send a message to the media device via the network interface to request the media device to reduce an audio output of the media device when the device is within the predetermined range of the media device and when the device has received the call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08072905&OS=08072905&RS=08072905
owner: Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB
number: 08072905
owner_city: Lund
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20080204
---
Computers communication devices and or media devices e.g. a television a receiver etc. may interact with one another in a local media network. The devices may share multimedia content in the local media network.

According to one aspect a method may include detecting a change in video or audio output of a mobile device obtaining a physical location of the mobile device and a physical location of a media device determining a distance between the mobile device and the media device based on the physical locations of the mobile device and the media device determining whether the distance is within a predetermined range and modifying output of the media device when the distance is within the predetermined range.

Additionally modifying output of the media device may include at least one of sending a command from the mobile device to the media device to fade out or reduce an audio output of the media device sending a command from the mobile device to the media device to pause the output of the media device sending a command from the mobile device to the media device to buffer the output of the media device or sending a command from the mobile device to the media device to store information that indicates what part of content in the output of the media device has been played.

Additionally sending a command to the media device may include sending a Simple Object Access Protocol command.

Additionally the method may further include detecting a change in the distance between the mobile device and the media device determining whether the mobile device is within the predetermined range of the media device and modifying the output of the media device when the mobile device is not within the predetermined range.

Additionally detecting a change in video or audio output of a mobile device may include one of detecting an incoming phone call detecting a termination of a call or detecting a playing of an audio file a video file an audio disk or a video disk.

Additionally the method may further include discovering the media device in a local media network in accordance with Universal Plug and Play protocol.

Additionally the method may further include obtaining a service description and a device description of the media device via a local media network.

Additionally obtaining a physical location of the mobile device and a physical location of the media device may include requesting the media device to provide the physical location of the media device.

Additionally modifying output includes at least one of restoring an audio output of the media device to a level prior to the detected change in the output of the mobile device causing the media device to resume the output of the media device causing the media device to play buffered output of the media device or causing the media device to play un played part of content based on information that has been stored and that indicates what part of content in the output of the media device has been played.

Additionally the method may further include receiving from a user a desired level of volume to which the audio output is to be set when a change is detected in the audio output of the mobile device.

Additionally the method may further include exchanging multimedia content with the media device in accordance with Digital Living Network Alliance protocols.

According to another aspect a device may include a network interface through which the device communicates with a media device in a local network. The device may further include a processor to detect whether the device receives a call determine whether the device is within a predetermined range of the media device based on communication between the device and the media device and send a message to the media device via the network interface to request the media device to reduce an audio output of the media device when the device is within the predetermined range of the media device and when the device has received the call.

Additionally the local network may include a network that is compliant with Digital Living Network Alliance guidelines.

Additionally the media device may include one of a speaker a television a personal computer a laptop a receiver a digital video disk player or a game playing device.

Additionally the processor may be further configured to detect the media device via a discovery protocol.

Additionally the device may further include an accelerometer for determining a position of the device or a Global Positioning System receiver for determining a position of the device.

Additionally the processor may be further configured to receive user input for setting a desired level of volume for reducing the output of the media device when the media device is within the predetermined range and receive user input indicating the predetermined range.

According to yet another aspect a device may include means for detecting whether the device receives a call means for discovering a media device in a local media network means for sending a request for a physical location of the media device to the media device means for determining whether the device is within a predetermined range of the media device based on a response from the media device and means for sending a request to the media device to turn off audio output or reduce the audio output of the media device when the device moves into a predetermined range of the media device while the device is engaged in the call.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

In implementations described herein a device e.g. a portable phone may establish a communication link with other devices in a local media network. In response to events at the device e.g. the device receives an incoming call the device may interact intelligently with other devices in the local media network e.g. cause a pair of speakers in the local media network to decrease the volume .

As further shown in local media network may include a mobile device and media devices through . Mobile device may include for example a radio telephone or a mobile telephone with ultra wide band UWB communication capability Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi or Bluetooth capability a game console or device a global positioning system GPS receiver a Cell positioning system CPS receiver a Global Navigation Satellite System receiver and or a Beidou Navigation system receiver a personal communications system PCS terminal that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing facsimile and or data communications capabilities a wearable computing devices e.g. calculator watch an electronic notepad a laptop and or a personal computer that communicate with wireless peripherals e.g. a wireless keyboard speakers mouse etc. a personal digital assistant PDA that can include a telephone or any other device that has the ability to or is adapted to communicate wirelessly and interact with other devices.

Each of media devices through herein collectively referred to as media devices and generically and individually as media device may include a device such as a personal computer a laptop computer a digital video disk DVD player a receiver a speaker a television etc. Media device may exchange multimedia content with other devices and or present the multimedia content to an audience. In addition media device may discover other devices control a delivery of multimedia content to the other devices and or control a presentation of the multimedia content to the audience.

In depending on the implementation and or configuration local media network may include additional fewer or different devices than the ones that are illustrated. For example local media network may include other mobile devices e.g. a wireless mouse a mobile telephone accessory a gaming device a wearable computing device e.g. watch a GPS receiver a television etc. or media devices e.g. a copier machine a television etc. that can communicate with each other. In addition each device in local media network may include other nested devices. For example a digital video disk DVD player may include a digital clock as well as a multimedia player. Furthermore depending on particular manner in which a device is used the device of one type e.g. a mobile device may function or operate as a device of another type e.g. a media device . For example media device e.g. a laptop may operate as a mobile device.

Depending on the implementation each device in network may conform to one or more communication or network standards. For example mobile device and media device may conform to the Digital Living Network Alliance DLNA guidelines. In such implementations each of the devices in local media network may provide a basic set of functionalities for controlling and or interacting with one another transporting multimedia content and or presenting the multimedia content.

Memory may include static memory such as read only memory ROM and or dynamic memory such as random access memory RAM or onboard cache for storing data and machine readable instructions. Memory may also include storage devices such as a floppy disk Compact Disk CD ROM CD read write R W disc and or flash memory as well as other types of storage devices. Processing unit may include a processor a microprocessor an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and or other processing logic capable of controlling network device .

Network interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables network device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example network interface may include mechanisms for communicating via a network such as the Internet a terrestrial wireless network e.g. wireless local area network WLAN a satellite based network a WPAN etc. Additionally or alternatively network interface may include a modem an Ethernet interface to a LAN and or an interface connection for connecting network device to other devices e.g. a Bluetooth interface . Further network interface may include one or more receivers such as a Global Positioning System GPS receiver for determining its own physical location. Input output components may include a keypad e.g. keypad of a button e.g. control buttons a mouse a speaker e.g. speaker a microphone e.g. microphone a Digital Video Disk DVD writer a DVD reader Universal Serial Bus USB lines and or other types of devices for converting physical events or phenomena to and or from digital signals that pertain to network device .

Depending on a particular implementation input output components may include a display e.g. display . The display may include a component that can display signals generated by network device as images on a screen and or that can accept inputs in the form of taps or touches on the screen. Examples of the display include a liquid crystal display LCD organic light emitting diode OLED display bistable display and or a touch screen.

Communication path may provide an interface through which components of network device can communicate with one another.

System logic may be included in processing unit and or memory and may include hardware and or software for performing various support functions for other components in e.g. local network logic device controller etc. and for performing application functions. For example system logic may provide a Transmission Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP stack to support local network logic on different devices. In another example system logic may provide a browser to allow network device to for example access the Internet.

Device controller may include one or more components that supports specific functionalities of network device . For example if network device is implemented as a DVD player device controller may include a component to control the playing of multimedia content on a DVD fast forwarding through the multimedia content pausing a presentation of the multimedia content etc.

IMC logic may include components for a network device e.g. a mobile device to intelligently interact with other devices. For example using an external speaker may cause IMC logic within media device that controls an entertainment speaker to send a command to the entertainment speaker. In response to the command the entertainment speaker may lower the volume of its audio output.

Local network logic may include components that support standard communication protocols for controlling devices in local media network and for transporting multimedia content in local media network . Furthermore the components of local network logic may conform to one or more standards. For example local network logic may include components that support the DLNA guidelines a High Definition Audio video Network Alliance HANA specification etc. In the descriptions that follow however components of network device will be described in the context of interacting with other devices in accordance with the DLNA guidelines.

When local network logic operates in accordance with the DLNA guidelines local network logic may provide a mechanism for responding to network service requests. For example media player e.g. a DVD player may respond to requests that are issued over local media network communication channels in accordance with Universal Plug and Play UPnP protocol and or Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP .

In one implementation local network logic may respond to requests that include a command to provide a physical location of media player commands to adjust an audio output e.g. turn off mute fade in or fade out the audio output restore a previous volume of the audio output before the volume has been changed etc. commands to adjust video outputs e.g. black out dim or brighten a video output restore a previous brightness level of the video output etc. commands to buffer store audio video output commands to play the buffered audio video commands to store information that indicates what portion of content of the audio video output has been played e.g. particular scene or freeze frame commands to play the un played portion of the content of the audio video output etc. In different implementations local network logic may respond to additional or different network requests or commands based on the particular network and media devices .

Position logic may determine physical locations of different devices in local media network . For example position logic may include host position logic for determining the physical location of network device that hosts IMC logic and network device position logic for determining physical locations of media devices in local media network 

The host position logic may rely on one or more mechanisms to determine the physical location of network device . For example in one implementation the host position logic may use a GPS receiver within network device to determine its physical location. In another implementation the host position logic may exchange messages with nearby location sensors to triangulate the physical location of network device . In yet another implementation the host position logic may accept inputs from sensors in network device e.g. an accelerometer and a gyroscope to track network device .

The network device position logic may determine physical locations of other devices in local media network based on messages from the other devices and or user input. In accordance with the DLNA guidelines when network device e.g. mobile device enters local media network network device may discover network addresses of media devices in local media network . After the discovery of media devices the network device position logic may send a request to each of media devices to identify media device s physical location. Media device may include a GPS receiver and or location sensors that enable media device to determine its physical location and allow media device to answer the request with its location information.

Media fade logic may determine distances between network device and media devices based on outputs from the host position logic in network device and network device position logic in network device . Depending on the distances media fade logic may cause a set of media devices to change their operating parameters. For example when network device receives a phone call and media fade logic in network device determines that network device is physically close to media device media fade logic may send a request to media device to turn down the volume of its audio output. Similarly when network devices terminates a call and or media fade logic determines that network device has just moved out of audio range of media device media fade logic may send a request to media device to restore the volume of its audio output prior to the call.

In the example media fade logic may be capable of issuing one or more of commands that pertain to turning on off e.g. black out a video output mute an audio output etc. or turning down e.g. fading out fading in audio video output of media devices restoring the audio video output of media devices buffering a audio video output of media devices playing the buffered audio video output storing information that indicates what part of content in the audio video output has been played when the phone call is received and playing the un played portion of the content etc. In such an implementation the user may configure one or more of such commands to be issued by mobile device via the user interface on mobile device depending on the relative locations of network device e.g. mobile device and media devices . Furthermore via the user interface the user may be able to modify different parameters that pertain to the commands such as the rate of a fade out fade in.

In some implementations the user may be able to select configure via the user interface which commands e.g. turn off audio video output fade in fade out etc. mobile device may issue to media device depending on the relative locations and or the audio output of mobile device and media devices .

Mobile device may discover media device in local media network block . Mobile device may discover media device when mobile device enters local media network by either physically becoming attached to local media network or by entering a region in which mobile device may establish a wireless communication link with a wireless access point WAP for local media network . Mobile device may enter the region by physically being carried into the region while mobile device is powered on or alternatively by being turned on when mobile device is within the region.

In some implementations mobile device may discover media device in accordance with a network communication protocol. For example mobile device may discover media device in accordance with UPnP specifications that are part of the DLNA guidelines protocols.

In such implementations local network logic in mobile device may advertise or broadcast mobile device s presence to media devices in local media network and obtain responses to the advertisements broadcasts from one or more media devices . The responses may include identification information such as a universally unique identifier UUID a Uniform Resource Locator URL or more detailed information etc.

Mobile device may obtain descriptions of media device and services that are provided by media device block . Upon receiving the UUID and or the URL as described above mobile device may access the URL to obtain an extensible markup language XML description of media device and services that are provided by media device . For example the description of media device may indicate that media device corresponds to stereo speakers.

In one implementation the services may include responding to requests that are described above in connection with local network logic e.g. a command to fade out the volume of an audio output of media device a command to fade in the volume of the audio output a command to restore a previous volume of the audio output before the volume has been changed a command to pause video audio output a command to resume the video audio output a command to buffer the audio video output a command to play the buffered audio video output a command to store information that indicates what part of content in the audio video output has been played when the phone call is received and a command to play the un played portion of the content.

As described above the requests may be issued in accordance with SOAP or a protocol compatible with mobile device and media devices .

Mobile device may detect an event related to a change in audio video output of mobile device block . For example mobile device may detect an incoming phone call which initiates the audio video output of mobile device or the end of a call which terminates the audio video output. In another example mobile device may detect when an audio file is being played e.g. playing a sound clip a song etc. .

Media fade logic may obtain physical locations of host mobile device and media device block . Media fade logic may obtain the physical location of mobile device from position logic in mobile device . In addition media fade logic may obtain the physical location of media device from position logic in media device via a communication link.

At block media fade logic may determine the distance between host mobile device and media device block . At block media fade logic may detect a change in the distance between mobile device and media device block .

Media fade logic may cause media device to fade out or restore the audio video output of media device based on the distance and or the change in distance and the event related to the change in audio video output of mobile device block .

As further shown in table may include rows that represent a distance or a change in the distance between mobile device and media device . Row may represent mobile device staying within the range obtained at block of media device . Row may represent mobile device moving from within the range to outside the range of media device . Row may represent mobile device moving from outside the range to within the range of media device 

Table may summarize actions commands that mobile device may perform issue to media devices when mobile device moves in or of the range of media device when the audio video output of mobile device turns on or off or when the audio video output remains turned on and mobile device remains within the range. To illustrate assume that mobile device moves from an area outside the range to within the range of media device e.g. row of table and that mobile device receives a call when mobile device is within the range e.g. column of table . At row and column table may include an instruction or command of FADE indicating that mobile device may cause media device to fade out reduce turn off the audio video output of media device . Fading out the audio or video output of media device may prevent media device from interfering with the audio output of mobile device or prevent the sound from media device from making it difficult for the user of mobile device from communicating with another party.

In another example assume that mobile device stays within the range of media device e.g. row of table and that the audio video output stays on e.g. column . At row and column table may include an instruction command of NOTHING indicating that mobile device may not cause media device to modify the audio video output of media device . Because mobile device has not moved out of the range or changed its audio video output media device s volume which may already be faded may not change.

In yet another example assume that mobile device is initially inside the range of media device and moves out of the range e.g. OUT row . In addition assume that mobile device is engaged in a call while mobile device moves from inside the range to outside the range e.g. column . At row and column table may include an instruction command to RESTORE indicating that mobile device may restore a level of audio video output prior to mobile device s arrival inside the range.

When mobile device fades out audio video output of media device mobile device may store the level of audio video output prior to the fade out. Thus in restoring the audio video output of media device mobile device may use the stored value of the audio video output and signal media device to restore the audio output level to the previous level. If there is no stored value of the level e.g. media device is turned off when a phone call is received mobile device may not restore or change the audio video output of media device . Alternatively media device may store the previous level and return media device to the previous level in response to a command or signal from mobile device .

In some implementations when mobile device detects an event related to audio video output of mobile device and or a change in the distance between mobile device and media device mobile device may cause e.g. by sending a command media device to perform actions other than those related to increasing decreasing volume of an audio output brightness of video output etc. For example in one implementation mobile device may cause media device to pause resume outputting audio video when an audio video event associated with mobile device occurs. In another implementation mobile device may cause media device to buffer a video audio output from a source e.g. from an Internet content provider and or to resume playing the buffered video audio output when an audio video event associated with mobile device occurs.

In yet another implementation mobile device may cause media device to store information that indicates what part of content in the audio video output has been played and or to play the un played part of the content when the video audio event associated with mobile device occurs. For example assume that three people are watching a DVD and one of them receives a call on a mobile device. In such a case the people may not want to pause playing the DVD when the call starts or ends. Instead information about what part of the DVD has been played may be stored so that the person who receives the call may later watch the un played portion of the DVD.

Process may return to block and or to continue to detect media devices and or an event related to a change in the audio video output of mobile device .

The following example with reference to illustrates above described process in which a device interacts intelligently with other devices in local media network .

Max inputs into cell phone a level of volume of sound he expects from a media player when Max receives or places a call on cell phone and a particular range between cell phone and digital television and or speaker e.g. 20 feet . When Max arrives at his house cell phone initiates a discovery of media devices on the local media network. Cell phone discovers television and speaker on the local media network. From URLs that cell phone obtains from digital television and speaker cell phone obtains device and service descriptions of digital television and speaker .

Max leaves his cell phone powered on while he watches digital television . When cell phone detects an incoming call cell phone obtains the physical locations of cell phone digital television and speakers . In addition cell phone determines a distance between cell phone and digital television and a distance between cell phone and speaker .

After determining that cell phone is within the particular range of digital television e.g. 20 feet in this example cell phone exchanges one or more messages with digital television over the local media network to fade out the sound of digital television . When Max moves away from digital television e.g. outside the preset range of 20 feet and toward speaker cell phone detects the movement of cell phone and restores the volume of sound on digital television . If cell phone is within the preset range of speaker cell phone reduces the volume of sound from speaker .

Cell phone continues to change audio outputs of digital television and speaker as Max roams inside his house and converses with the caller.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the teachings.

For example in one implementation mobile device may be able to detect the level of ambient noise and use the detected noise level to adjust the audio video output of media devices . In another implementation mobile device may issue commands for transferring e.g. blending in or blending out the audio video output to from mobile device from to media device e.g. a television with speakers an entertainment center with a microphone a laptop computer with speakers and a display etc. . Some of such commands may pertain to a telephone call as described above and other commands may pertain to different types of audio video output such as playing a song or a movie displaying text etc.

In another example while a series of blocks has been described with regard to an exemplary process illustrated in the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. In addition non dependent blocks may represent acts that can be performed in parallel to other blocks.

It will be apparent that aspects described herein may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement aspects does not limit the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of the aspects were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the aspects based on the description herein.

It should be emphasized that the term comprises comprising when used in this specification is taken to specify the presence of stated features integers steps or components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps components or groups thereof.

Further certain portions of the implementations have been described as logic that performs one or more functions. This logic may include hardware such as a processor a microprocessor an application specific integrated circuit or a field programmable gate array software or a combination of hardware and software.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the invention. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the implementations described herein unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

