---

title: Generating context-based timelines
abstract: Context-based timelines can be generated for an item in an electronic catalog by extracting contextual terms and item events corresponding to the item. The contextual terms can be used to retrieve historical data on historical events from a data repository. The historical data can be associated with at least some of the contextual terms. A context-based timeline can be generated that includes at least some of the historical events. The context-based timeline can be output for presentation to one or more users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08356248&OS=08356248&RS=08356248
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08356248
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080929
---
Electronic commerce is an increasingly popular way of selling products and services referred to herein collectively and interchangeably as items to consumers. Activities of electronic commerce typically but not exclusively include browsing for items to purchase comparing various aspects such as price color warranties and the like of items for purchase inspecting product details of an item purchasing one or more items and the like. The popularity of electronic commerce sometimes referred to as e commerce has prompted more vendors to make their products and services available over electronic networks such as the Internet and computer users have correspondingly embraced electronic commerce as a legitimate shopping environment.

Items that have background information or tell stories such as books movies and television shows are often popular sellers in electronic commerce and traditional commerce. Examples of such items include books movies television shows and the like. These items may presume a certain amount of background knowledge on the part of the user or viewer.

While exploring content such as books movies and the like a user may come across contextual information including characters events and places that relate directly or indirectly to subject matter of the content. Often the author of the content may forego explaining this contextual information. For a user who does not have this background the content may be less enjoyable. Additionally users may wish to acquire additional contextual information as part of the content explanation.

In certain embodiments systems and methods are provided for generating context based timelines for items such as books movies television shows or other pieces of content. The context based timelines can include events described by items and can also include historical events. In certain embodiments the context based timelines are output as part of a display to a user in response to a user request to view a context based timeline. The context based timelines may help users place unfamiliar events in the context of historical events. In addition in certain embodiments context based timelines can be used to compare items and to recommend items.

As used herein the term item is used interchangeably to refer to an item itself e.g. a particular product or service and to its description or representation in an electronic catalog system. As will be apparent from the context in which it is used the term is also sometimes used herein to refer only to the item itself or only to its representation in the catalog system. Likewise specific items such as books movies and television shows are used interchangeably to refer to the respective items themselves and to their description or representation in an electronic catalog system.

For purposes of illustration the methods or processes disclosed herein are described primarily in the context of a network resource such as a web site. However the disclosed processes need not be implemented as part of or in conjunction with a web site. For example the processes described herein can be implemented as one or more applications on any processor based system. In addition for ease of illustration the context based timelines disclosed herein are described primarily in the context of books. However the systems and methods herein may also be used to generate context based timelines for movies television shows magazines video games music and other items.

These systems and methods will now be described with reference to the drawings summarized above. Throughout the drawings reference numbers may be re used to indicate correspondence between referenced elements. The drawings associated descriptions and specific implementation are provided to illustrate embodiments of the inventions described herein and not to limit the scope thereof.

In addition methods and processes described herein are not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks or states relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described blocks or states may be performed in an order other than that specifically disclosed or multiple blocks or states may be combined in a single block or state. Moreover the various modules of the systems described herein can be implemented as software applications hardware and or software modules or components on one or more computers such as servers. While the various modules are illustrated separately they may share some or all of the same underlying logic or code.

Turning to an embodiment of a network environment for generating context based timelines is shown. The network environment includes a context based timeline system that can be implemented using one or more computer systems such as servers. The context based timeline system may also be implemented as a network resource such as a web site or the like. In certain embodiments the context based timeline system generates context based timelines corresponding to target items such as books movies television shows and the like.

The context based timeline system may be accessed by users via user systems . Although shown as personal computers for purposes of illustration the user systems may include various other types of computing devices such as web pads personal digital assistants PDAs mobile phones set top television boxes media players laptop computers tablets desktop computers electronic book readers kiosks and the like. The user systems can include various software applications for accessing the content based timeline system such as browser software applications stand alone software applications plug ins interfaces combinations of the same and the like.

The context based timeline system includes one or more servers for communicating with the user systems over a communications medium which may be a network such as the Internet a local or wide area network LAN or WAN intranet or the like. The servers can be web servers in some embodiments. As web servers the servers can process Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and other protocol requests received over the communications medium from the user systems . Additional protocols and components for providing communication between the user systems and servers via the communication medium may be provided in various implementations.

In response to requests from the user system s the servers can dynamically generate content by accessing a repository of templates which can include display templates that specify the layout and format of user interface displays such as web pages widgets iframes combinations of the same and the like. For example the servers can generate context based timeline displays search engine displays catalog displays item detail displays similar items displays recommendation displays and the like. The servers can populate these templates with information that may be dependent on the particular user system accessing a template as may be determined for example using browser cookies or a login procedure.

The context based timeline system includes a timeline service which can be a software component for generating context based timelines and for presentation to users. The timeline service may also provide a user interface for users to explore items that have similar context based timelines. The timeline service may be accessed by the user systems through the servers .

The timeline service can generate context based timelines for items by obtaining contextual terms about items from a data repository . The contextual terms may be retrieved from data about an item or user generated data. The contextual terms can correspond to item events that relate to an item such as may be described in the text of a book or in the text of a user generated review about the book. The contextual terms may also include themes from theme data related to the item that may not necessarily be described by the item or user generated data. The theme data may be obtained for example from behavioral data regarding related items categories the item is placed in and the like. The timeline service can use at least some of the contextual terms to retrieve historical data for the items from the data repository . The historical data may include data on historical events. Thus the timeline service may retrieve historical events that are related to the context of an item. The retrieval of the contextual terms and historical data is described below in greater detail with respect to .

The timeline service may generate a context based timeline that includes the historical events. The timeline service may also include at least some of the contextual terms on the timeline so that item events described by the item are placed in a visual context with historical events. The timeline service may generate context based timelines in a variety of forms such as digital timelines that may be presented on a display to a user or timelines that may be printed out and provided to a user along with a purchased item. Other example forms and configurations of context based timelines are described below with respect to .

As described above the timeline service can also provide an interface for users to compare items that have similar timelines. To facilitate user comparisons between similar items similar items can be detected using a similarity mining module . In certain embodiments the similarity mining module detects similarities between timelines stored in the data repository . The similarity mining module can detect these similarities by determining a degree to which timelines item events and or historical events overlap. The similarity mining module can assign a degree of similarity between items based at least in part on the degree of similarity between their timelines. The degree of similarity between items can be scored or otherwise weighted.

The similarities and their scores may be stored by the similarity mining module in one or more similar items tables . Then when a user requests to view one or more items that are similar to another item the timeline service can retrieve one or more similar items from the similar items tables . The timeline service may then output a most highly ranked subset of the similar items optionally along with their timelines. An example display of similar items and their timelines is described below with respect to .

A recommendation service is also included in the example context based timeline system . The recommendations service includes a timeline recommender that can generate personalized item recommendations for users. To generate recommendations the timeline recommender may analyze user preference data stored in a data repository to determine for example what items the user has viewed or purchased. The timeline recommender may then look up one or more of these purchased or viewed items in the similar items tables . The timeline recommender can therefore find items that are similar to the items purchased or viewed by the user based on the items respective timelines. Then the timeline recommender can recommend to a user a subset of the similar items such as a most highly ranked subset based at least in part on their similarity scores.

The depicted embodiment of the timeline service includes a timeline generator and a timeline navigator . The timeline generator can be a software component that generates context based timelines. The timeline navigator can be a software component that provides a user interface for users to explore similar items and their context based timelines.

The timeline generator can generate context based timelines for items by obtaining contextual terms about items from item data user generated data and or theme data. The timeline generator can use at least part of the contextual terms to retrieve historical data for the items. The timeline generator can then generate a timeline using the historical data and also optionally one or more of the contextual terms. The timeline generator can obtain the item data the user generated data and the historical data from the data repository . The timeline generator may also perform certain preprocessing steps which are described below.

The item data may include contextual term information or may be used to identify or generate contextual term information. The data repository shown can be a database or the like that includes item data user generated data and historical data. For ease of illustration the data repository is shown storing multiple types of data. However the data of the data repository may be stored in multiple data repositories in other embodiments.

The item data can include metadata of an item. This metadata might include a publisher s description of an item categories in which the item is placed within a catalog hierarchy a title of an item and the like. The item data can also include the information conveyed by an item. In the case of books for example the item data can therefore include at least a portion of the actual text of the books.

The user generated data in the data repository may include any data about the items generated by users. For example the user generated data can include written reviews of items textual tags plot summaries of items and the like. In addition the user generated data may also include information obtained from web logs blogs that may discuss items and information obtained from collaborative discussion sites such as wikis forums and the like that foster discussion about items.

The historical data in the data repository can include information regarding historical events and historical characters as well as data on dates places and the like. For example the historical data can include information on world events such as scientific discoveries wars colonizations and the like. Example historical characters might include Winston Churchill Mahatma Gandhi and Babe Ruth. The historical data may include data for actual and fictional events and or characters. The events of the historical data may also be associated with dates on which the events occurred.

As mentioned above the timeline generator may perform certain pre processing actions prior to generating context based timelines. For example the timeline generator can obtain the historical data from online reference works such as encyclopedias dictionaries and the like and can store the historical data in the data repository . To obtain the historical data from online references works the timeline generator may retrieve text from the online reference works for example by crawling the online reference works. The timeline generator may also obtain the historical data from the text of electronic books e.g. books scanned using optical character recognition software or from other item data stored in the data repository .

The timeline generator may create historical associations between events characters in the historical data and subject tags representing historical subjects. The timeline generator can initially obtain the subject tags by analyzing the reference works and or other item data for subject information. The timeline generator may for instance access a browse tree of an online encyclopedia to discover subjects and assign each subject a subject tag. Further the timeline generator can detect historical associations between events characters described in the online references and the subject tags. The timeline generator can detect these historical associations based on which words representing events characters are mentioned in connection with subjects. For example the timeline generator may determine that events such as the creation of basketball and characters such as James Naismith the creator of basketball should be associated with the subject tag history of sports. 

The timeline generator can weight the historical associations between subject tags and words representing events characters. In one embodiment the timeline generator weights the associations according to a frequency with which the words are mentioned in connection with the subjects. Thus if the phrase NBA Championship is mentioned more frequently than the phrase Rugby World Cup in connection with the subject American sports the timeline generator may give a higher weight to the association between NBA Championship and American sports. The historical associations and related weights can be represented as scores rankings or the like. The timeline generator may store the historical associations in a data structure such as one or more database tables in the data repository .

While certain actions of the timeline generator have been described above as pre processing steps the timeline generator may also perform these actions concurrently while performing other actions. For example the timeline generator may update the historical data or historical associations in the historical data while concurrently generating context based timelines. The timeline generator may also perform these pre processing steps on a periodic or aperiodic basis during off peak processing times. For example the timeline generator may update the historical data and historical associations in the historical data once daily.

To generate a context based timeline the timeline generator may obtain contextual terms from the data repository . The contextual terms can include words and phrases from the item data user generated data and or theme data that are related to an item. The timeline generator can for example mine contextual terms from the electronic text of a book stored as item data . The timeline generator can use keyword processing algorithms such as identifying statistically improbable phrases to mine the contextual terms from a larger body of text. In certain embodiments the timeline generator can focus on dates or times described in the text. Additionally the timeline generator can focus on capitalized words in the text. The timeline generator may for example select the contextual terms from a sentence paragraph or page containing the dates or times.

The timeline generator can also determine the context of the item based on other item data such as the book s title or categories the book is placed in within an electronic catalog. In another aspect the timeline generator can determine the context of the item by obtaining contextual terms from the user generated data. For example the user generated data might include textual tags that describe the context of a book or reviews that describe the plot of the book.

The timeline generator can score or rank the contextual terms based on the frequency with which they occur in the item data or user generated data. In addition the score or ranking of the terms can depend on their source. For example a contextual term derived from a category might be ranked more highly than a contextual term derived from a user generated tag.

To illustrate the timeline generator might obtain contextual terms from a biography about Henry Kissinger. These contextual terms might include words from the text of the biography such as politics Vietnam and so forth. The timeline generator can also obtain further terms from a U.S. Politics category that the book is placed in within a catalog hierarchy. The timeline generator can also obtain terms from user generated data which might include tags such as Vietnam Cold War and President Nixon. If the timeline generator finds duplicate contextual terms the timeline generator can remove the duplicates prior to conducting further processing.

Using some or all of the contextual terms the timeline generator can select historical events that are related to the contextual terms from the historical data. The timeline generator may look up each contextual term in the historical data to determine which terms in the historical data match each contextual term. The timeline generator may then identify which subject tags are associated with the matching terms and their respective weightings. In effect by finding matching terms the timeline generator can associate the contextual terms with the subject tags. Referring again to the above example the timeline generator might find that the contextual term Vietnam is associated with subject tags such as Southeast Asian Countries 20th Century Wars Rice Exporting Countries. 

The timeline generator may select at least a subset of the subject tags. For each selected subject tag the timeline generator can select historical events characters associated with the selected subject tags based on their weightings. Referring again to the example above various historical events and or characters associated with the subject tag 20th Century Wars such as the Vietnam War Douglas MacArthur and so on might be selected based on their weightings. In certain embodiments the timeline generator assembles a data structure of the events characters and their respective weightings.

The timeline generator may in some cases exclude certain subject tags and or historical events characters from being associated with the contextual terms. For example even though characters such as Babe Ruth in the subject tag 20th Century Historical Figures may be associated with Henry Kissinger the timeline generator can exclude all historical events characters that are not related for example to the subject tag Foreign Affairs. Or the timeline generator may exclude specific subject tags such as Sports. 

The timeline generator can use the weightings of the historical associations between the contextual terms and subject tags to rank the selected historical events. From this ranking the timeline generator can select a subset of the retrieved historical events to include on the context based timeline. The timeline generator can then build the context based timeline by ordering the subset of historical events chronologically based on dates associated with the historical events. If no or few historical associations are found based on the contextual terms a pre generated set of historical events may be provided for the item s context based timeline. The pre generated set of historical events might include significant events of the 20th century for example.

In one embodiment the timeline generator can allow a user to control the granularity of historical events displayed on the context based timeline. For example the timeline generator can provide a user interface control that enables a user to request additional details of a specific period of time on the context based timeline such as the 1960s. The user interface control may be a zoom control or the like that allows the user to selectively view fewer or more details. In response to the user request the timeline generator might include events on the context based timeline that have successively lower rankings as the user requests additional details to be shown.

The timeline generator may also incorporate item events described by an item into the context based timeline. These item events can include events that occurred in the story or description of the item. For example item events in a biography might include certain events of an individual s life described in the biography. The item events might instead include the titles of one or more chapters in a book. The timeline generator may obtain the item events from the contextual terms for example by identifying statistically improbable phrases counting the frequency of those phrases in the text and selecting most frequently occurring phrases as item events. In addition the timeline generator can identify item events based at least in part on capitalized terms in the text. Examples of item events are illustrated below with respect to .

The timeline generator can place the item events in the context based timeline alongside the historical events. The timeline generator can list the item events chronologically on the timeline. The timeline generator may adjust the size color font presentation or the like of selected item and or historical events to selectively indicate possible relevance of the events. For example if an event is obtained from a blog entry from an unknown user the event may appear on the timeline with a different color font or different size than other events. A single context based timeline can also be generated for multiple items such as a set of books in the trilogy. In addition the context based timelines can be vertical or horizontal or a combination thereof.

The timeline generator can generate electronic timelines in a variety of forms. For example the electronic timelines can be vertical or horizontal or a combination thereof. The timeline generator can output the timeline for display to a user upon a user s request to view a timeline for an item. The timeline generator can also be used to print timelines and include them with items shipped to users. In another embodiment the timeline generator can generate collaborative discussion pages such as wikis that allow users to edit electronic timelines generated initially by the timeline generator . Moreover an application programming interface API may be provided for users to use for uploading timelines to the timeline service . The timeline generator may also store the electronic timelines in a data repository .

As mentioned above the timeline navigator can provide users with access to the context based timelines stored in the data repository . For example while a user is browsing items in an electronic catalog using a catalog service or the like the user might wish to view a context based timeline of an item. In response to a timeline view request from a user the timeline navigator can access the timeline from the repository and output the timeline for display to the user. In addition in certain embodiments users may use the timeline navigator to compare items based on their timelines. For example users may compare timelines of two different items to get a sense of similarities and differences between those items. Users can compare timelines of different types of items such as books and movies or music and television shows.

Users may also compare an item s timeline against a master timeline. In certain embodiments the timeline generator can generate master timelines that include a set of historical events derived from the historical data but that are not based on the context of an item. Master timelines may also be manually generated. An example of a master timeline might include a timeline of major events in the 1970s. Users may overlap or merge context based timelines with master timelines. Users may also overlap or merge similar timelines. Merging timelines may facilitate comparisons between timelines or items. In one embodiment when timelines are merged together events from each timeline may be displayed differently such as with different colors.

In other embodiments the timeline navigator can present a user interface that allows a user to select items based on a date or date range one or more characters historical events categories combinations of the same or the like. As one example a user might wish to view books in a category of music history that cover a date range of 1800 to 1850. In response to the user s selection the timeline navigator can retrieve items whose timelines include events that correspond to the user s selection.

In addition as described above with respect to the timeline navigator can provide a user interface for comparing items having similar timelines. For example the timeline navigator can retrieve similar items from the similar items table or tables . The similarities between these similar items may be detected by the similarity minding module . An example of a user interface for exploring similar items and context based timelines is described below with respect to .

At block contextual terms can be extracted from data corresponding to an item. The contextual terms can include words and phrases from item data and or from user generated data related to the item. The contextual terms can also include the name of a category that an item is placed in within an electronic catalog. In addition item events can be selected from the contextual terms at block . The item events can include events that are described by the item such as in the text of the item.

At block historical data related to the contextual terms can be retrieved. The historical data can include information regarding historical events historical characters as well as data on dates places and the like. A timeline may then be generated at block using the item events and the historical data. The timeline may include a graphical representation of the item events and the historical data. As one example item events may be interspersed with historical events on a single timeline. As another example separate timelines can be created for item events and historical events. The timeline may be a single line with events and dates listed alongside the line or the line can be more complex with different colors indicating item events and historical events. In some embodiments item events are not included on the timeline. Many variations on the graphical configuration of the timelines may also be used.

At block the timeline may be output for presentation to the user. The timeline can be provided to the user electronically such as on a network resource e.g. web page on a collaborative discussion e.g. wiki page or the like. The timelines can be provided upon user request or may be automatically provided when a user selects an item for viewing. In another embodiment the timeline can also be provided as a printout which may be delivered along with the item to the user. In another embodiment the timeline can be delivered electronically to the user on an electronic book computer system.

A request to view items with similar timelines to a first item selected by a user can be received at block . The user may initiate the request indirectly by selecting an item. Alternatively the user may directly request a context based timeline by selecting a timeline user interface control which may be a button hyperlink or the like.

At block one or more similar items with similar timelines to the timeline of the first items can be retrieved. For example the similar items may be retrieved from pre generated similar items data. The similar items data may be generated in a separate process from the process . In an embodiment the similar items data is generated by comparing the timelines of items to determine which timelines are similar with other timelines. Pairs of items that have relatively more similarities between timelines may be considered to be more similar than pairs of items with relatively fewer similarities between timelines. The generation of similar items data may be performed by the similarities mining module or .

A subset of items with similar timelines can be selected at block and the subset of items may be output for display to the user at block . The subset of items may include one or more items with similar timelines. The one or more similar items may be displayed with or without their corresponding timelines.

For purposes of illustration the context based timeline display is shown as a graphical user interface in a web browser . The context based timeline display could instead be displayed within a separate application from a browser. In addition while an example layout of the context based timeline display is shown the layout may be varied substantially in various embodiments.

The context based timeline display illustrates two timelines namely a first timeline for a book selected by a user and a second timeline for a similar book with a similar timeline . The timeline is for a book entitled and the timeline is for a book entitled 1945 to 1995. The timeline includes book events which are item events derived from data about the book. The book events include events in Henry Kissinger s life such as his birth his becoming a U.S. citizen and so on. The timeline also includes book events . However the book events are the titles of chapters within the book. These example chapters include The Cold War Begins Containment Policy and so on. The choice of using chapters as the book events is for illustrative purposes only each of the timelines might show the same or different types of book events in other embodiments.

Historical events are also included on each timeline . The historical events shown are associated with the book events to create the timeline for each book. As described above these historical events may be chosen based on their degree of association with the book or item events . Thus in the example display shown the timeline includes certain historical events from the 20th century that correspond to Henry Kissinger s lifetime including the Great Depression World War II and the Vietnam War. Similarly the timeline includes historical events that correspond to the book events

Other user interface controls are provided in the depicted embodiment including Add to Cart buttons that allow a user to purchase a displayed book. Next to the timeline a button labeled Select New Book allows a user to browse for other books. In addition a More Similar Books button allows a user to browse for other books that are similar to one or both of the books shown.

In the depicted embodiment the historical events are underlined indicating that the historical events represent hyperlinks to other documents. In certain embodiments these historical event hyperlinks when selected can cause a separate document or display to be retrieved. This separate document or display may contain additional information about the selected historical event. The document or display provided might be a page of an online reference work such as an encyclopedia. Alternatively selecting a historical event hyperlink can cause a search for items to be performed in a search engine using the words of the historical event. Upon completion of the search the search results may be provided to a user.

The example display illustrates one possible configuration for comparing similar items such as books. The display may be varied in many ways. For instance the display could include more than two books. The display could also superimpose the timelines upon each other. The timelines might be displayed horizontally in other embodiments. In addition while timelines for books are shown other items may be compared based on timelines . As described above movies television shows magazines video games music and other items may be compared based on their timelines . Moreover different types of items may be compared based on their timelines for example books may be compared to movies and movies may be compared to video games. Many other configurations are possible in various embodiments.

The context based timeline displays illustrate timelines including a first timeline and a second timeline . The timelines both correspond to the same book a book entitled . In addition chronology controls are provided for adjusting the chronological ordering of the timelines . The chronological controls are radio buttons in the depicted embodiment. The chronological controls may be selected by a user to view the timelines based on the chronological order of book events or based on ordering of related historical events.

In the radio button of the chronology controls next to Book Chronology is selected. Thus the timeline is ordered according to the book events . In the depicted embodiment the book events are the chapters of the book. The historical events on the other hand are not listed in chronological order as may be the case with many books. A user may however wish to see how the book events correspond to chronological ordering of historical events . To illustrate this different ordering a user may select the radio button of the chronological controls next to Historical Chronology. One possible effect of such a user action is illustrated in where the timeline is ordered based on historical events

The historical events are shaded based on their chronological ordering so as to facilitate a reader s understanding of the ordering of historical events . Events occurring earlier in time are shaded more lightly than events occurring later in time. In other embodiments colors may be used instead of shading. For example earlier historical events may be depicted in a green color and later historical events may be depicted as red. Intervening historical events may have colors that are in between green and red with later events being increasingly redder. However the colors and shadings described herein are merely illustrative many other colors shadings and or combinations thereof may be used in other embodiments.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can could might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Each of the processes components and algorithms described above may be embodied in and fully automated by code modules executed by one or more computers or computer processors. The code modules may be stored on any type of computer readable medium or computer storage device. The processes and algorithms may also be implemented partially or wholly in application specific circuitry. The results of the disclosed processes and process steps may be stored persistently or otherwise in any type of computer storage. In one embodiment the code modules may be configured to execute on one or more processors including sub processors. In addition the code modules may comprise but are not limited to any of the following software or hardware components such as software object oriented software components class components and task components processes methods functions attributes procedures subroutines segments of program code drivers firmware microcode circuitry data databases data structures tables arrays variables combinations of the same and the like.

The various features and processes described above may be used independently of one another or may be combined in various ways. All possible combinations and subcombinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. In addition certain method or process steps may be omitted in some implementations.

While certain embodiments of the inventions disclosed herein have been described these embodiments have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the inventions disclosed herein. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms furthermore various omissions substitutions and changes in the form of the methods and systems described herein may be made without departing from the spirit of the inventions disclosed herein. The accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and spirit of certain of the inventions disclosed herein.

