---

title: User interfaces and methods to provision electronic facsimiles
abstract: Embodiments of the invention relate generally to computing devices and systems, as well as software, computer programs, applications, and user interfaces, and more particularly, to provisioning electronic fax messages in a communication network including packetized and/or synchronous communications. According to one embodiment, a messaging can receive data representing an electronic document in a file format into a messaging system, convert fax components to a fax compatible format including the electronic document in the file format to form converted fax components, determine whether to generate an electronic facsimile to include the fax components as a pre-rendered electronic facsimile, and transmit the electronic facsimile as the pre-rendered electronic facsimile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08792118&OS=08792118&RS=08792118
owner: RingCentral Inc.
number: 08792118
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080919
---
This application claims the benefit U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 995 573 entitled User Interfaces and Methods to Provision Electronic Facsimiles and filed on Sep. 26 2007 which is herein incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Embodiments of the invention relate generally to computing devices and systems as well as software computer programs applications and user interfaces and more particularly to provisioning electronic fax messages in a communication network for packetized and or synchronous communications.

Typically conventional electronic faxes are transmitted without regard to time or day or availability of fax transmission resources. While traditional techniques for generating electronic faxes are functional there are certain drawbacks to these techniques. Drawbacks include limited flexibility in generating and transmitting electronic facsimiles that otherwise can might hinder the efficacy of computing systems to deliver electronic messages such as electronic facsimiles.

It would be desirable to provide computing devices and systems as well as software computer programs applications and user interfaces that minimize one or more of the drawbacks associated with conventional techniques for generating transmitting and or administering electronic faxes.

Like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings. Note that most of the reference numerals include one or two left most digits that generally identify the figure that first introduces that reference number.

In the context of provisioning an electronic facsimile interface can be configured to implement a message input field to attach an electronic document as part of electronic facsimile . Message input field can be configured to use electronic documents regardless of the file format of electronic document by using interface . Interface can be configured to create and send faxes between any repositories over packetized and or synchronous communication networks. In one example interface can be presented on a display for a computing device coupled to message composition logic which can be a web server not shown . As such message composition logic can include libraries of style sheets and formats as well as other sample electronic facsimile material which can include data representing components of an electronic facsimile. Facsimile data representing electronic document a destination number e.g. fax number and a cover page among other things can be uploaded or pushed to messaging system via an HTTP connection for example through packet network . In another example interface can be presented on a display for a client application from which the facsimile data can be updated by a differential synchronization server or module not shown . In still another example interface can be presented on a display for an email application in which a fax polling server or module not shown can periodically poll and pull the facsimile data. Or the facsimile data can be delivered e.g. using a protocol such as SMTP via a store and forward server or module not shown using a protocol such as POP3.

In the example shown messaging system includes a repository pre rendered electronic message s that stores at least pre rendered electronic messages such as electronic facsimiles and or electronic documents a format converter and message composition logic any of which can be implemented in one or more servers and or any number of software modules distributed in a system of one or more servers. Responsive to user input selections entered in relation to a portion of interface message composition logic can be configured to in whole or in part perform one or more of the following actions in relation to electronic facsimiles compose store route and or send faxes. In at least one embodiment format converter can be configured to convert the format of electronic document into another format that is suitable for transmitting to a specific a communication device regardless of whether the communicator device is compatible with T.30 T.38 or any other protocols or standards. In a specific embodiment format converter can format electronic document as an attachment into for example a device independent bitmap format either for storage in repository as a pre rendered message or a portion thereof or for immediate delivery by dynamically rendering electronic document into the device independent bitmap format in real time or substantially in real time for sending as a dynamically rendered message or portion thereof .

While shows packet networks and and switched network any communications network can be used. For example private and or public internet and switching networks can be used such as IP networks including protocols TCP UDP HTTP etc. and switched networks including public switched telephone networks PSTN or the like as well as cellular short message service SMS and other wireless networks. 

As used herein the term electronic facsimile refers generally at least in one embodiment to an electronic message that can be formed to include an electronic document in compliance with specific protocols such as those associated with ITU T.30 and T.38 or the like. An electronic facsimile can be formed by generating one or more associations among fax components so that they can be combined to produce an electronic facsimile. Examples of fax components include data representing content such as that in an electronic document a fax number and time and date stamp a cover sheet and the like. In some cases the data representing a fax component can be affixed as part of the electronic facsimile e.g. during dynamic rendering whereas in other cases the fax components can be separable from the electronic facsimile and combined prior to transmission or after transmission. For example an attached electronic document and a cover sheet as separate fax components can be pre rendered either separately to form pre rendered portions of an electronic facsimile or in combination to form a single pre rendered portion of the electronic facsimile. In some embodiments a time and date stamp can be appended to the pre rendered portion s as pre rendered message is being transmitted as electronic facsimile . When affixed the fax data can be stored within a common data file as the electronic facsimile such as a pre rendered electronic facsimile whereas separable fax data can be stored as separate files in one or more locations in messaging system . As used herein in some instances the term fax data can be used to describe a fax component. As used herein the term electronic document can refer at least in one embodiment to any data file e.g. other than computer programs or system files that are intended to be used in their electronic form without necessarily being printed whereby computer networks and electronic display technologies can help facilitate their use and distribution. In one embodiment an electronic document can be included in an electronic message such as an electronic facsimile. As used herein the term panel at least in one embodiment can refer to displays palettes tabs windows screens portions of an interface and the like. As used herein the term pre rendered at least in one embodiment refers to the formation and or conversion of one or more fax components into a format compatible for transmission of electronic messages including electronic facsimiles via a telecommunication network. Examples of compatible formats include T.30 and T.38 compatible formats such as TIFF and PDF. Other compatible formats can be used to transmit electronic facsimiles in accordance to various embodiments. As used herein the term dynamically rendered refers generally at least in one embodiment to rendering one or more fax components in real time or nearly real time into a compatible fax format during the transmission and or receipt of an electronic facsimile.

In operation facsimile transmission requests arrive from any of a multiple interfaces to one of three functional servers Web Synchronization and Fax Polling servers according to one embodiment. Note that the capabilities of these three servers can be hosted in an enterprise or a datacenter. These servers can be configured to upload requests for electronic facsimiles to the hosted Database via a database or any other interface . As an implementation example the Web Synchronization and Fax Polling servers can include an application library API . Each of Web Synchronization and Fax Polling servers can be configured to invoke the library in relation to an API. For example the API can be configured to invoke a client interface to transmit a fax record to the Database .

Referring back Database server can operate to invoke stored procedures to record the fax records in a Database schema compatible with Database or can send the fax material to either a Rendering server or to a Message server or both. The Database can reference the corresponding fax content files in Message Server via a URL or a mounted drive such as e fax folder 1934567890.fax. Thus a fax policy record can be stored in a Database server schema and this fax policy record can specify the fax content file on a Message server . Then rendering server can pre format the fax content and update the content on the Message server or on the Database server . A fax content file can include data representing either an electronic document or an electronic facsimile or both or any portions thereof. In instances when a fax file e.g. an electronic facsimile is not pre formatted e.g. not pre rendered then a Fax Router or a Fax server can format e.g. dynamically render the electronic facsimile while transferring or while transmitting the fax.

At a scheduled or at a first available time the Database server can request that Fax Router select a preferred fax delivery route and corresponding fax delivery resources such as a Fax server . Using a protocol the Fax Router sends a multicast or a broadcast request to a network and selects the first responding Fax Router resource to reply to the request. The Fax Router can forward the fax content to the Fax server or can send the Fax server pointers to stored fax material e.g. electronic facsimile . The Fax server can request or can pull the fax material from a Database or from a Message server to access the fax delivery route priority and the fax document material.

The Fax server then can initiate a call to a switching service such as the telephone line T.30 server via or to a network service such as the Internet T.38 server via . In one embodiment the T.38 server requests a telephone line T.30 server to initiate a telephone call while the T.38 server negotiates a fax transfer rate and sends the fax material.

The Fax user interface can be displayed on the Subscriber s computing device using a web server or a computing device including client application . The fax number and any cover page data and electronic documents to be faxed can be composed on the computing device on the web server or can be selected from libraries of style sheets e.g. data describing how to format the presentation of text and graphics and other sample fax material.

When composed the fax material e.g. electronic facsimile can be uploaded pushed to FAX Messaging system via HTTP . Or the data representing or association with an electronic facsimile can be updated by a synchronization server . In one embodiment synchronization server is a differential synchronization server which can be configured to perform differential synchronization techniques to keep two or more copies of the same electronic message including an electronic facsimile synchronized with each other in real time or substantially in real time . As such differential synchronization server can be configured to check against a record residing at client for any revised content relating to a record not shown for the same electronic message or electronic facsimile stored in message system such as in for example database . In one instance data for an electronic facsimile can be periodically polled and pulled by a Fax Polling server or can be delivered using a common protocol SMTP via a store and forward server SMTP or POP3 server using a specialized protocol POP3 .

Prior to sending a fax either computing device or a hosted server such as any of servers or can contact a Security server with a secure protocol . The Security server can locally look up and validate the Subscriber FAX account permissions or can access an external database to do so. The Security server can ask for subscriber credentials and can return an authorization ticket with for example a secure Fax SubscriberID and expiration date time stamp. Therefore Fax permissions can be customized for a subscriber e.g. a user for durations depending upon various conditions such as account balance day of week network usage.

In one embodiment an authorization ticket can be returned to the originating fax server and . Upon receipt of the ticket the fax server and validates the SubscriberID against the encrypted ticket. If the validation succeeds then any server and can check if the Subscriber s account is in a Fax Messaging Database and if not then the Subscriber information can be added thereto to form a new Subscriber account record in the Database . Then any of servers and can send the fax data to the Database . Fax delivery information can be stored in the Database and any fax document can be stored in a Message Server . Otherwise the fax data and delivery information can be stored in a Message Server or in a Fax Router .

Data representing fax content can include a cover page content pages and or attached documents such as an electronic document. Attached electronic documents can be in any of a various recognized formats such as shown in . Attached documents can be pre rendered into common fax format by a Rendering server which places the documents in for example a device independent bitmap format and stores the documents in the a Database or in an external Message server . Otherwise the documents can be dynamically rendered when transmitting from a Fax server a switched network server for example a T.30 server or at a network packet server for example a T.38 server .

In some examples logic module can be configured to control panel generator to interact with a messaging system configured to present options to for example provide for customizable generation and transmission of electronic messages such as electronic facsimiles. Rendering engine can be configured to operate as a layout engine for web pages for example to manipulate both content e.g. as expressed in or including HTML XML image files etc. and formatting information e.g. as expressed in or including CSS XSL etc. for rendering the data or information as one or more panels on interfaces described herein. Interface module can exchange panel presentation data including content data image data audio data as well as other data between application and another application e.g. a host client web services based distributed i.e. enterprise application programming interface API operating system program procedure or others that can use data and information generated from panel generator to render presented panels on a display screen. In other examples the above described techniques and elements can be varied in design implementation and function and are not limited to the descriptions provided. In one embodiment logic module can include messaging manager module that is configured to include structure and or functionality similar to one or more previously described messaging systems and or components thereof. For example logic module can also include a format converter Frmt Con module and a message composition logic Mess Comp module both of which can be configured to be accessed via an interface. For example format converter module can be accessed to format electronic documents and fax components into fax compatible formats and the like and message composition logic module can be accessed to create modify and or route electronic facsimiles.

In some examples logic module and panel generator can be implemented as part of application which can be implemented separately from other functional components or modules such as interface module display module rendering module and repository . Data bus can be implemented to communicate data over a given port between application and interface module display module rendering module and repository . In some instances application can be implemented as a standalone application or as a component i.e. module of another application. Data or information e.g. content or file data including data representing fax components fax scheduling information fax notification policies routing rules and the like associated with a panel can be stored in repository which can be implemented using a database data store data warehouse or any other type of data repository or structure. In other examples more fewer or different modules can be used to implement the described techniques for panel presentation and are not limited to those provided.

According to some examples computer system performs specific operations in which processor executes one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions can be read into system memory from another computer readable medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In some examples hard wired circuitry can be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation. In the example shown system memory includes modules of executable instructions for implementing an operation system O S an application and a messaging manager module which in turn can implement a format converter module and message composition logic to provide the functionalities described herein.

The term computer readable medium and computer readable media refer at least in one embodiment to any medium or media that participate in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium or media can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of electromagnetic acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In some examples execution of the sequences of instructions can be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. links to LAN PSTN or wireless network can perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system can transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program code i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code can be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution. In one embodiment system or a portion thereof can be implemented as a hand held device such as a mobile phone . But in other embodiments system can be implemented as a personal computer i.e. a desk top computer or any other computing device.

In the example shown system memory can include modules of executable instructions for implementing an messaging system transceiver module that is configured to communicate with messaging systems described herein. In one embodiment system or a portion thereof can be implemented as a hand held device such as a mobile phone . But in other embodiments system can be implemented as a personal computer i.e. a desk top computer or any other computing device. Messaging system transceiver module can use digital transmission cellular circuitry e.g. communication interface to transmit data representing user inputs for creating and transmitting electronic facsimiles along with or separate from e.g. in parallel or in series call data sent over any of the multiple networks including IP and digital cellular networks.

In some examples one or more panels for the generation and transmission of electronic messages and or call communication e.g. using interface for connecting calls sending electronic messages etc. can be presented on interface which can be an interface for an application such as a video and audio editing application or as a web browsing program Internet content portal client or desktop application for any purpose. Panels can be used to provide additional or supplemental information that can be contextually relevant to another panel presented in interface . Computer notebook computer notebook or laptop smart phone personal digital assistant PDA server and administrator computer can provide content data for rendering content as well as other data which can be implemented to generate for example user inputs configured to accept data to generate and transmit electronic messages such as electronic facsimiles and to answer and make phone calls. In some cases an operating system installed on computer can communicate i.e. via an application programming interface API content data and or other related data to another application installed on computer to render i.e. interpreting data and information to draw or display the content in an interface one or more panels presented in interface . In some examples different types of panels can be rendered in interface . In one embodiment interface can include any number and or any type of display environments such as CRT and LCD displays. Note that the above described system and elements can be varied and are not limited to the descriptions or examples provided.

In at least some of the embodiments of the invention the structures and or functions of any of the above described interfaces and panels can be implemented in software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. Note that the structures and constituent elements shown in as well as their functionality can be aggregated with one or more other structures or elements. Alternatively the elements and their functionality can be subdivided into constituent sub elements if any. As software the above described described techniques can be implemented using various types of programming or formatting languages frameworks syntax applications protocols objects or techniques including C Objective C C C Flex Fireworks Java Javascript AJAX COBOL Fortran ADA XML HTML DHTML XHTML HTTP XMPP and others. These can be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.

In accordance with at least one embodiment an example of a method can include displaying an interface having an input field to accept user input generating an electronic facsimile responsive to the user input and transmitting the electronic facsimile over switched networks or packet networks. Optionally the method can include associating one or more electronic components with the electronic facsimile and converting the format of the electronic components into another format. Optionally the method can include accepting the electronic facsimile components form a softphone forming the electronic components into a facsimile in a message system and accepting transmission of the electronic facsimile association with an email. Optionally the method can include making known meta definition language formats collecting populated meta definition language formats and converting populated meta definition language formats into facsimile components. Optionally the method can include one or more of the following accepting dual tone multi frequency and audio selections and audio dictation in response to media prompts to populate facsimile components and converting audio dictation into text to augment the facsimile components.

In accordance with at least one embodiment a messaging system can include a repository for storing electronic messages and a plurality of servers configured to compose an electronic facsimile as one of the electronic messages and convert the format of the electronic facsimile. In another embodiment a computer readable medium can include executable instructions to display an interface having an input field to accept user input generate an electronic facsimile responsive to the user input that is configured to transmit over switched networks or packet networks associate an electronic document with the electronic facsimile and convert the format of the electronic document into another format. In still yet another embodiment a computer readable medium can include executable instructions to display an interface having input fields to accept sending user notification device and policy selections generate notifications on error conditions and completed fax transmissions according to sending user device and policy selections and repeat notifications until sending user confirmation. In one embodiment a computer readable medium can include executable instructions to display an interface having input fields to accept receiving user notification device and policy selections generate notifications of attempted and completed fax transmissions according to sending user device and policy selections and repeat notifications until receiving user confirmation.

In at least some of the embodiments of the invention the structures and or functions of any of the above described interfaces and panels can be implemented in software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. Note that the structures and constituent elements shown throughout as well as their functionality can be aggregated with one or more other structures or elements.

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. In fact this description should not be read to limit any feature or aspect of the present invention to any embodiment rather features and aspects of one embodiment can readily be interchanged with other embodiments.

Thus the foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed many alternatives modifications equivalents and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the embodiments has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description. Thus the various embodiments can be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims. Further the embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications they thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. Notably not every benefit described herein need be realized by each embodiment of the present invention rather any specific embodiment can provide one or more of the advantages discussed above. In the claims elements and or operations do not imply any particular order of operation unless explicitly stated in the claims. It is intended that the following claims and their equivalents define the scope of the invention.

