---

title: Method for a microfluidic weaklink device
abstract: The present invention relates to an electrokinetic (EK) pump capable of creating high pressures electroosmotically, and capable of retaining high pressures. Both pressure creation and retention are accomplished without the need for moving parts. The EK pump uses a polymerizable fluid that creates the pressure-retaining seal within the EK pump when polymerization is initiated, typically by exposure to UV radiation. Weaklink devices are advantageously constructed including such a pressure-retaining EK pump since, among other advantages, the response of the weaklink device relies on predictable and reliable chemical polymerization reactions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07625474&OS=07625474&RS=07625474
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 07625474
owner_city: Livermore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081103
---
This application is a Continuation application of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 021 281 now abandoned originally filed Dec. 23 2004 and entitled Microfluidic Weaklink Device from which priority is claimed and which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under government contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention including a paid up license and the right in limited circumstances to require the owner of any patent issuing on this invention to license others on reasonable terms.

This invention relates generally to the field of weaklink devices and more particularly to weaklink devices including electrokinetic pumps and to electrokinetic pumps suitable modified for use as weaklinks as well as for other purposes.

There are many examples in commercial and military applications of the transmission or management of large amounts of energy under the control of safety critical systems. These control systems must maintain the energy release within the safe bounds established for the process as well as insure against abnormal and possibly catastrophic release of large amounts of energy due to system malfunction whether accidental malevolent or due to normal but uncorrected wear and tear.

Properly designed control systems typically include one or more weaklinks. A weaklink element in a control system is taken herein to mean an element critical to control system function whose activation or failure will cause the system to become safe before serious negative consequences result. As noted by Covan and Cooper weaklinks are advantageously designed to respond passively relying on predictable physical or chemical properties to insure system safety Covan J. M. and Cooper J. A. Predictable Safety in the Control of High Consequence Systems Nov. 13 14 1998 Washington D.C. . Weaklinks have also found application in off shore equipment and components such as undersea tubes or pipes at risk for unforeseen pulling forces due to ships anchors or fishing gear U.S. Pat. No. 5 924 741 .

Microfluidics is a research and engineering discipline dealing with transport phenomena and fluid based devices at microscopic length scales. Some authors state that microfluidic devices have the potential to effect a major change in instrumentation by producing cheap disposable systems for the mass market. See for example by N. T Nguyen and S. T. Wereley Artech House 2002. Therefore a need exists in the art for weaklink devices based upon microfluidics offering the possibility of employing multiple microfluidic weaklink devices in safety systems with multiple levels of redundancy thereby increasing the overall reliability of the safety systems.

Accordingly and advantageously the present invention relates to a microfluidic weaklink device including an electrokinetic EK pump with a polymerizable fluid therein. Upon polymerization of the polymerizable fluid a pressure retaining seal is created in the EK pump. Thus the advantages of microfluidic technology are conveniently brought to the field of weaklinks including but not limited to the relatively low cost of typical microfluidic devices.

Unlike other typical microfluidic devices and pumps the present EK pump with polymerizable fluid requires no moving parts to create or to hold high pressures. Photopolymerizable fluids are conveniently employed advantageously fluids polymerizable by exposure to ultraviolet UV radiation.

These and other advantages are achieved in accordance with the present invention as described in detail below.

After considering the following description those skilled in the art will clearly realize that the teachings of the invention can be readily utilized in the fabrication of weaklink devices employing electrokinetic EK pumps in the fabrication of electrokinetic pumps and in the design of safety systems employing such devices.

EK pumping moves fluids making use of surface forces. Some embodiments of EK pumps move fluids having small particles entrained therein. For economy of language we use fluid herein to denote a liquid as well as a liquid including particles entrained with and moving along with the liquid.

The surface forces used to move fluids in an EK pump generally scale well when length scales are reduced. Thus EK pumps are widely used for moving fluids at small length scales and are easily integrated into microfluidic systems. Typically EK pumps are advantageously employed for pumping micro and nano liter i.e. L nL respectively quantities of fluid through channels having typical lateral dimensions less than or of the order of approximately 500 m in diameter m micron micrometer 10meter . Ordinarily EK pumps can be constructed to have the capability of generating maximum pressures practically limited by the pore size distribution and theoretically limited by the crush strength or failure modulus of the supporting medium that is until the pump physically crushes. Maximum pump pressures in excess of tens of thousands psi pounds per square inch are feasible when ceramic media are used.

When ions are driven through an EK pump under the influence of an applied electric field the viscous forces of the liquid are typically sufficient to drag along the other fluid components including small Particles that may be entrained in the fluid. These effects are most pronounced under conditions of small pore sizes as typically occur in EK pumps typically less than about 50 m in many cases.

On a microscopic level the mode of operation of an EK pump derives from the application of electrical forces to ionic components of the working fluid. These forces result in motion of the fluid when volume is available into which flow can occur or to the development of high pressures when flow is hindered. Thus an EK pump moves fluid generates pressure or both.

Performance as a weaklink calls for a substantial change in the operating characteristics of the electrokinetic pump when environmental conditions call for activation of the weaklink. For this purpose it is found to be advantageous that the fluid be such that it can be polymerized when desired. Polymerization of the working fluid leads to an increase in viscosity causing a reduction or elimination of effective porosity such that the device no longer functions as an EK pump whether or not a voltage is applied. Extensive polymerization typically causes an increase in viscosity to such an extent as to create a pressure retaining seal of the EK pump. That is the working fluid becomes a solid or sufficiently close to the properties of a solid so as to effectively seal the EK pump. Thus it is desired that a fluid be formulated that functions as a working fluid for an EK pump but can be polymerized when desired increase its viscosity and form a pressure retaining seal of the porous medium through which the fluid is pumped. The formulation and use of such a fluid in combination with an EK pump is an important objective of the present invention.

In connection with some embodiments of the present invention we consider EK pumps and associated systems in which there is no or small net fluid flow but rather development of pressure and its retention within the EK pump and the fluidic system. However even in such cases there is generally fluid flowthrough within and around the openings in the porous medium of the EK pump. That is substantial mass of fluid can be in motion within the EK but without significant net translation of mass. For economy of language we use fluid flow to indicate a net fluid flow or translation of mass understanding thereby that an absence of fluid flow does not imply a fully stationary mass of fluid within the EK pump.

It is convenient in the practice of the present invention that the polymerizable fluid is photopolymerizable typically by exposure to ultraviolet UV radiation. However this is not an essential restriction. Fluids that are polymerizable under selective exposure to one or more catalysts exposure to heat electron or other particle beams or electromagnetic radiation having wavelengths outside the UV portion of the spectrum visible x ray among others are included within the scope of the present invention. For economy of language we refer to all such substances as polymerizable or photopolymerizable recognizing that thermal particle beam or other polymerization mechanisms are not thereby excluded.

Operation of such an EK pump as a weaklink could entail for example activating a source of polymerizing radiation or the removal of a blocking shutter and exposing the EK fluid to a continuously on source of polymerizing radiation among others. In any case polymerization is initiated thereby ceasing fluid flow and retaining for substantial periods of time or indefinitely the pressure attained.

The EK pump is attached to a fluid reservoir and electrically connected to electrodes and an electrode included in block but not specifically depicted in . Power supply supplies a voltage to either end of the EK pump causing fluid to flow and or pressure to build. Note that the fluid flow in is depicted to be in the opposite sense from to from the direction of flow depicted in to . However as discussed elsewhere herein the sense of flow with respect to the applied electric field is determined by the sign of the zeta potential. An EK pump can be constructed in which either a positive or a negative zeta potential is employed but not both in the same pump .

The EK pump exerts a force on the fluid within it in a bottom to top direction for the example depicted in . This force causes fluid to move perhaps transiently and or pressure to build. As depicted in the force on the fluid developed by the EK pump is directed through tube to pressure transducer which is electrically connected to a suitable recording or read out device. and are caps or pressure release valves that when closed do not allow for continuous fluid flow but cause pressure to increase and be recorded by .

Upon attaining the desired pressure the working fluid in EK pump is then polymerized causing the pressure developed in that is downstream from the polymerized fluid to become blocked. Retention of the pressure in is one objective of the present invention.

It is convenient in some embodiments of the present invention to cause polymerization by bathing in UV radiation the working fluid passing through EK pump . denotes a chamber containing sources of UV radiation that when activated expose the working fluid to its polymerizing effects. EK walls transparent to the polymerizing radiation facilitate exposure and are advantageously employed in some embodiments of the present invention. For example the DUPONT E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company Wilmington Del. commercial product TEFLON AF coated on the silica capillary containing the EK pump is conveniently employed although other transparent fluoropolymers could be used as well.

Polymerization can be controlled by controlling the exposure to UV radiation by any or any combination of several means. For example the transparent regions of the EK pump walls can be limited in geometric extent. A source of UV radiation can be employed having a limited beam width or by limiting the exposure time or by other means. In all such cases the goal is to cause polymerization of the working fluid in or around EK pump causing the pressure developed in transducer to be retained even though the driving voltage from power supply is turned off.

Illustrative examples of typical EK pumps can be fabricated in fused silica columns having an inner diameter of approximately 100 m and lengths ranging from approximately 1 cm to 30 cm. For example a new fused silica column is typically flushed with a pretreating solution containing a binding agent. This pretreatment facilitates the covalent bonding of the porous polymer monolith to the walls of the silica column. Following pretreatment by a time period typically greater than about 1 hour the column is flushed with a buffer for example 5 milliMolar mM phosphate buffer at pH about 7.5 and the buffer is blown out typically by means of an air syringe. A single phase monomer solution is prepared. In this example the monomer includes ethylene glycol dimethacrylate butyl methacrylate tetrahydrofurfuryl methacrylate 2 Methacryloyloxy ethyl trimethylammonium methyl sulfonate MOE or MOE with a chloride counter ion replacing methyl sulfonate IRGACURE 1800 Ciba Specialty Chemicals Inc. Basel Switzerland acetonitrile approximately 5 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.5 and ethanol. This solution is thoroughly mixed and filtered 0.25 micron PTFE membrane into two 2 milliLiter mL vials. Oxygen is removed from the air above the solution by purging with three successive vacuum nitrogen cycles including sonication while under vacuum. The pretreated columns are filled with the degassed monomer solution and connected with the two vials each sealed with a septum . The two vials with columns are placed into a SPECTROLINKER XL 1500 ultraviolet crosslinker Spectronics Corporation Westbury N.Y. for about 30 minutes. Ultraviolet light initiates the polymerization of the suspension. A porous polymer monolith is thus formed in the vials and columns with a nominal cell size of about 0.1 micron. After removal from the ultraviolet crosslinker the vials and columns are allowed to sit at room temperature for about 24 hours to complete polymerization. The column is then removed from its attachment to the vials and purged under pressure with the buffer that will be used in the running EK pump in this case 30 mM acetate buffer with pH about 5.0. This purging process removes unreacted reagents from the system resulting in an EK column.

The EK pump as prepared in Example 1 is tested in an experimental apparatus substantially as depicted schematically in . In this example the apparatus includes a BERTAN Model ARB 30 power supply Spellmen High Voltage Electronic Corporation Hauppauge N.Y. with one terminal thereof connected to a 4 way HPLC high performance liquid chromatography fitting . EK pump is connected to fitting and to vial containing the EK working fluid buffer typically a 2 milliLiter mL vial and to electrode advantageously a platinum electrode. Of the remaining two openings in HPLC fitting one is capped with pressure release valve and the other is connected to pressure transducer by means of tube or pipe . A SENSO METRICS pressure transducer Senso Metrics Incorporated Simi Valley Calif. is advantageously employed as . A suitable pressure read out is employed typically a digital read out. Remaining openings in the pressure transducer are capped conveniently with one or more pressure release valves .

In running an experimental test the absolute voltage delivered by power supply is increased to its desired operating value and held. For typical test runs the applied voltage is adjusted so as to yield electric fields within the EK pump in the range of approximately 100 300 V cm volts per centimeter . Typically 1 2 hours are required for the pressure to equilibrate once the applied voltage has stabilized. In general EK pumps with larger pores equilibrate faster but at lower pressures than those having smaller pores. Typical pressures in the range of approximately 0.1 0.5 V psi are obtained with a 20 cm EK pump column.

When pressure has equilibrated vial is replaced with a vial containing a monomer solution typically releasing a small amount of fluid through valve or similar to accomplish the replacement. Other embodiments include moving the monomer into EK pump through an open system employing another pumping means typically another EK pump not depicted in . Once delivered to pump the delivering pump can be sealed by polymerizing the monomer therein for example by selective exposure to polymerizing UV radiation.

The monomer solution is advantageously formulated so as to form a polymeric gel salt bridge upon photoinitiated polymerization. For example a typical monomer solution is 1.85 mL of 50 N N dimethyl N methacryloxyethyl N 3 sulfopropyl ammonium betaine SPE solution in 35 mM acetate buffer pH 5.0 . A typical cross linking agent in this example is 50 mg of N N methylenebisacrylamide. In addition to the buffer and SPE solution noted above the solution also contains approximately 40 L of 2 methyoxyethanol and 40 L of acetate buffer. A photoinitiator advantageously employed in this example is 10 mg of 2 2 azobis 2 amidinopropane dihydrochloride as the commercial product V 50 Wako Chemical Co. .

With the voltage off any residual pressure in the system is released through a valve such as among others. The voltage is then re applied and the pressure in the system rises again delivering a portion of the SPE containing monomer solution into the EK pump. Since the monomer solution is zwitterionic the permittivity of the solution within the EK pump increases and the conductivity decreases in comparison with the values obtained by the buffer solution present prior to the introduction of the SPE containing monomer. This change in permittivity and conductivity can lead to increased efficiency of the EK pump and may in some cases cause higher pressures to be obtained than those achieved with only buffer solution present.

The UV illumination is then applied leading to polymerization of the SPE containing monomer. When polymerization has been achieved the voltage can be switched off without significant diminution of pressure being observed. In typical cases pressure loss following polymerization was reduced by a factor of about in comparison with pressure loss in the absence of polymerization. depicts a typical pressure loss when polymerization is absent and the electric field is removed at time .

A voltage of about 3 000 volts is applied for about 100 minutes followed by a constant voltage of about 97 V maintained until about 1 000 minutes have elapsed . The voltage spike causes pressure to rise to about 1 425 psi . Reduction of the voltage allows the pressure to leak back to essentially a zero value . Leak back occurs in at a rate of approximately 1.5 psi minute.

Polymerizing UV radiation is applied to the EK pump at the same time as a second and smaller voltage spike than . The wavelength and intensity of the applied UV radiation is chosen to be appropriate for the concentration and identity of the photoinitiator used. In this example UV having 365 nanometer wavelength is applied for approximately 19 minutes time 1220 1239 minutes . The peak voltage is about 2000 V. The pressure drop following polymerization is seen to be markedly less than that occurring without polymerization. Although the polymerization performed here did not form a completely pressure tight seal the pressure leak back occurs at a rate approximately 25 slower than the leak back without polymerization 0.06 psi min compared to 1.5 psi min .

Although various embodiments which incorporate the teachings of the present invention have been shown and described in detail herein those skilled in the art can readily devise many other varied embodiments that still incorporate these teachings.

