---

title: Humidity sensitive cutoff fuse
abstract: A humidity-sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag is provided with a bimorph element and thin conductive bridges positioned on an RFID tag substrate that can react to all changes in storage humidity conditions. The bimorph element is configured and positioned so that when it bends in response to one or more predetermined humidity levels, the bimorph element will break one of the conductive bridges and cause an open circuit that can be detected when the RFID tag is interrogated by a sensor. The humidity-sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag can provide humidity information about numerous stored objects such as food, medicine, chemicals, batteries, explosives and munitions. Multiple humidity conductive bridge cutoff fuse RFID tag arrangements and methods for notifying the user when a predetermined storage humidity limit has been reached with a passive humidity-sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag are provided. Since it does not require power to operate, the cutoff fuse is suitable for monitoring e long-term storage condition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07956759&OS=07956759&RS=07956759
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07956759
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080513
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment to me of any royalty thereon.

 Thermal Cutoff Fuse For Arbitrary Temperatures which has been filed with the U.S. Patent And Trademark Office is designated as U.S. Patent Office Ser. No. 12 079 085 has been assigned to the same assignee and is related to this application.

The present invention relates to radio frequency identification devices. More particularly the present invention relates to radio frequency identification devices with a cutoff fuse triggered by excessive humidity.

Inventory control for long term storage items has become an increasingly important field of endeavor. One particularly noteworthy aspect of inventory control is environmental control of the storage location whether the commodities are stored in a depot warehouse or retail establishment. One parameter that should be monitored during long term storage is humidity because such changes in humidity can have drastic and long reaching impact on many different commodities. If the proper humidity range for the stored object is not maintained during storage the useful lifetime capability safety and other characteristics of the stored object can be deleteriously degraded or lost which can lead to a number of undesirable and possibly dangerous results.

For monitoring a long term storage condition it is a disadvantage for any humidity monitor to require a battery power source because any battery has a finite useful life over a certain period of time. Therefore it is essential that a long term humidity monitor must operate without battery power.

One type of prior art humidity monitor that does not require electrical power is the dial hygrometer. is a perspective view of a prior art dial hygrometer with a needle that moves in response to changes in humidity which is set against a clock type face. While the prior art dial hygrometer is useful for indicating current humidity through movement of the needle it does not record the history of humidity changes during storage. The inability of the prior art dial hygrometer to record the history of humidity changes during storage is a key disadvantage of this device. Thus there has been a long felt need for a real time humidity monitor that can also record humidity change history.

Radio Frequency Identification RFID is an emerging area of technology with numerous applications particularly in the field of inventory control. RFID is an automatic identification method relying on storing and remotely retrieving data using devices that are called RFID tags or transponders. An RFID tag is a small object that can be attached to or incorporated into a product animal person or other stored object and contains silicon chips and antennas to enable it to receive and respond to radio frequency queries from an RFID transceiver. When an RFID tag is combined with one or more sensors the RFID tag can report the information that is measured by the sensors. A passive RFID tag requires no internal power source while active RFID tags do require a power source. A passive RFID tag is better for inventory control for long term storage items because the use of battery power to operate the RFID tag is ordinarily unacceptable. In the RFID arrangement the device receives electrical power from the RF when it is being read therefore for such applications a passive RFID tag combined with a sensor that also does not need power for its operation is critical. However there is no currently available RFID tag that can effectively monitor changes in humidity. Thus there has been a long felt need for a humidity monitor using RFID technology that not only responds to changes in humidity but can also provide a real time record of those humidity changes. Up until now the long felt need for an all humidity sensitive RFID tag has not been met.

In order to answer the long felt need for a humidity sensitive RFID tag the present invention provides an RFID tag with a humidity cutoff fuse that causes a detectable open circuit when a required storage humidity level or range has not been maintained as well as a record of humidity changes that occurred in the storage facility. The present invention provides a humidity cutoff fuse advantageously positioned on an RFID tag that cuts off at predetermined humidity levels either high or low or both. This invention s humidity cutoff fuse RFID tag advantageously configures a bimorph element and thin conductive bridges positioned on an RFID tag to react to storage humidity changes so that the bimorph element will bend and break one of the conductive bridges and cause an open circuit that can be detected by a sensor.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a passive humidity sensitive RFID tag with a cutoff fuse that notifies the user when required storage humidity has not been maintained.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide a passive humidity sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag comprising a bimorph element and thin conductive bridges that react to changes in storage humidity conditions that can be detected when the RFID tag is interrogated and provide a record of the humidity changes.

It is still a further object of this invention to provide a method of notifying the user when predetermined high or low storage humidity level has been exceeded with a passive humidity sensitive RFID tag as well as a record of humidity changes in the storage facility.

These and other objects and advantages can now be attained by this invention s humidity sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag comprising a bimorph element and thin conductive bridges that can react to all changes in storage humidity conditions and cause one or more open circuits that can be detected when a sensor interrogates the RFID tag. A bimorph is a cantilever having two active layers that produce a displacement through humidity activation which is a humidity change that causes one layer to expand more than the other layer. In accordance with the present invention the bimorph element is configured and positioned so that when it bends in response to one or more predetermined humidity levels the bimorph element will break one of the conductive bridges and cause an open circuit that can be detected when the RFID tag is interrogated by a sensor. The bimorph will bend in response to a humidity change at a fixed temperature. This invention s humidity sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag could be advantageously used to provide minimum and maximum humidity information about numerous stored objects such as food medicine chemicals and so on. The present invention also has numerous applications for military purposes as well to provide humidity information for stored objects such as rations medicines and batteries and most particularly for explosives and munitions which can lose their effectiveness or become dangerous if exposed to conditions exceeding a safe humidity range during storage. The present invention provides different multiple humidity conductive bridge cutoff fuse RFID tag arrangements and methods for notifying the user when a required storage humidity has been reached with a humidity sensitive RFID tag. This multiple humidity cut off fuse embodiment could provide a record of minimum and maximum humidity changes by reading which fuses have been cut or not.

The present invention is a passive humidity sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag that reacts to all changes in storage humidity and can be interrogated by a sensor in the vicinity. Referring now to the drawings depicts a top conceptual view of a simplified version of this invention s humidity sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag comprising a bimorph strip and thin conductive bridges and positioned on a tag substrate . The tag is deployed in proximity to a stored object and a sensor .

The bimorph strip further comprises two active layers and that produce a displacement through humidity activation which is a humidity change that causes one layer to expand more than the other layer. This invention s bimorph strip converts a storage humidity change into mechanical displacement because of the difference in the coefficients of humidity expansion of the two materials such as a material with a small humidity expansion coefficient in layer and a different material with a large humidity expansion coefficient in layer so that a flat strip bends toward layer when humidity increases and in the opposite direction toward layer when humidity decreases below a predetermined level. In operation the bimorph strip reacts to changes in storage humidity conditions and will cause a detectable open circuit. This invention s bimorph strip is held in place on tag substrate by a bimorph support arm . The thin conductive bridges and are constructed so that they can be broken easily by the bending the bimorph strip but strong enough to withstand ordinary handling.

Each of the thin conductive bridges and are connected to a pair of flexible bridge support members and a conductive bridge fuse circuit . In operation the bimorph strip is configured and positioned on the tag substrate so that when it bends in response to a predetermined humidity it breaks one of the conductive bridges and to open the conductive bridge fuse circuit . Thus when RFID tag is interrogated by sensor the RFID tag will indicate the shorted or open status of the conductive bridge fuse circuit . The simplified version of this invention would be unable to provide a historical record of humidity changes by itself because it only uses high and low humidity conductive bridges. In order to generate a historical record of humidity changes with this simplified version it would be necessary to connect the sensor to a means for data processing. Instead of connecting a data processing means to the sensor the preferred technique for recording humidity changes in accordance with this invention would be to use multiple conductive bridges and then determine which of the conductive bridges had been broken. Other embodiments of this invention advantageously employ multiple conductive bridges that will provide the necessary information.

Numerous variations of this invention s humidity sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag are possible including thickness and configuration of the conductive bridges and and composition of the bimorph strip . It is noted that the bimorph bends in response to a humidity change at a fixed temperature. However since the bimorph utilizes two different materials the bimorph may also react to a temperature change. For this reason a proper selection of the bimorph materials is needed such that the bending due to a temperature change over an operating temperature range will not cause the fuses to break. Another way to differentiate humidity induced bending from temperature induced bending would be to combine the humidity monitor with another device that responds to temperature changes such as the devices disclosed in the related patent application designated as U.S. Patent Office Ser. No. 12 079 085. Another variable factor is the number of conductive bridges. The conductive bridges and can be as thin as a few tens of micrometers or otherwise comparable to the size of microelectronic circuits so long as they can be easily broken by the bimorph strip survive normal handling shock and be manufactured with microelectronic fabrication techniques. Additionally the bimorph strip can be composed of numerous different materials including metals so long as the difference in the coefficients of humidity expansion between the two materials is adequate and the materials survive operational contraction and expansion. Although this invention is most concerned with monitoring excessive absolute humidity this invention s humidity sensitive cutoff fuse can be configured to monitor absolute humidity relative humidity or both.

Referring now to which uses the same numerals for like structural elements there is depicted an enlarged side view of a modified bimorph element conductive bridge and bimorph support arm . In this case the conductive bridge has been configured with multiple notches in order to provide easy breakage of the conductive bridge fuse circuit in accordance with the present invention. The modified bimorph element includes a sharpened edge in order to more efficiently break the conductive bridge and generate a breach in the conductive bridge and a detectable open circuit.

Although illustrates at least two conductive bridges the number of conductive bridges will usually be varied according to the number of desired humidity set points and in most applications multiple conductive bridges will be used to provide a record of humidity changes. In some cases it may be desired for the stored object and storage facility to require only that the fuse cuts off at a single humidity set point and then only one conductive bridge is needed. The humidity sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag depicted in FIG S. can be triggered at multiple humidity set points to provide a record of humidity changes so that in most cases multiple conductive bridges and will be effectively used.

The present invention also encompasses a number of different embodiments and configurations of the passive humidity sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag. To have more set points more conductive bridges can be added as shown in . In accordance with the present invention the fuse cutoff set point is decided by the distance between the conductive bridges and the bimorph strip . Suppose that the bimorph strip bends toward the upper direction when the humidity increases. As humidity increases the first conductive bridge breaks and if the humidity goes even higher the next conductive bridge breaks. Thus the RFID tag circuit can read the open circuit so that the excursion of the humidity during the storage can be read when the RFID tag is interrogated.

Referring now to the drawings and using the same numerals for like structural elements illustrates a top conceptual view of the multiple set point humidity sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag comprising a bimorph strip first top conductive bridge second top conductive bridge and lower conductive bridge . As is the case in all embodiments the thin conductive bridges and are constructed so that they can be broken easily by the bending of the bimorph strip in response to predetermined changed storage humidity levels but strong enough to withstand ordinary handling. Each of the thin conductive bridges and are connected to a pair of flexible bridge support members and a conductive bridge fuse circuit but for the sake of simplicity the wiring for the circuit is not shown in this drawing and the remaining ones.

Another embodiment of the present invention is to fabricate the humidity sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag at a very low cost with Micro Electro Mechanical Systems MEMS technology. MEMS technology permits the integration of mechanical elements sensors actuators and electronics on a common silicon substrate through micro fabrication techniques. The electronics are fabricated using integrated circuit IC process sequences such as the Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS technique and the micromechanical components are fabricated using compatible micromachining processes that selectively etch away portions of the silicon wafer or add new structural layers to form the mechanical and electromechanical devices. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that fabricating this invention s RFID tag devices with MEMS technology along with the RFID tag circuit at the same time allows making the devices at a relatively low cost. This invention s conductive bridges can be easily made with a thin metal film deposited on a backing material such as poly silicon which is commonly used in MEMS fabrication process. And with MEMS technology many bridges can be made without difficulty so that the range of the maximum humidity excursion can be recorded with a fine resolution of humidity. An MEMS humidity sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag structure showing the bimorph strip with only an upper bridge that is fabricated using MEMS technology is depicted in .

Referring now to there is depicted an enlarged side view of an MEMS humidity sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag comprising a bimorph strip top layer bottom layer a conductive bridge bimorph support arm and a thin metal film deposited on the conductive bridge using MEMS technology. In this embodiment the conductive bridge may be composed of a backing material such as poly silicon. This embodiment would also generally include multiple conductive bridges.

Another embodiment of this invention s passive humidity sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag is depicted in where the humidity sensitive cutoff fuSe RFID tag is shown in a conceptual perspective view with multiple conductive bridge structures to provide more monitored humidity levels. Referring now to using the same numerals for like structural elements thre is depicted this invention s multiple bridge humidity sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag comprising a bimorph strip and a plurality of thin conductive bridges and positioned on a tag substrate that are held in place by bridge support arms and .

This perspective view more clearly illustrates a portion of substrate that has been etched away to allow for more freedom of movement for the bimorph strip . The tag is deployed in proximity to a sensor . In operation the bimorph strip reacts to changes in storage humidity conditions and causes a detectable open circuit. This invention s bimorph strip is held in place on tag substrate by one of the bridge support arms . Each of the thin conductive bridges and are connected to a conductive bridge fuse circuit . In operation the bimorph strip is configured and positioned on the tag substrate so that when the bimorph strip bends in response to a predetermined humidity level the bimorph strip breaks one of the conductive bridges and and opens the conductive bridge fuse circuit . Thus when RFID tag is interrogated by sensor the RFID tag will indicate the shorted or open status of the conductive bridge fuse circuit . The conductive bridges and are depicted as being flush with the upper surfaces of bridge support arms and .

The present invention also contemplates a passive humidity sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag system comprising various embodiments of the RFID tag and sensor. Many of the variations of the RFID tag embodiments also apply to the RFID tag system embodiments.

The present invention also encompasses methods for notifying a user when predetermined humidity levels for a group of stored objects have been reached with a passive humidity sensitive cutoff fuse RFID tag comprising the steps of selecting a plurality of different materials that exhibit a difference in coefficients of humidity expansion forming a bimorph strip with two layers composed of two different materials selected from the plurality of different materials because the difference in coefficients of humidity expansion causes the bimorph strip to bend in a first given direction when a first one of the layers is exposed to a first of a plurality of predetermined humidity levels and in an opposite direction when a second one of the layers is exposed to a second of the plurality of predetermined humidity levels positioning the bimorph strip on a tag substrate forming a group of thin conductive bridges on the tag substrate in proximity to the bimorph strip configuring the thin conductive bridges to be broken by the bimorph strip bending after at least one of the plurality of predetermined humidity levels has been reached and connecting the thin conductive bridges to form a conductive bridge fuse circuit. The method continues with the steps of deploying the RFID tag among stored objects located in the vicinity of a sensor breaking one of the thin conductive bridges with the bimorph strip when at least one of the plurality of predetermined humidity levels is reached causing the conductive bridge fuse circuit to become an open circuit detectable by the sensor and interrogating the RFID tag with the sensor to detect the open circuit. Many of the variations of the RFID tag and tag system embodiments also apply to this invention s methods.

It is to be further understood that other features and modifications to the foregoing detailed description are within the contemplation of the present invention which is not limited by this detailed description. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that any number of configurations of the present invention and numerous modifications and combinations of materials components arrangements and dimensions can achieve the results described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited by the foregoing description but only by the appended claims.

