---

title: Test apparatus and method for testing interoperability of wireless communication devices
abstract: A test apparatus and method are provided for testing interoperability of a first device to communicate with a second device via wireless communication. The test apparatus includes a wireless interface configured to interface via wireless communication with devices. The test apparatus also includes a processor, memory and logic stored in memory and executed by the processor. The logic causes the test apparatus to sequence through a plurality of wireless communication actions to communicate with a first device, monitor behavior of the first device during the actions, and store characteristics of the monitored behavior in memory so that the test apparatus may be used to emulate the first device when wirelessly communicating with a second device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08213928&OS=08213928&RS=08213928
owner: Delphi Technologies, Inc.
number: 08213928
owner_city: Troy
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081124
---
The present invention generally relates to wireless communications and more particularly relates to testing the interoperability of devices that communicate wirelessly such as with Bluetooth enabled devices.

Short range wireless communication is available on many electronic devices such as cell phones microphone and earpiece headsets laptop computers desktop computers and is also widely available on many vehicles. Many of these wireless devices are configured with a popular wireless communication package commonly referred to as Bluetooth devices. Bluetooth enabled devices are developed and sold by many companies. As a result the internal implementation of technology employed in the various Bluetooth enabled products may vary from one product to another. This often results in problems in trying to ensure the operability of one device wirelessly communicating with another device. In order for developers of devices to ensure proper wireless operation a large scale interoperability test is generally required.

To perform a large scale interoperability test developers typically hire outside companies or invest in developing an internal capability to manually test software and hardware associated with their devices ability to interact with existing or prelaunch hardware. Typically the interoperability testing is conducted manually by operating individual devices communicating wirelessly with a newly developed product such as an entertainment system in a vehicle. This requires purchasing a vast number of devices that may communicate with the entertainment system in the marketplace. As a consequence the conventional interoperability testing approach requires substantial money and time.

It is therefore desirable to provide for interoperability testing between wireless communication devices that makes the testing more feasible and less costly.

According to one aspect of the present invention a test apparatus is provided for testing interoperability of a first device to communicate with a second device via wireless communication. The test apparatus includes a wireless interface configured to interface via wireless communication with at least first and second devices. The test apparatus also includes a processor memory and logic stored in memory and executed by the processor. The logic causes the test apparatus to sequence through a plurality of wireless communication actions to communicate with a first device monitor behavior of the first device during the actions and store characteristics of the monitored behavior in memory so that the test apparatus may be used to emulate the first device when wirelessly communicating with a second device.

According to another aspect of the present invention a method for testing interoperability of a first device to communicate with a second device via wireless communication is provided. The method includes the steps of providing a test apparatus having a wireless interface configured to interface via wireless transmission with at least first and second devices and communicating the test apparatus with at least a first device. The method also includes the steps of causing the test apparatus to sequence through a plurality of wireless communication actions to communicate with the first device monitoring behavior of the first device during the actions and storing characteristics of the monitored behavior in memory. The method further includes the steps of emulating the first device with the test apparatus when wirelessly communicating with a second device.

These and other features advantages and objects of the present invention will be further understood and appreciated by those skilled in the art by reference to the following specification claims and appended drawings.

Referring now to an interoperability IOP replicator and emulator tester also referred to as test apparatus is illustrated for replicating a first wireless device as shown in and further emulating the first wireless device when communicating wirelessly with a second device as shown in . The test apparatus is configured to test interoperability of the first device to communicate with the second device via wireless communication. The test apparatus aids in development of future products such as device without requiring a developer to test each and every first device with the second device that is being developed. The first device may include one or more wireless devices such as Bluetooth enabled cell phones microphone and earpiece headsets laptop computers desktop computers and other wireless communicating devices. The second device may include any wireless device capable of communicating wirelessly with one or more of the first devices . Examples of a second wireless device may include a Bluetooth enabled vehicle entertainment system radio or other device.

With reference to the interoperability replicator and emulator test apparatus is shown having a processor a touch screen display a wireless interface and memory . The processor may include a microprocessor according to one embodiment. The processor may include other analog and or digital circuitry including an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other known circuitry according to other embodiments. The processor processes input data executes routines as described herein to replicate a first device and to emulate the first device and provides output signals indicative of the interoperability of the devices.

Memory may include any known storage medium such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and other memory devices. Memory is shown including an application programming interface API portion having a higher abstraction layer and an abstraction layer within the higher abstraction layer . Stored within the abstraction layer is a profile wireless functional specification for learned behavior models . The learned behavior models are learned during the replication of a first device and are stored in memory and provide information relevant to the interoperability of the wireless e.g. Bluetooth communication of the first device . It should be appreciated that a plurality of learned behavior models may be stored in memory to accommodate the learned replication of a plurality of first devices . Also stored in memory is a device replication routine for learning the behavior models and a device emulation routine for emulating the learned first device when communicating with a second device according to one embodiment. Routines and are stored as logic executable by the processor .

The test apparatus is also shown including a wireless interface adapted to interface via wireless communication with a plurality of devices. The wireless interface may allow wireless communication via short range wireless communication such as Bluetooth according to one embodiment. According to another embodiment the wireless interface may allow short range wireless communication via IEEE spec 802.11. It should be appreciated that the wireless interface may allow other wireless communication including medium range and long range wireless communication such as may be experienced with a local area network LAN wireless communication.

The test apparatus further includes a touch screen display which may display output visual information to a user and may allow for a user to interface and input information to the test apparatus . Referring particularly to the touch screen display is illustrated displaying the user interface of a first wireless device shown as a cell phone . In this example the cell phone is displayed on display showing the phone display and user input keypads that may be actuated by a user to input information such as alphanumeric characters for commands. The test apparatus may be configured such that the touch screen display allows the user to simulate the entry of keypad inputs by touching the display on the displayed cell phone device such that the test apparatus may simulate the user interface with a cell phone device. The intuitive user interface display abstracts the sophisticated behavioral model and appears to the user as a cell phone in this example with input buttons for providing user inputs. Also shown in is the memory provided within a computer housing and speakers that allow for audio output to a user. It should be appreciated that the test apparatus may be configured by employing logic programmed onto a computer as shown in or may otherwise be configured. In the computer embodiment the computer based tool may be a personal computer or a computing platform with the learned behavior models device replication routine and device emulation routine stored in memory.

The replicator and emulator test apparatus serves both as a replicator to learn wireless interoperability of one or a plurality of first devices and as an emulator to emulate the one or plurality of first devices when communicating with a second device . The test apparatus is shown communicating with a first wireless device such as a Bluetooth enabled cell phone in . In doing so the test apparatus communicates wirelessly via wireless interface with the first wireless device s during execution of the device replication routine and learns the behavior of the first wireless device s such that a behavior model having characterization parameters is stored in memory for each first device .

Once one or a plurality of first wireless devices have been learned by the test apparatus and their behavior model characterization parameters are stored in memory the test apparatus may be employed to test interoperability of the first wireless devices with one or more second wireless devices as shown in . In this embodiment the test apparatus communicates wirelessly via the wireless interface with a second wireless device shown located on board a vehicle according to one embodiment. The vehicle may be a wheeled automotive vehicle as is generally known in the art. The second wireless device may include any of a number of wireless devices that communicate wirelessly. In the embodiment shown the second wireless device is a vehicle entertainment system shown having a display and user inputs available on board the vehicle . The vehicle entertainment system may incorporate any of a number of functions including radio navigation and entertainment as should be evident to those skilled in the art. The test apparatus allows a developer of a vehicle or the vehicle s entertainment system to test the interoperability of a plurality of first devices such as cell phones with the second wireless device to see if the second wireless device properly operates to communicate wireless data with each of the plurality of first devices . In doing so the test apparatus executes the device emulation routine to communicate with the second wireless device to see if the first devices work correctly with the second device . This enables a developer of the vehicle entertainment system or the vehicle to test interoperability of the second wireless device with the first wireless device without requiring purchase and use of all potential first devices .

Referring to the device replication routine is illustrated according to one embodiment. The replication routine begins at step to start the application to begin the learning process and then proceeds to step to start up the Bluetooth enabled first device to emulate. The Bluetooth enabled device to emulate may include any of a number of devices including cell phones wireless computers audio headsets and other Bluetooth enabled devices or other wireless devices. Next routine proceeds to step to prepare the test apparatus and the first Bluetooth enabled device for pairing. The pairing operation may include a conventional pairing in which the devices are configured to communicate with each other such as entering a matching code e.g. 0000 as should be evident to those skilled in the art.

Once the test apparatus and the first Bluetooth enabled device are paired the replication routine proceeds to step to exercise defined use cases. The use cases may include sequencing through a number of actions involving communication of the test apparatus with each Bluetooth enabled first device. The sequence of events may include a pairing action a connection action a reconnection action a profile action and multiple profile actions. The use cases typically may be a use that is generally required to exercise use of the device through its full range of behavior. According to one embodiment the use cases may include a device pairing a device service connection a device disconnection and reconnection and profile actions. The profile actions may be functional steps defined in the present and future Bluetooth functional profile specifications for profiles including but not limited to hands free phone profile headset profile advanced audio distribution profile audio video remote control profile phonebook access profile object push profile dial up networking profile and other profiles as updated and or adopted. These actions may be performed multiple times each in every different valid sequence and by every different valid optional way possible to capture variation by user input. Use cases may also include multiple profile actions which are user actions or use cases which require simultaneous use of more than one Bluetooth profile. Multiple profile actions may include a cell phone streaming music and receiving a call at the same time.

Based on the defined use cases routine may apply the results to develop a behavior model of the first device in step . The behavior model may then be stored in memory in step . The characterization parameters of the behavior model may include message response and sequencing timing between event and responses message and data formats of response messages and optional specification features in the Bluetooth specification. The stored behavior model characterization parameters are indicative of the operability of the first wireless device such that the test apparatus is able to emulate the first device. Once the characterization parameters are stored in memory the replication routine deletes the connection at step . Next routine proceeds to decision step to determine if the test apparatus is finished learning this first device and if not turns to step . If the test apparatus is finished learning this first device then replication routine proceeds to decision step to determine if more Bluetooth enabled devices are to be learned and if so returns to step to emulate therein the next first device. If no more Bluetooth enabled devices are to be learned as the first device then replication routine is finished with the replication process at step .

Referring to the emulation routine is illustrated for the test apparatus emulating the first devices to communicate with a second wireless device according to one embodiment. The emulation routine begins at step to start the application to begin the emulator process and then proceeds to step to start up the second device under test. The second device under test may include an entertainment system in a vehicle according to one embodiment. Emulation routine proceeds to step to select a first Bluetooth enabled device from a menu on the display of the emulator test apparatus at step . This may include a user actuating the touch screen display button on the test apparatus to select a desired first Bluetooth enabled device to test with the second device. Next routine proceeds to step to perform pairing and connection actions.

Once the pairing and connection actions are complete emulation routine proceeds to step to execute a product test plan using the emulator in place of the first Bluetooth enabled device. The product test plan may include the user interacting with the touch screen display of the test apparatus to enter certain inputs so that the test apparatus may check the interoperability of the first device with the second device. Once the product test plan is complete emulation routine proceeds to step to delete the connections. At decision step emulation routine determines whether the test apparatus is finished testing the second device under test against the emulated first device and if not returns to step . If the test apparatus is finished testing the second device under test against the emulated first device then routine proceeds to decision step to determine if more emulated Bluetooth enabled devices are to be emulated to test with the second device under test and if so returns to step to emulate the next first device. If no more emulated first devices are to be emulated emulation routine is complete at step .

The emulation routine executes the product test plan by interacting with a user according to one embodiment. The test procedure for executing the product text plan may include any of a number of actions that are performed to test interoperability of one or a plurality of first devices with a second device. One example of a test procedure for testing each of the plurality of first devices with the second device is described in the following table which provides the Bluetooth profile the requirement the test procedures implemented and the expected results which are recorded for each device that is emulated 

The test procedure may be interactive in which a user interfaces with the touch screen display to input actions pursuant to the test procedure. It should be appreciated that some of the test procedure actions may be automated and that the expected results may be automatically stored in memory and may be processed to determine whether the interoperability of each first device with the second device performs satisfactory. One example of a test procedure is given which includes actions for registration connectivity placing a phone call receiving or ending a call muting a call providing tones transfer function indicator displays third call call waiting phonebook transfers handsfree on off actions registrations and other actions. It should be appreciated that these and other actions may be applied for any given test procedure depending upon the functionality of the devices and the expected interoperability of the devices. It should be appreciated that while the test procedure shown and described herein is one example of testing a first device with a second device by emulating the first device. It should be appreciated that the same or similar test procedure may be employed during the replication process to learn the characteristics of each of a plurality of first devices by performing similar actions and storing these characteristics in the test apparatus.

Accordingly it should be appreciated that the test apparatus advantageously learns the behavior characteristics of a plurality of wireless first devices and emulates the plurality of wireless first devices when communicating with a second device so as to allow for enhanced interoperability testing. The test apparatus advantageously allows for the elimination of physical first devices when testing a second device so that a developer such as a manufacturer of a vehicle or a device employed based on an automotive vehicle may easily and cost effectively check the interoperability of their devices.

It will be understood by those who practice the invention and those skilled in the art that various modifications and improvements may be made to the invention without departing from the spirit of the disclosed concept. The scope of protection afforded is to be determined by the claims and by the breadth of interpretation allowed by law.

