---

title: System and method for accessing information processor services for a mobile communication device
abstract: A system and method for pushing information from a host system to a mobile data communication device upon sensing a triggering event is disclosed. A redirector program operating at the host system enables a user to continuously redirect user-selected data items from the host system to the user's mobile data communication device upon detecting that one or more user-defined triggering events has occurred. The redirector program operates in connection with event generating applications and repackaging systems at the host system to configure and detect particular user-defined events, and then to repackage the user-selected data items in an electronic wrapper prior to pushing the data items to the mobile device. The system includes information processing components for identifying one or more information processors in the vicinity of the mobile device and then routing an attachment or information from the host system, the device or an external information source to a selected information processor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08065436&OS=08065436&RS=08065436
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08065436
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20081222
---
This is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 480 979 filed on Dec. 15 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 487 204 which claims priority from International Patent Application No. PCT CA02 00917 filed on Jun. 18 2002 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 298 983 titled System and Method for Managing Message Attachment and Information Processing from a Mobile Data Communication Device filed on Jun. 18 2001. This application is related to U.S. Pat. No. 6 438 585 filed on Jan. 16 2001 which is a continuation in part of U.S. Pat. No. 6 219 694 filed on May 29 1998 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 779 019 filed on Apr. 10 2000. This application is also related to the following commonly owned United States patents all of which are related to U.S. Pat. No. 6 219 694 U.S. Pat. No. 6 701 378 U.S. Pat. No. 6 463 464 U.S. Pat. No. 7 209 955 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 463 463 all of which are hereby incorporated into the present application by reference.

The present invention is directed generally toward the field of mobile communications and in particular to managing the processing of message attachments and other information from a mobile data communication device.

A further aspect of the invention provides a system and method for sending message attachments or other information from the mobile data communication device to one or more processing devices. Systems and methods according to this aspect of the invention are particularly useful for mobile devices such as pagers PDAs cellular telephones etc. that have limited memory capacity and thus may have difficulty processing attachment files.

Present systems and methods for replicating or redirecting information from a host system to a user s mobile data communication device are typically synchronization systems in which the user s data items are warehoused or stored at the host system for an indefinite period of time and then transmitted in bulk to the mobile device only in response to a user request. In these types of systems and methods when replication of the warehoused data items to the mobile device is desired the user typically places the mobile device in an interface cradle that is electrically connected to the host system via some form of local dedicated communication. Software executing on the mobile device then transmits commands via the local communications link to the host system to cause the host to begin transmitting the user s data items for storage in a memory bank of the mobile device.

In these known synchronization schemes the mobile unit pulls the warehoused information from the host system in a batch each time the user desires to replicate information between the two devices. Therefore the two systems host and mobile only maintain the same data items after a user initiated command sequence that causes the mobile device to download the data items from the host system. A general problem with these synchronization systems is that the only time that the user data items are replicated between the host system and the mobile data communication device is when the user commands the mobile device to download or pull the user data from the host system. Five minutes later a new message could be sent to the user but the user would not receive that message until the next time the user fetches the user data items. Thus a user may fail to respond to an emergency update or message because the user only periodically synchronizes the system such as once per day. Other problems with these systems include 1 the amount of data to be reconciled between the host and the mobile device can become large if the user does not synchronize on a daily or hourly basis leading to bandwidth difficulties particularly when the mobile device is communicating via a wireless packet switched network and 2 reconciling large amounts of data as can accrue in these batch mode synchronization systems can require a great deal of communication between the host and the mobile device thus leading to a more complex costly and energy inefficient system.

A more automated continuous efficient and reliable system of ensuring that user data items are replicated at the user s mobile device is therefore needed.

There remains an additional need for such a system and method that provides flexibility in the types and quantities of user data items that are pushed from the host system to the mobile data communication device and that also provides flexibility in the configuration and types of events that can serve to trigger the redirection of the user data items.

There remains yet an additional need for such a system and method that can operate locally on a user s desktop PC or at a distance via a network server.

There remains still another need for such a system and method that provides for secure transparent delivery of the user selected data items from the host system to the mobile device.

There remains an additional need for such a system and method in which the user is provided with a flexible means of processing message attachments that may be too large or incompatible with the configuration of the mobile device.

A system and method of pushing user selected data items from a host system to a user s mobile data communication device upon detecting the occurrence of one or more user defined event triggers is provided. As used in this application the term host system refers to the computer where the redirector software is operating. In one embodiment the host system is a user s desktop PC although alternatively the host system could be a network server connected to the user s PC via a local area network LAN or could be any other system that is in communication with the user s desktop PC.

A redirector program operating at the host system enables the user to redirect or mirror certain user selected data items or parts of data items from the host system to the user s mobile data communication device upon detecting that one or more user defined triggering events has occurred. In this application the terms information data items messages and datagrams are used interchangeably to mean an information object that is received at or sent from the host system or the mobile device. Also operating at the host system are various sub systems that can be configured to create triggering events such as a screen saver sub system or a keyboard sub system as well as sub systems for repackaging the user s data items for transparent delivery to the mobile data device such as a TCP IP sub system or one or more E Mail sub systems. Other sub systems for creating triggering events and repackaging the user s data items could also be present at the host system. The host system also includes a primary memory store where the user s data items are normally stored.

Using the redirector program the user can select certain data items for redirection such as E mail messages calendar events meeting notifications address entries journal entries personal reminders etc. Having selected the data items for redirection the user can then configure one or more event triggers to be sensed by the redirector program to initiate redirection of the user data items. These user defined trigger points or event triggers include external events internal events and networked events. Examples of external events include receiving a message from the user s mobile data communication device to begin redirection receiving a similar message from some external computer sensing that the user is no longer in the vicinity of the host system or any other event that is external to the host system. Internal events could be a calendar alarm screen saver activation keyboard timeout programmable timer or any other user defined event that is internal to the host system. Networked events are user defined messages that are transmitted to the host system from another computer coupled to the host system via a network to initiate redirection. These are just some of the examples of the types of user defined events that can trigger the redirector program to push data items from the host to the mobile device. Although in a preferred embodiment it is anticipated that the configuration that specifies which data items will be redirected and in what form will be set at the host system such configuration may be set or modified through data sent from the mobile communications device.

In addition to the functionality noted above the redirector program provides a set of software implemented control functions for determining the type of mobile data communication device and its address for programming a preferred list of message types that are to be redirected and for determining whether the mobile device can receive and process certain types of message attachments such as word processor or voice attachments. The determination of whether a particular mobile device can receive and process attachments is preferably initially configured by the user of that mobile device at the host system. This configuration can be altered on a global per message basis or per device basis by transmitting a command message from the mobile device to the host system. If the redirector is configured so that the mobile data device cannot receive and process word processor or voice attachments then the redirector routes these attachments to an external machine that is compatible with the particular attachment such as an attached printer or networked fax machine or telephone. Other types of attachments could be redirected to other types of external machines in a similar fashion depending upon the capabilities of the mobile device. For example if a user is traveling and receives a message with an attachment that the user s mobile device can process or display the user may from a mobile communications device send a command message to the host system indicating that that attachment is to be sent to a fax machine at a hotel where the user will be spending the evening. This enables the user to receive important E mail attachments as long as the host system is provided with sufficient information about the destination where the attachment is to be forwarded.

Once an event has triggered redirection of the user data items the host system then repackages these items in a manner that is transparent to the mobile data communication device so that information on the mobile device appears similar to information on the user s host system. The preferred repackaging method includes wrapping the user data items in an E mail envelope that corresponds to the address of the mobile data communication device although alternatively other repackaging methods could be used such as special purpose TCP IP wrapping techniques or other methods of wrapping the user selected data items. The repackaging preferably results in E mail messages generated by the user from the mobile device to be transmitted from the host system thus enabling the user to appear to have a single E mail address such that the recipients of messages sent from the mobile communications device do not know where the user was physically located when the message was first sent. The repackaging also permits both messages to the mobile device and sent from the mobile device to be encrypted and decrypted as well as compressed and decompressed.

In an alternative system and method the redirector program executes on a network server and the server is programmed to detect numerous redirection event triggers over the network from multiple user desktop computers coupled to the server via a LAN. The server can receive internal event triggers from each of the user desktops via the network and can also receive external event triggers such as messages from the users mobile data communication devices. In response to receiving one of these triggers the server redirects the user s data items to the proper mobile data communication device. The user data items and addressing information for a particular mobile device can be stored at the server or at the user s PC. Using this alternative configuration one redirector program can serve a plurality of users. This alternative configuration could also include an Internet or intranet based redirector program that could be accessible through a secure webpage or other user interface. The redirector program could be located on an Internet Service Provider s system and accessible only through the Internet.

In another alternative configuration a redirector program operates at both the host system and at the user s mobile data communication device. In this configuration the user s mobile device operates similarly to the host system described below and is configured in a similar fashion to push certain user selected data items from the mobile device to the user s host system or some other computer upon detecting an event trigger at the mobile device. This configuration provides two way pushing of information from the host to the mobile device and from the mobile device to the host.

An advantage of this system and method is that triggering of continuous and real time redirection of user selected data items from a host system to a mobile data communication device is provided. Other advantages include 1 flexibility in defining the types of user data to redirect and in defining a preferred list of message types that are to be redirected or preferred senders whose messages are to be redirected 2 flexibility in configuring the system to respond to numerous internal external and networked triggering events 3 transparent repackaging of the user data items in a variety of ways such that the mobile data communication device appears as though it were the host system 4 integration with other host system components such as E mail TCP IP keyboard screen saver webpages and certain programs that can either create user data items or be configured to provide trigger points 5 the ability to operate locally on a user s desktop system or at a distance via a network server 6 the ability to receive process and manage attachment redirection 7 the ability to dynamically change and dynamically re route attachment redirection and 8 management of data item attachments and other information processing from a mobile communication device.

A method of controlling an information processor using a mobile communication device is provided. The method may include the steps of obtaining service information including at least one service address associated with a service provided by the information processor from a service information provider sending a communication signal from the mobile communication device to the information processor using the service address receiving the communication signal at the information processor and performing an information processing operation in response to the communication signal.

A system for accessing services of an information processor with a mobile communication device is also provided and may comprise a service information provider located remotely from the information processor and the mobile communication device wherein the service information provider includes service information comprising one or more service addresses associated with the information processor and an interface between the service information provider and the mobile communication device for transferring the service information associated with the information processor to the mobile communication device. The mobile communication device obtains the service information associated with the information processor via the interface and each service address enables the mobile communication device to access a particular service of the information processor.

These are just a few of the many advantages of the systems and methods described in more detail below. As will be appreciated each system and method is capable of other and different embodiments and its several details are capable of modifications in various respects. Accordingly the drawings and description of preferred embodiments set forth below are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.

Referring now to the drawings is an example system diagram showing the redirection of user data items such as message A or C from a user s office PC host system to the user s mobile data communication device where the redirector software program is operating at the user s PC. Message A in represents an internal message sent from desktop to the user s host system via LAN . Message C in represents an external message from a sender that is not directly connected to LAN such as the user s mobile data communication device some other user s mobile device not shown or any user connected to the Internet . Message C also represents a command message from the user s mobile data communication device to the host system . As described in more detail in the host system preferably includes along with the typical hardware and software associated with a workstation or desktop computer the redirector program a TCP IP subsystem a primary message store an E mail subsystem a screen saver subsystem and a keyboard subsystem .

In the host system is the user s desktop system typically located in the user s office. The host system is connected to a LAN which also connects to other computers that may be in the user s office or elsewhere. The LAN in turn is connected to a wide area network WAN preferably the Internet which is defined by the use of the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP to exchange information but which alternatively could be any other type of WAN. The connection of the LAN to the WAN is via high bandwidth link typically a T1 or T3 connection. The WAN in turn is connected to a variety of gateways via connections . A gateway forms a connection or bridge between the WAN and some other type of network such as an RF wireless network cellular network satellite network or other synchronous or asynchronous land line connection.

In the example of a wireless gateway is connected to the Internet for communicating via wireless link to a plurality of wireless mobile data communication devices . Also shown in is machine which could be a FAX machine a printer a system for displaying images such as video a cellular phone or a machine capable of processing and playing audio files such as a voice mail system. Machine is also referred to herein as an attachment displayer. This system also includes the ability to redirect certain message attachments to such an external machine if the redirector program configuration data reflects that the mobile device cannot receive and process the attachments or if the user has specified that certain attachments are not to be forwarded to mobile device even if such device can process those attachments.

For example consider an E mail sent to a user that includes three attachments a word processing document a video clip and an audio clip. The redirection program could be configured to send the text of the E mail to the remote device to send the word processing document to a networked printer located near the user to send the video clip to a store accessible through a secure connection through the Internet and to send the audio clip to the user s voice mail system. This example is not intended to limit the breadth and scope of redirection but rather to illustrate the variety of possibilities embodied in the redirection concept. The attachment redirection capabilities as well as processing management attachment or information processing are further described below with reference to .

The mobile data communication device is preferably a hand held two way wireless paging computer a wirelessly enabled palm top computer a mobile telephone with data messaging capabilities or a wirelessly enabled laptop computer but could alternatively be other types of mobile data communication devices capable of sending and receiving messages via a network connection . Although it is preferable for the system to operate in a two way communications mode certain aspects of the system could be beneficially used in a one and one half or acknowledgment paging environment or even with a one way paging system. The mobile data communication device includes software program instructions that work in conjunction with the redirector program to enable the seamless transparent redirection of user selected data items. describes the basic method steps of the redirector program and describes the steps of the corresponding program operating at the mobile device .

Where the device is enabled for two way communications the device will incorporate a communication subsystem including a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more preferably embedded or internal antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . As will be apparent to those skilled in the field of communications the particular design of the communication subsystem will be dependent upon the communication network in which the device is intended to operate. For example a device destined for a North American market may include a communication subsystem designed to operate within the Mobitex mobile communication system or DataTAC mobile communication system whereas a device intended for use in Europe may incorporate a General Packet Radio Service GPRS communication subsystem .

Network access requirements will also vary depending upon the type of network . For example in the Mobitex and DataTAC networks mobile devices such as are registered on the network using a unique identification number or associated with each device. In GPRS networks however network access is associated with a subscriber or user of a device . A GPRS device therefore requires a subscriber identity module not shown commonly referred to as a SIM card in order to operate on a GPRS network. Without a SIM card a GPRS device will not be fully functional. Local or non network communication functions if any may be operable but the device will be unable to carry out any functions involving communications over network . When required network registration or activation procedures have been completed a device may send and receive communication signals over the network . Signals received by the antenna through a communication network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection and the like and in the example system shown in analog to digital conversion. Analog to digital conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP and input to the transmitter for digital to analog conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission over the communication network via the antenna .

The DSP not only processes communication signals but also provides for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

The device preferably includes a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the device. Communication functions including at least data and voice communications are performed through the communication subsystem . The microprocessor also interacts with further device subsystems such as the display flash memory random access memory RAM auxiliary input output I O subsystems serial port keyboard speaker microphone a short range communications subsystem and any other device subsystems generally designated as .

Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. Notably some subsystems such as keyboard and display for example may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over a communication network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

Operating system software used by the microprocessor is preferably stored in a persistent store such as flash memory which may instead be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the operating system specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as RAM . It is contemplated that received communication signals may also be stored to RAM .

The microprocessor in addition to its operating system functions preferably enables execution of software applications on the device. A predetermined set of applications which control basic device operations including at least data and voice communication applications for example will normally be installed on the device during manufacture. A preferred application that may be loaded onto the device may be a personal information manager PIM application having the ability to organize and manage data items relating to the device user such as but not limited to e mail calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. Naturally one or more memory stores would be available on the device to facilitate storage of PIM data items on the device. Such PIM application would preferably have the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network. In a preferred embodiment the PIM data items are seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the device user s corresponding data items stored or associated with a host computer system thereby creating a mirrored host computer on the mobile device with respect to the data items at least. This would be especially advantageous in the case where the host computer system is the mobile device user s office computer system. Further applications may also be loaded onto the device through the network an auxiliary I O subsystem serial port short range communications subsystem or any other suitable subsystem and installed by a user in the RAM or preferably a non volatile store not shown for execution by the microprocessor . Such flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the device .

In a data communication mode a received signal such as a text message or web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the microprocessor which will preferably further process the received signal for output to the display or alternatively to an auxiliary I O device . A user of device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the keyboard which is preferably a complete alphanumeric keyboard or telephone type keypad in conjunction with the display and possibly an auxiliary I O device . Such composed items may then be transmitted over a communication network through the communication subsystem .

For voice communications overall operation of the device is substantially similar except that received signals would preferably be output to a speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the device . Although voice or audio signal output is preferably accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party the duration of a voice call or other voice call related information for example.

The serial port in would normally be implemented in a personal digital assistant PDA type communication device for which synchronization with a user s desktop computer not shown may be desirable but is an optional device component. Such a port would enable a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and would extend the capabilities of the device by providing for information or software downloads to the device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to thereby enable secure device communication.

A short range communications subsystem is a further optional component which may provide for communication between the device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices. As described in further detail hereinbelow such short range communications components may be particularly useful in controlling processing of messages message attachments and like information.

In an alternative embodiment not explicitly shown in the drawings the mobile device also includes a redirector program. In this embodiment user selected data items can be replicated from the host to the mobile device and vice versa. The configuration and operation of the mobile device having a redirector program is similar to that described herein with respect to .

A user can configure the redirector program to push certain user selected data items to the user s mobile data communication device when the redirector detects that a particular user defined event trigger or trigger point has taken place. When a secondary user defined event trigger or trigger point occurs which could be the same as the initial event trigger or could be a different event the system may subsequently stop redirection. User selected data items preferably include E mail messages calendar events meeting notifications address entries journal entries personal alerts alarms warnings stock quotes news bulletins etc. but could alternatively include any other type of message that is transmitted to the host system or that the host system acquires through the use of intelligent agents such as data that is received after the host system initiates a search of a database a website a bulletin board or other local or remote data store. In some instances only a portion of the data item is transmitted to the mobile device in order to minimize the amount of data transmitted via the wireless network . In these instances the mobile device can optionally send a command message to the host system to receive more or all of the data item if the user desires to receive it.

User defined event triggers that can be detected by the redirector program in the preferred embodiment include external events internal events and networked events. External events preferably include 1 receiving a command message such as message C from the user s mobile data communication device to begin redirection or to execute some other command at the host such as a command to enable the preferred list mode or to add or subtract a particular sender from the preferred list 2 receiving a similar message from some external computer and 3 sensing that the user is no longer in the vicinity of the host system although alternatively an external event can be any other detectable occurrence that is external to the host system. Internal events could be a calendar alarm screen saver activation keyboard timeout programmable timer or any other user defined event that is internal to the host system. Networked events are user defined messages that are transmitted to the host system from another computer coupled to the host system via a network to initiate redirection. These are just some of the events that could be used to initiate replication of the user selected data items from the host system to the mobile device .

Assuming that the redirector program is activated and has been configured by the user either through the sensing of an internal network or external event to replicate certain user data items including messages of type A or C to the mobile device when the message A is received at the host system the redirector program detects its presence and prepares the message for redirection to the mobile device . In preparing the message for redirection the redirector program could compress the original message A could compress the message header or could encrypt the entire message A to create a secure link to the mobile device .

Also programmed into the redirector is the address of the user s mobile data communication device the type of device and whether the device can accept certain types of attachments such as word processing or voice attachments. If the user s type of mobile device cannot accept these types of attachments then the redirector can be programmed to route the attachments to a fax or voice number where the user is located using an attached fax or voice machine or other type of attachment displayer.

The redirector may also be programmed with a preferred list mode that is configured by the user either at the host system or remotely from the user s mobile data communication device by transmitting a command message C. The preferred list contains a list of senders other users whose messages are to be redirected or a list of message characteristics that determine whether a message is to be redirected. If activated the preferred list mode causes the redirector program to operate like a filter only redirecting certain user data items based on whether the data item was sent from a sender on the preferred list or has certain message characteristics that if present will trigger or suppress redirection of the message. In the example of if desktop system was operated by a user on the preferred list of host system and the preferred list option was activated then message A would be redirected. If however desktop was operated by a user not on the host system s preferred list then message A would not be redirected even if the user of the host system had configured the redirector to push messages of type A. The user of the host system can configure the preferred list directly from the desktop system or alternatively the user can then send a command message such as C from the mobile device to the desktop system to activate the preferred list mode or to add or delete certain senders or message characteristics from the preferred list that was previously configured. It should be appreciated that a redirection program could combine message characteristics and preferred sender lists to result in a more finely tuned filter. Messages marked as low priority or that are simple return receipts or message read receipts for example could always be suppressed from redirection while messages from a particular sender would always be redirected.

After the redirector has determined that a particular message should be redirected and it has prepared the message for redirection the redirector software then sends the message A to a secondary memory store located in the mobile device using whatever means are necessary. In a preferred embodiment this method is to send the message A back over the LAN WAN and through the wireless gateway to the mobile data communication device . In doing so the redirector preferably repackages message A as an E mail with an outer envelope B that contains the addressing information of the mobile device although alternative repackaging techniques and protocols could be used such as a TCP IP repackaging and delivery method most commonly used in the alternative server configuration shown in . The wireless gateway requires this outer envelope information B in order to know where to send the redirected message A. Once the message A in B is received by the mobile device the outer envelope B is removed and the original message A is placed in the secondary memory store within the mobile device . Repackaging and removing the outer envelope in this manner causes the mobile computer to appear to be at the same physical location as the host system thus creating a transparent system.

In the case where message C is representative of an external message from a computer on the Internet to the host system and the host has been configured to redirect messages of type C then in a similar manner to message A message C would be repackaged with an outer envelope B and transmitted to the user s mobile device . In the case where message C is representative of a command message from the user s mobile device to the host system the command message C is not redirected but is acted upon by the host system .

If the redirected user data item is an E mail message as described above the user at the mobile device sees the original subject sender s address destination address carbon copy and blind carbon copy. When the user replies to this message or when the user authors a new message the software operating at the mobile device adds a similar outer envelope to the reply message or the new message to cause the message to be routed first to the user s host system which then removes the outer envelope and redirects the message to the final destination such as back to computer . The outgoing redirected message from the user s host system is preferably sent using the E mail address of the host mailbox rather than the address of the mobile device so that it appears to the recipient of the message that the message originated from the user s desktop system rather than the mobile data communication device. Any replies to the redirected message will then be sent to the desktop system which if it is still in redirector mode will repackage the reply and re send it to the user s mobile data device as described above.

In this alternative configuration server preferably maintains a user profile for each user s desktop system including information such as whether a particular user can have data items redirected which types of message and information to redirect how to process various types of message attachments what events will trigger redirection the address of the users mobile data communication device the type of mobile device and the user s preferred list if any. The event triggers are preferably detected at the user s desktop system and can be any of the external internal or network events listed above. The desktop systems preferably detect these events and then transmit a message to the server computer via LAN to initiate redirection or to subsequently halt redirection. Although the user data items are preferably stored at the server computer in this embodiment they could alternatively be stored at each user s desktop system which would then transmit them to the server computer after an event has triggered redirection.

As shown in desktop system generates a message A that is transmitted to and stored at the host system which is the network server operating the redirector program . The message A is for desktop system but in this embodiment user messages are stored at the network server . When an event occurs at desktop system an event trigger is generated and transmitted to the network server which then determines who the trigger is from whether that desktop has redirection capabilities and if so the server operating the redirector program uses the stored configuration information to redirect message A to the mobile computer associated with the user of desktop system .

As described above with reference to message C could be either a command message from a user s mobile data communication device or it could be a message from an external computer such as a computer connected to the Internet . If the message C is from an Internet computer to the user s desktop system and the user has redirection capabilities then the server detects the message C repackages it using electronic envelope B and redirects the repackaged message C in B to the user s mobile device . If the message C is a command message from the user s mobile device then the server simply acts upon the command message.

Turning now to a block diagram showing the interaction of the redirector software with additional components of the host system of the desktop PC to enable more fully the pushing of information from the host system to the user s mobile data communication device is set forth. These additional components are illustrative of the type of event generating systems that can be configured and used with the redirector software and of the type of repackaging systems that can be used to interface with the mobile communication device to make it appear transparent to the user.

The desktop system is connected to LAN and can send and receive data messages signals event triggers etc. to and from other systems connected to the LAN and to external networks such as the Internet or a wireless data network which are also coupled to the LAN . In addition to the standard hardware operating system and application programs associated with a typical microcomputer or workstation the desktop system includes the redirector program a TCP IP sub system an E mail sub system a primary data storage device a screen saver sub system and a keyboard sub system . The TCP IP and E mail subsystems are examples of repackaging systems that can be used to achieve the transparency of the system and the screen saver and keyboard sub systems are examples of event generating systems that can be configured to generate event messages or signals that trigger redirection of the user selected data items.

The method steps carried out by the redirector program are described in more detail in . The basic functions of this program are 1 configure and setup the user defined event trigger points that will start redirection 2 configure the types of user data items for redirection and optionally configure a preferred list of senders whose messages are to be redirected 3 configure the type and capabilities of the user s mobile data communication device including the configuration of attachment handling and type recognition 4 receive messages and signals from the repackaging systems and the event generating systems and 5 command and control the redirection of the user selected data items to the mobile data communication device via the repackaging systems. Other functions not specifically enumerated could also be integrated into this program.

The E Mail sub system is the preferred link to repackaging the user selected data items for transmission to the mobile data communication device and preferably uses industry standard mail protocols such as SMTP POP IMAP MIME and RFC 822 to name but a few. The E Mail sub system can receive messages A from external computers on the LAN or can receive messages C from some external network such as the Internet or a wireless data communication network and stores these messages in the primary data store . Assuming that the redirector has been triggered to redirect messages of this type the redirector detects the presence of any new messages and instructs the E Mail system to repackage the message by placing an outer wrapper B about the original message A or C and by providing the addressing information of the mobile data communication device on the outer wrapper B. As noted above this outer wrapper B is removed by the mobile device and the original message A or C is then recovered thus making the mobile device appear to be the desktop system .

In addition the E Mail sub system receives messages back from the mobile device having an outer wrapper with the addressing information of the desktop system and strips this information away so that the message can be routed to the proper sender of the original message A or C . The E Mail sub system also receives command messages C from the mobile device that are directed to the desktop system to trigger redirection or to carry out some other function. The functionality of the E Mail sub system is controlled by the redirector program .

The TCP IP sub system is an alternative repackaging system. It includes all of the functionality of the E Mail sub system but instead of repackaging the user selected data items as standard E mail messages this system repackages the data items using special purpose TCP IP packaging techniques. This type of special purpose sub system is useful in situations where security and improved speed are important to the user. The provision of a special purpose wrapper that can only be removed by special software on the mobile device provides the added security and the bypassing of E mail store and forward systems can improve speed and real time delivery.

As described previously redirection can be triggered to begin or end upon detecting numerous external internal and networked events or trigger points. Examples of external events include receiving a command message from the user s mobile data communication device to begin redirection receiving a similar message from some external computer sensing that the user is no longer in the vicinity of the host system such as by using the output of a digital camera or by sensing the proximity of the user s mobile device using a wireless connection or any other event that is external to the host system. Internal events could be a calendar alarm screen saver activation keyboard timeout programmable timer or any other user defined event that is internal to the host system. Networked events are user defined messages that are transmitted to the host system from another computer not the mobile device that is connected to the host system via a network to initiate redirection.

The screen saver and keyboard sub systems are examples of systems that are capable of generating internal events. Functionally the redirector program provides the user with the ability to configure the screen saver and keyboard systems so that under certain conditions an event trigger will be generated that can be detected by the redirector to start or stop the redirection process. For example the screen saver system can be configured so that when the screen saver is activated after for example 10 minutes of inactivity on the desktop system an event trigger is transmitted to the redirector which starts redirecting the previously selected user data items. When the screen saver becomes activated for whatever reason a second event trigger is generated in order to halt redirection. In a similar manner the keyboard sub system can be configured to generate event triggers when no key has been depressed for a particular period of time thus indicating that redirection should commence and then to subsequently generate another trigger when a key is depressed to stop redirection. These are just two examples of the numerous application programs and hardware systems internal to the host system that can be used to generate internal event triggers.

Once the redirector program is configured the trigger points or event triggers are enabled at step . The program then waits for messages and signals to begin the redirection process. A message could be an E Mail message or some other user data item than may have been selected for redirection and a signal could be a trigger signal or could be some other type of signal that has not been configured as an event trigger. When a message or signal is detected the program determines whether it is one of the trigger events that has been configured by the user to signal redirection. If so then at step a trigger flag is set indicating that subsequently received user data items in the form of messages that have been selected for redirection should be pushed to the user s mobile data communication device .

If the message or signal is not a trigger event the program then determines at steps and whether the message is respectively a system alarm an E Mail message or some other type of information that has been selected for redirection. If the message or signal is none of these three items then control returns to step where the redirector waits for additional messages to act upon. If however the message is one of these three types of information then the program determines at step whether the trigger flag has been set indicating that the user wants these items redirected to the mobile device. If the trigger flag is set then at step the redirector causes the repackaging system E Mail or TCP IP to add the outer envelope to the user data item and at step the repackaged data item is then redirected to the user s mobile data communication device via LAN WAN wireless gateway and wireless network . Control then returns to step where the program waits for additional messages and signals to act upon. Although not shown explicitly in after step the program could if operating in the preferred list mode determine whether the sender of a particular data item is on the preferred list and if not then the program would skip over steps and and proceed directly back to step . If the sender was on the preferred list then control would similarly pass to steps and for repackaging and transmission of the message from the preferred list sender.

At step the mobile device waits for messages and signals to be generated or received. Assuming that the redirector software operating at the user s desktop system is configured to redirect upon receiving a message from the user s mobile device at step the user can decide to generate a command message that will start redirection. If the user does so then at step the redirection message is composed and sent to the desktop system via the wireless network through the wireless gateway via the Internet to the LAN and is finally routed to the desktop machine . In this situation where the mobile device is sending a message directly to the desktop system no outer wrapper is added to the message such as message C in . In addition to the redirection signal the mobile device could transmit any number of other commands to control the operation of the host system and in particular the redirector program .

For example the mobile could transmit a command to put the host system into the preferred list mode and then could transmit additional commands to add or subtract certain senders from the preferred list. In this manner the mobile device can dynamically limit the amount of information being redirected to it by minimizing the number of senders on the preferred list. Other example commands include 1 a message to change the configuration of the host system to enable the mobile device to receive and process certain attachments and 2 a message to instruct the host system to redirect an entire data item to the mobile device in the situation where only a portion of a particular data item has been redirected.

Turning back to if the user signal or message is not a direct message to the desktop system to begin redirection or some other command then control is passed to step which determines if a message has been received. If a message is received by the mobile and it is a message from the user s desktop as determined at step then at step a desktop redirection flag is set on for this message and control passes to step where the outer envelope is removed. Following step or in the situation where the message is not from the user s desktop as determined at step control passes to step which displays the message for the user on the mobile device s display. The mobile unit then returns to step and waits for additional messages or signals.

If the mobile device determines that a message has not been received at step then control passes to step where the mobile determines whether there is a message to send. If not then the mobile unit returns to step and waits for additional messages or signals. If there is at least one message to send then at step the mobile determines whether it is a reply message to a message that was received by the mobile unit. If the message to send is a reply message then at step the mobile determines whether the desktop redirection flag is on for this message. If the redirection flag is not on then at step the reply message is simply transmitted from the mobile device to the destination address via the wireless network . If however the redirection flag is on then at step the reply message is repackaged with the outer envelope having the addressing information of the user s desktop system and the repackaged message is then transmitted to the desktop system at step . As described above the redirector program executing at the desktop system then strips the outer envelope and routes the reply message to the appropriate destination address using the address of the desktop system as the from field so that to the recipient of the redirected message it appears as though it originated from the user s desktop system rather than the mobile data communication device.

If at step the mobile determines that the message is not a reply message but an original message then control passes to step where the mobile determines if the user is using the redirector software at the desktop system by checking the mobile unit s configuration. If the user is not using the redirector software then the message is simply transmitted to the destination address at step . If however the mobile determines that the user is using the redirector software at the desktop system then control passes to step where the outer envelope is added to the message. The repackaged original message is then transmitted to the desktop system at step which as described previously strips the outer envelope and routes the message to the correct destination. Following transmission of the message at step control of the mobile returns to step and waits for additional messages or signals.

The host system is separated from any external networks by a firewall system . Firewall systems are known in this field and provide a security function for protecting an internal corporate network from any external networks. The firewall is in turn connected to an external network such as the Internet which is in turn connected to a relay system and then to the wireless network . As noted above the wireless network could be any type of digital or analog wireless communication network such as a packet data network a cellular network a digital cellular network a satellite network a microwave network etc.

The mobile data communication device B is configured to operate on the wireless network . In addition the mobile data communication device B is preferably configured to operate on one or more short range wireless frequencies in order to wirelessly communicate information A B between the mobile device B and the attachment displayers . The mobile device B and the attachment displayers could be Bluetooth enabled devices for communicating at the short range frequencies associated with the Bluetooth wireless standard. Other short range wireless standards could also be utilized. The frequencies at which the short range communication link operate could be RF microwave cellular optical or Infrared frequencies. The attachment displayers are used by the mobile device B to process the attachment element B of the datagram and may be one or more of the following devices printers fax machines telephones cellular phones copying machines video display or any other type of device capable of processing an attachment.

In the system shown in a datagram with an attached file is sent to the host system . The host system then sends the datagram with the attachment intact to the desktop A of the recipient of the datagram via the datagram component A. The datagram component A recognizes the recipient address in the datagram and subsequently forwards the datagram on to the desktop system A. The redirector component B of the host system B also sends the datagram A stripped of the attachment B through the host firewall to the relay and then on to the mobile device B via the Internet and the wireless network . In a preferred embodiment the attachment B is not initially redirected by the host system when the datagram A is redirected. Alternatively it is possible that automatic forwarding of attachments is possible especially if the attachment is in a format that can be handled by the mobile device. The datagram A contains the original message and also contains information about the attachment B such as the file name size and file type.

In a preferred embodiment after the datagram A minus the attachment B is received at the mobile device B the mobile device B will receive a command either from the host system or from the user of the mobile device to find an attachment displayer within its vicinity to process the attachment B. Alternatively the mobile device B or user may automatically attempt to find an attachment displayer when the datagram A is received. Preferably through short range wireless communication A B the mobile device B will query A attachment displayers in the local area of the mobile device B to determine whether they can process the attachment B. The attachment displayers will then send back B to the mobile device B information pertaining to their location electronic address and the type of attachment files they can handle. The mobile device then processes this information regarding the attachment displayers and sends the host system an attachment displayer choice to use with the attachment B. The attachment component C of the host system receives the attachment displayer choice from the mobile device B and will then send the attachment B to the chosen attachment displayer either through the wireless network directly through the Internet via a LAN connection via a telephone or cellular connection or via any other type of connection as specified by the information provided from the chosen attachment displayer .

In an alternative embodiment of this system the attachment component C of the host system would contain a database of attachment displayers to which it sends attachments B by default depending on the file type. This database would include such information as displayer location compatibility and security. In this embodiment of the system the mobile device does not chose the attachment displayer in real time although the user may configure the system in advance to use a particular attachment displayer contained in the database. Alternatively the host system may prompt the user of the mobile device B to select from a list of potential attachment displayers or the host may actively determine the location of the mobile device B and then present a list of potential attachment displayers for selection by the user based upon positioning information of the mobile device in relation to the potential attachment displayers .

Having obtained this information about the available attachment displayers the mobile device B in this step then transmits the availability information to the host system . In step the host determines whether the attachment B is a compatible format for at least one of the attachment displayers that were discovered in step . If a compatible attachment displayer is found then this device is selected for processing the attachment B. If a compatible device is not found however then in step the attachment B is converted into a suitable format by the host system for one of the discovered attachment displayers . In step the attachment displayer selected by the host system then sends the mobile device B its electronic routing address. This electronic address can be an IP address a telephone number or a machine address. The mobile device B then sends the routing address of the attachment displayer back to the host system in step . In step the attachment component C of the host system uses the routing address to redirect the converted attachment B to the selected attachment displayer . The host system then notifies the mobile device B in step that the attachment B has been redirected to the attachment displayer .

Alternatively to the method described in instead of the host system selecting the appropriate attachment displayer the selection could be made at the mobile device B. For example knowing the type of attachment at the mobile device B which could be provided in the datagram A and having discovered the available attachment displayers the mobile device B could then select the appropriate attachment displayer either automatically or based on input from the user of the mobile device B. Electronic address information of the selected attachment displayer would then be routed to the host system which would then transmit the attachment B directly to the selected attachment displayer by whatever network connection is appropriate.

If the attachment is not compatible with any of the attachment displayers in the attachment component database in step then the host may query the mobile device B in step . In step the mobile device B interrogates attachment displayers within the mobile device s vicinity preferably via a short range wireless communication exchange A B. The mobile device B then displays the information that the responsive attachment displayers sent back to the device B in step . This information can include routing address compatibility and physical location. The user of the mobile device B may then make the selection of the attachment displayer in step . In step the mobile device B then sends the host system the selection of the attachment displayer including the routing information for the selected device .

Alternatively the host system may make the selection of the appropriate attachment displayer using location information of the mobile device B. This location information can be derived based upon communications between the mobile device B and the wireless network or it can be based upon a query of the mobile device B to transmit its location information to the host system which may be obtainable by a variety of methods such as an internal GPS receiver a triangulation methodology with a plurality of base stations of the wireless network etc. In any event the host system uses the mobile device s location information to select the most appropriate attachment displayer by first selecting the attachment displayers in the database of displayers that are capable of processing the transaction and then by comparing location information of the selected displayers with the location information of the mobile device B.

An alternative embodiment to is illustrated in . sets forth a system for redirecting messages having attachments preferably using the redirector program discussed above. This system preferably includes an attachment processing component C that provides the additional functionality described below. The attachment processing component C converts attachments B into one or more formats that are acceptable for the mobile device B prior to transmission to the mobile device B such that the mobile device B can display the attachment B to the user thereby not requiring the use of attachment displayers . In this manner the attachment displayers may be circumvented. However in this case the wireless network preferably is robust and has a large bandwidth to accommodate large attachment transmissions.

In one embodiment of the attachment processing component C attachments are trimmed in that only a portion of the attachment B is sent to the mobile device B. If the user after viewing the attachment desires to see the rest of the attachment then the user may send a command to push the remaining portion of the attachment to the mobile device B. Alternatively the user may request the attachment to be sent to an attachment displayer . When the attachment processing component C converts the attachments the converted attachment is preferably compressed in size and may be encrypted. The packaging of the attachments if needed is accomplished as discussed above. Advantageously the processing and overhead associated with conversions from a plurality of attachment formats to one or more common formats compatible with the mobile device B is accomplished at the host system .

Redirection of message attachments between a host system a mobile data communication device and one or more attachment displayers has been described in detail above. These general concepts may be further extended to the processing of not only message attachments but also other information as described in further detail below. Therefore in the following description the more general term information processor is used in reference to any device that may process an attachment file or other information. Although an attachment displayer is an example of an information processor it will be appreciated that according to the embodiments described below an information processor may also process types of information other than message attachments.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention each information processor is registered or listed in a preferably publicly accessible directory. is a block diagram of a system with an information processor and associated service information providers. The system shown in includes a printer as the information processor service information providers in the form of a services directory and a Universal Description Discovery and Integration UDDI service cloud all connected to a WAN shown as the Internet . Although shows a printer as the information processor those skilled in the art will appreciate that similar arrangements may be implemented for any other attachment displayers such as fax machines telephones cellular phones copying machines video displays or any other type of device capable of processing an attachment. Similarly depending upon the preferences of an owner or operator of the printer the printer and directory may instead be connected to a LAN instead of WAN . For example if the printer is owned by a company and is intended for use only by its employees through the company s LAN then the printer and directory may be connected to the LAN instead of the Internet . However where the owner or operator of printer wishes to make printing services publicly available then such an arrangement as shown in with the printer and directory connected to a WAN such as the Internet may be preferred.

An information processor such as the printer may be associated with one or more service information providers. The directory and UDDI service cloud are examples of systems from which service information i.e. any information required to access a service determine the type of service determine the location or type of the information processor that provides the service etc. may be obtained. Although two service information providers are shown in an information processor may be associated with only one or alternatively more than two service information providers. Operations involving each of the service information providers and are described in further detail below.

With reference first to the directory the printer and any other information processor not shown like the attachment displayers described above in conjunction with may have respective unique identifiers as shown at or routing addresses. In a further embodiment each service or capability of each information processor may also have a unique address. The directory then associates specific information processor addresses with corresponding service addresses if any for that information processor and may also associate inter related information processors that may have some predetermined location logical or service affiliation. For example a printer fax machine and a display or projector within a boardroom may be linked within the directory . Similarly a directory record for a black and white printer might also include a reference or link to a directory record for a physically proximate printer with colour or otherwise enhanced printing capabilities. Information processors or services could also be grouped by type of service to provide for service type searching. The operation and contents of the directory will be described in further detail below.

An information processor or service address may be of one or more address types each address type suited for supporting different interaction modes for example. An address type may be selected based on information processor owner or operator preference the types of mobile devices that an information processor is intended to support the type of transactions that an information processor is designed to handle or possibly further alternative or additional criteria. It is also contemplated that each information processor may have more than one type of associated address for example to support multiple device or transaction types.

Information processors or services using an IP addressing scheme including the current version 4 IPv4 or future versions such as version 6 IPv6 may be best suited for implementing a software program interface such as an application programming interface API for interacting with the information processor or service whereas a related Universal Resource Locator URL addressing scheme may be better suited for Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or Secure HTTP HTTPS based interactions. E mail addressing on the other hand may be used for asynchronous interactions such as in an information push technique. For example the printer and its associated services such as black and white printing and colour printing may appear in the directory as follows 

As described briefly above more than one addressing scheme may be used in the directory and a user wishing to access one or more of the services of an information processor may then select the one of the addresses in a format best suited to a desired type of processing transaction.

The information processor and services directory may be indexed by a unique identifier. Each identifier may correspond to a particular registered information processor although each service may also be indexed with a different identifier. The directory preferably provides at least an association between a unique identifier and an information processor. Where information processor services are separately indexed an information processor record in the directory preferably refers to or is otherwise linked with the records of the services it provides. Each device and service may support configurable processing options which may also be indexed by unique identifiers in the directory . If the unique identifier is not the address of the information processor where access to the services of the information processor is to be restricted for example the directory should also provide device and or service addresses. A further function of address translation might be provided by the directory in order to provide equivalent addresses such as IP addresses URL addresses and E mail addresses for different interaction modes.

In general any service information required in order to access a particular information processor or its services could be provided in an information processor and service directory . As such other functions or operations associated with a directory will be apparent to those skilled in the art and are therefore considered to be within the scope of the present invention. When the service directory is indexed by unique identifiers then service information may include the service address as well as other service or information processor related information.

Turning now to the UDDI based service information provider the UDDI service cloud UDDI is one of the most common solutions for the discovery and integration of new services. UDDI provides a browser and API centric view of dealing with dynamic services. The browser method treats potential service users as always online. The API method also assumes always online and continuous high speeds for program to program communication. The UDDI method of host service registration is described by the following documents which may be found on the www.uddi.org Internet web site Version 2.0 Programmer s API Specification Version 2.0 Data Structure Specification Version 2.0 Replication Specification Version 2.0 Operator s Specification Executive White Paper version 1.0 Technical White Paper version 1.0 Using WSDL in a UDDI Registry 1.05 Using WSCL in a UDDI Registry 1.02 and Providing a Taxonomy for Use in UDDI Version 2.

As those skilled in the art will appreciate a UDDI service cloud such as is normally distributed throughout the Internet but is shown connected to the Internet in in order to avoid congestion in the drawing. In UDDI a user is able to make user of so called marketplace web sites and search portals normally also connected to the Internet to find required services. The UDDI service cloud acts as a worldwide repository of service information that is accessible in a distributed manner through the Internet . Behind the service cloud are actually databases or directories perhaps using LDAP services or some other fast look up technology to satisfy service requests. These databases might be distributed around the globe and may communicate using a UDDI propagation technique as defined in the UDDI specification. Populating these databases are service providers that register service information associated with their information processors and or services in the large service registry system.

UDDI and other similar types of service registry definitions all define a central store where all services can be found if desired. The UDDI specifications describe ways to manipulate change and replicate this information between databases in the UDDI cloud . Additionally the services may categorized into taxonomies to further help with locating and identifying the service needed. Taxonomies provide for classification and identification of registered services.

When a company person or organization decides that they want to create a public or semi public service that should be made available to a wide audience of users the service creator or service provider propagates the service information to the UDDI service cloud one of its underlying databases or directories or possibly a new database or directory. In this is accomplished through the UDDI API in the printer . The UDDI API may be configured to automatically publish service information for the printer or its services to a new or existing database or directory in the UDDI service cloud . Once the service information has been published a user of a mobile communication device not shown may access the UDDI service cloud to search for a particular type of service to search for information processors in a particular location or to browse service information for registered information processors and services to find an information processor or service supporting a processing operation to be performed. Alternatively the UDDI service cloud may be accessed using a unique identifier of an information processor or service to obtain service information for a particular information processor or service associated with the unique identifier.

The UDDI API may be developed and installed by a manufacturer or owner of an information processor such as the printer . In addition the API may be available separately from an information processor and each time it is purchased and installed by an owner or operator of an information processor a new service registry entry is created in the UDDI service cloud . Existing information processors could thereby be enabled for discovery via UDDI whenever its services are to be made available.

Within the UDDI cloud further propagation of service information may take place so that the service information is distributed throughout the entire system of databases or directories . Essentially the act of publishing the service information once allows for a publish once access anywhere design approach. This publishing can be done programmatically or through manual processes through the UDDI API definitions. Part of UDDI is a rich set of XML and SOAP based commands that allow service providers to securely establish modify and delete entries in UDDI databases.

A UDDI implementation may also provide a list of new services for potential service users. Service users are typically web browser users but could also be software applications or programs looking for services. A service user would typically start up a web browser to search for service information and perform searches until the information is found. This model is based on a request response model or a pull architecture. However it is also possible that services may be advertised by pushing service information to users. Such service advertising is not restricted only to UDDI based systems but may also be implemented in directory based systems as well.

As described briefly above an information processor or its services may be associated with more than one type of service information provider. For a private network in which access to information processors and services are restricted to network users a private directory such as may be most suitable. When an information processor is to be accessible to a larger or more distributed group of users a UDDI based system may be more feasible. In some circumstances such as when only certain services are to be publicly accessible whereas others are to be available only to a specific group of users then public services could be registered in a UDDI service cloud and private services could be listed in a directory.

The fax machine preferably has a unique associated identifier by which related information such as one or more device addresses service addresses or links to records for associated services are indexed in the directory . With the additional IP URL and E mail addressing as described above the fax machine is effectively converted into an intelligent device capable of providing its capabilities on the Internet or another network such as an Internet based print to fax device while retaining its more traditional PSTN based facsimile functions.

Each information processor and in may be any device or system capable of processing files or other information. Some information processors such as may be connected to the WAN while others such as and communicate with the WAN through further systems and . One or more of the information processors as shown at may also have interfaces to and addresses on additional networks such as the PSTN . Although the system diagram of is more general than those shown in those skilled in the art will appreciate that still other arrangements of information processors networks and directories may well be associated with the same WAN . Also any of the information processors or services supported by the information processors may also or instead be registered with a UDDI service cloud as described above. Thus is intended for illustrative purposes only the invention is in no way limited thereto.

In information processors such as and their associated services are registered in an information processor and service directory on the WAN . Information processors such as may similarly be registered in WAN directory even though such processors like the fax machine in may have additional addresses on networks such as the PSTN . For each registered information processor and possibly each service provided thereby the directory may store such information and provide such functionality as described above including for example associating a unique identifier with an information processor or service any associated configurable processing options and one or more addresses of the associated information processor or service and providing alternate equivalent addresses such as IP addresses URL addresses and E mail addresses for different interaction modes for an information processor or service.

Other information processors such as and may be configured for operation on a LAN or in conjunction with a computer or network . The computer may for example be a server computer or an ISP system providing a gateway for subscriber systems not shown to access the Internet . Each of the systems and may have its own local information processor and service directory and in which information processors connected thereto and their associated services are registered. Such local directories would preferably be accessible by users authorized to access the systems and . As described briefly above for example where LAN is a corporate network located behind a security firewall the information processor and directory may only be accessible by corporate network users. Alternatively the corporate network information processor or the directory itself might also be registered in the directory if local services are to be offered outside the network . Any access to such a restricted information processor or information in the directory could then be controlled at the firewall .

Similar access arrangements could be implemented at the system . The information processors and would preferably be registered in a local directory as well as the WAN directory if the services of the information processors and are to be provided to users through the WAN .

Each of the networks shown in may further include additional directories such as shown at . For example directories may be specific to particular services or types of devices. In the system of directory may be a printer or print service directory which stores information for all printers or other information processors supporting print services that are connected to or accessible through the WAN . The directory may similarly be a fax machine and service directory. Other specific multiple directory arrangements will also be apparent to those skilled in the art.

Although system topologies may vary the general operations of the directories and information processors will be substantially the same. An information processor or service may first be selected for example by a user of a mobile communication device or a host system associated with the mobile device as described above. In one embodiment of the invention a mobile device user selects an information processor at his or her current location. A directory may in some cases then be queried with a unique identifier of the selected information processor or service for example. The service directory returns specific information requested or all information for the information processor or service. Service information may also or instead be available from a UDDI registry or service cloud. As described above UDDI may support service type searching identifier based access browsing and selection of processors or services or possible other types of access and service or processor selection.

In a directory based system if an information processor having a unique identifier is selected then its unique identifier which as described above may or may not be its associated routing address must then be determined. illustrates several interfaces using which a unique identifier associated with an information processor may be determined. As shown in the Figure an information processor may incorporate an infrared module shown as an Infrared Data Association IrDA compatible interface an RF module such as a Bluetooth module or an 802.11 module a bar code or a text label . The unique identifier associated with the information processor as well as any identifiers associated with the services of the processor can then be determined and input to a similarly enabled mobile communication device as described in further detail below. As will be apparent to those skilled in the art Bluetooth and 802.11 refer to sets of specifications available from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers relating to wireless personal area networks and wireless LANs respectively.

It should be noted that the interfaces shown in are not mutually exclusive. An information processor may incorporate more than one of the interfaces and in order to provide alternative identifier determination processes. Similarly a single mobile device may have more than one corresponding interface such that a user may have a choice as to how an information processor or service identifier is to be determined and input to the device.

Each of the different types of interfaces in provides a different mechanism for communicating with a mobile device. Three of these are active powered interfaces that can be triggered to transmit the unique identifier to a mobile device whereas the others are passive relying on certain capabilities of the mobile device to capture the unique identifier of the information processor .

The active interfaces shown in are based on an IrDA port a Bluetooth communication module and an 802.11 module . When queried by a similarly enabled mobile communication device these interfaces preferably transmit at least the unique identifier associated with the information processor and possibly additional identifiers corresponding to each service supported by the information processor back to the mobile device. As shown in and described above a mobile device may include one or more short range communication subsystems which would provide for such communication between the mobile device and an information processor . An additional benefit of active interfaces such as and is that they can not only transmit the unique identifier to the mobile device but may also be used to exchange further information with a mobile device as described in detail below. However they are dependent on their power source to be operational.

The passive interfaces shown in include one or more encoded barcodes and text labels . A barcode scanner implemented in a mobile device as an auxiliary I O subsystem for example may be used to automatically determine a unique identifier coded into a barcode label . If an information processor and its services are separately registered in a directory the processor may have multiple barcode labels any of which may be scanned depending upon the particular service to be accessed. Text labelling of an information processor provides a further option for a mobile device user to manually enter the appropriate identifier using a keyboard or other such user interface on a mobile device. When a barcode is printed on a label attached to the device it will be apparent that processor and or service identifier text may be printed on the same label provided that the text does not overlap or otherwise interfere with the barcode . Passive interfaces such as and are inexpensive and do not need power source maintenance. However they cannot exchange data with mobile devices.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other additional or alternative interfaces may also facilitate transfer of unique identifiers from an information processor to a mobile device and possibly exchange of further information between an information processor and device. For example coded surface acoustic wave SAW based communication subsystems such as those disclosed in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 863 944 titled Wireless Communication System Using Surface Acoustic Wave SAW Second Harmonic Techniques filed on May 23 2001 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 864 507 titled Wireless Communication System Using Surface Acoustic Wave SAW Single Phase Unidirectional Transducer SPUDT Type Techniques filed on May 24 2001 both incorporated in their entirety herein by reference are further contemplated passive interfaces.

A mobile communication device is thereby able to determine the unique identifier associated with a particular information processor and or service. A query can then be prepared and sent to a directory in which the information processor or service has been registered. Like information processor and service addresses directories may also be addressed according to one or more of the above schemes depending upon a preferred interaction mechanism. Directory addresses may for example be available from a central repository or provided by the information processor through one of the interfaces . The directory responds to such a query with any information required by the device to use the selected information processor or service as described in further detail below. A mobile device may also obtain service information from a UDDI service cloud or like system as described above.

Before proceeding with a detailed description of mobile device controlled processing by an information processor the functional components or modules of an example information processor will first be described. shows the major functional components of a sample information processor a printer. The printer in is an illustrative example of an information processor although it is to be understood that other information processors may include similar functional components.

As shown in in accordance with an aspect of the invention a printer may comprise in addition to a substantially conventional printing apparatus designated an identifier module interface and data processor a network interface and SMTP listener an E mail processor and sequencer a print by reference processor a document rendering and conversion engine a printer driver a printer interface and a printer administration and job control module .

The identifier module interface and data processor module would normally be implemented only when the printer is enabled with an active interface to a mobile device such as the IrDA port or Bluetooth module shown in . The interface and data processor module manages communication to and from the active interfaces including for example receipt of and responses to unique identifier queries from mobile devices and receipt of information to be printed from the mobile device and also acts as an overall data and command processor. For example in response to a print by reference command signal described below received from a mobile device through an active interface the module would preferably invoke an operation by the print by reference processor to retrieve data referenced in the command signal and pass the data to the rendering and conversion engine. The interface and data processor module may also be configured to effectively advertise device identifiers or services by transmitting signals from an active interface. Such signals would serve to notify mobile devices in the vicinity of the printer of the availability of the printer and its associated services. Since only active interfaces provide for exchange of information between an information processor and a mobile device an identifier module and data processor need only be implemented if an information processor such as includes at least one active interface.

The network interface module as will be apparent to those skilled in the art provides network connectivity for the information processor and preferably supports popular network protocols. In the example system of the printer preferably includes a network interface that supports such protocols as TCP IP and HTTP commonly used to exchange information on the Internet.

An SMTP listener provides a mechanism for receiving SMTP messages. Other message interfaces will be apparent to those skilled in the art and could be included in addition to or instead of the SMTP listener to change or expand the messaging capabilities of an information processor.

The E mail processor and sequencer module preferably provides the functionality of opening SMTP and possibly other messages decomposing the message into individual components such as message text and attachments and passing a sequenced data stream to downstream processing components such as the rendering and conversion engine . The E mail processor and sequencer module also preferably creates administration messages that may be packaged for example as SMTP messages to be emailed back to a user with the result of a print request.

A print by reference processor provides for search and print functionality. The print by reference processor receives reference locators provided in a print by reference command described below from a mobile device and uses them to retrieve information and pass such information to downstream processing components such as the rendering and conversion engine .

A rendering and conversion engine accepts data streams and documents and converts them to formats that can be rendered on the printer . Once information has been converted the rendering and conversion engine uses the suitable printer driver to prepare a data stream appropriate for the printer . The printer driver provides the software interface for services available on the physical printer whereas the printer interface provides the physical interface to the printer .

The printer administration and job control module manages such administration and control activities as printer condition monitoring print job queuing printer or print job error recovery print job retries printer and print job status monitoring and the like.

Of the modules shown in the identifier module interface and data processor where at least one active interface is provided the network interface the SMTP listener or similar messaging module and the E mail processor and sequencer module would likely be common to printers and other types of information processors. The remaining modules as shown in are printer specific modules although other information processors may include components and modules that perform similar functions.

Although not shown in a UDDI API may also be provided if the printer or any of its services are to be accessible via UDDI. As described above UDDI based information processor or service access may be provided instead of or in addition to identifier and directory based processor or service access.

A print by reference processor as described above embodies a search and retrieve function. Thus other information processors may include a similar processor module to retrieve and display E mail fax transmit or perform other operations on information identified in a command signal or alternatively to retrieve and execute a software application or automated script. Similarly although the document rendering and conversion engine in converts a document to a printer format a rendering and conversion engine may be provided in other information processors to convert information into appropriate display transfer or processing formats. For example received information intended for input to a particular system or software program associated with the information processor may be converted into a suitable input format by a rendering and conversion engine. Although other types of information processor would not necessarily include a printer driver a printer interface and a printer administration and job control module the driver interface and control functionality would typically be provided by information processor specific modules.

The management of information processing operations on an information processor will now be described in detail with reference to . As above the description relates to a printer as an illustrative example of an information processor but the invention is in no way limited thereto. In addition although identifier and directory based operations are described below information processors and services may also or instead be discovered and accessed through UDDI.

The mobile communication device is adapted to operate within the wireless communication network . A wireless gateway provides for communication from the wireless network to other networks such as the WAN or Internet and possibly other networks such as . The processor and services directory is preferably accessible through the WAN or Internet . The network interface and printer gateway includes such components or modules as through and provides for connection of the printer to the Internet and possibly communication between the printer and the device where an active interface such as IrDA port or an RF module is implemented. The RF module may for example be a Bluetooth module and 802.11 module or other short range RF communications interface. The interfaces and operate substantially as described above to provide one or more unique identifiers associated with the printer or its services to the mobile communication device . The active interfaces and further provide for the exchange of information between the printer and device .

As described briefly above service information associated with the information processor and or any of its services may be stored in the directory and is preferably indexed according to a unique identifier associated with the processor printer or the services supported thereby. The device first determines the unique identifier of the printer or a selected one of its services. If the device incorporates multiple interfaces then the unique address for the selected printer or service may be captured using any of such interfaces. The different identifier capture operations corresponding to the four interfaces through are shown in at S S Sand S

In the operation at S the identifier is captured via the IrDA port on the printer and a corresponding port not shown in the device . The identifier may be transmitted to the device in response to a query not shown from the device to the printer or transmitted from the printer as an advertising or notify signal. At Sthe identifier is captured by scanning an appropriate barcode with a scanner in the device . Sindicates an identifier capture operation using the RF printer interface . A manual identifier entry operation using a keyboard or other input interface on the device with reference to text labelling is designated S. Depending on the particular interfaces implemented in the printer and the device either of these operations S Smay be performed to capture the identifier for the printer or an associated service.

When the printer or service identifier has been captured by the mobile device a query S may be sent to the directory for service information on the service or printer . A routing address of the directory which may for example be an IP address a URL or an E mail address may be known to the user of the device or stored on the device . Alternatively the directory routing address may be available from a central directory address repository or from some other source accessible by the mobile device . The query is transmitted through the wireless network gateway and Internet to the directory .

The directory then responds S to the query with service information relating to the selected printer or service. The service information may include an address such as an IP address URL or E mail address of the printer or the particular selected service an indication of which if any print settings may be configured in a print request a default or preferred information exchange protocol as well as any other information required by the device in order to use the printer or its services. The device may then store the service information provided by the directory into an internal data store for later retrieval and use in subsequent print operations. The directory may also provide information for any related registered information processors and services such as other information processors in the vicinity of the printer or other enhanced services offered by the printer or other processors in its vicinity.

When the printer or its services have been registered in a UDDI system a device may discover the printer or services by searching or browsing databases or directories in a UDDI service cloud through the wireless network wireless gateway and Internet . Service information for an information processor or service may then be obtained by the mobile device through the Internet wireless gateway and wireless network .

The mobile device may also store the routing address and any other information required to use a particular printer or service in an internal data store. For example the information associated with a printer in a user s office or home may be stored in a device store and designated as a default information processor for print operations and the information for other printers may be stored on the device when received. Instead of executing the initial printer identifier capture and directory query operations a user may then simply select a printer or service from a list of those for which required information is stored on the device. A user interface such as a menu driven interface may be provided on the device to allow the user to select an operation such as print and then a particular information processor such as a printer for which all required information is resident on the mobile device. The user may display a menu as depicted in by providing a particular input to the device using a device keyboard keypad or auxiliary input element while information is being displayed on the device screen or a device screen cursor is located on an information indicator or identifier a file name message title or the like for example.

The menu preferably includes operations relevant to the particular type of information displayed or selected when the menu is invoked. In the menu the user may view edit save or print the selected information. Further functions may also be supported as indicated by the dots in the menu .

When the user selects print from the menu by highlighting print with a cursor as indicated by shading in the menu and depressing a key or providing some other input on the device for example a further menu or list relating to the print function will preferably be displayed. An example of a menu is depicted in .

Print menu preferably lists all printers and services for which all required service information is available on the device i.e. printer printer and service in the above example as well as a selection to use a new printer or service. The print menu may also provide a choice between transfer mechanisms and or addressing schemes to be used for each configured printer or service. For a new printer or service the user is preferably able to select an identifier capture mode or alternatively a UDDI based discovery operation. Such options for each configured or new printer or service may instead be displayed in a further menu upon selection of a particular printer or service or selection to configure a new printer or service. As those skilled in the art will appreciate further and alternative menu choices may also be provided. Example menus and are intended for illustrative purposes only.

Thus using such an interface a user may select to print using a printer for which service information is already stored on the device and thereby avoid the above initial operations associated with a print operation. If the user selects to configure a new printer or service the above identifier capture and possible directory query would then proceed substantially as described above or alternatively a new printer or service may be located and configured by obtaining service information.

Once the service information is available on a mobile device the mobile device sends a communication signal to the information processor. In response to the communication signal the information processor performs an information processing operation. In the example of data resident on the mobile device is to be printed on the printer . When both the printer and the mobile device include active interfaces the communication signal i.e. the information to be printed may be sent to the printer directly through an active interface thereby avoiding the airtime costs and time delay associated with transmission of the information over the wireless network . As indicated at Sand Srespectively the information may be transmitted via the IrDA port or the RF module in response to a menu selection as described above for example. Path Sillustrates information exchange using an IP address or URL address for the printer provided by the directory . IP or URL address based information transfer may be necessary for example where the mobile device or the printer does not have an active interface or where secure communications using such a protocol as HTTPS may be desired.

As described above the printer may also have an assigned E mail address. The mobile device may then transmit the information to be printed to the printer via an email path designated as Sin . When the device is operating in conjunction with redirector software on a host system the information to be printed may first be sent to a desktop computer or a server computer through the wireless network and wireless gateway . The information may then be repackaged by the host system into an E mail message or attached to an E mail message and sent to the E mail address of the printer . When the E mail message is received at the printer the E mail processor and sequencer module and the rendering and conversion engine perform any necessary conversion operations and through an appropriate printer driver and printer interface print the information as indicated at S. This E mail communication path may be preferred for example when asynchronous processing is acceptable or desired or where further processing of the information may be necessary.

Although the path Sbetween the mobile device and host system is shown as bypassing the Internet and security firewall those skilled in the art will appreciate that such communications like any other external communications with the host system will actually be carried out through the firewall and unless the gateway is directly connected to the host system the path Swill connect to the host system through the Internet . However it should also be apparent from the description above that communications between a mobile device and a host system may be encrypted which effectively extends the firewall to the mobile device such that the path Smay be considered to be behind the firewall as shown in the sense that communications on that path are secure. If the information is of a sensitive or confidential nature then the host system may encrypt the E mail it sends to the printer using Secure Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions S MIME or Pretty Good Privacy PGP for example. The E mail processor module would then decrypt the encrypted E mail from the host system to recover the information to be printed.

Provided that a mechanism for E mail communication is available between the mobile device and the printer then E mail based printing of information from a mobile device will be possible. Such an E mail transfer mechanism may be either indirect through an intermediate system such as or more direct between the mobile device and the printer through the wireless network some sort of gateway and the Internet . E mail transfers may also be in the clear or encrypted using PGP for example. However the information processing management systems and methods of the present invention are in no way restricted to such secure communication arrangements.

When the information to be printed is received by the printer the printer may print not only the information but also a separator or cover page identifying for example an owner of the printed information the number of pages printed and possibly other information related to the print job or the content printed. Particularly where a printer or its services are used by many users as is often the case with network printers multiple print jobs may be in a printer output tray at any time. Such a separator or cover page allows a user to more easily identify and retrieve a printout.

A print by reference operation begins with a capture of the unique identifier for the printer or a selected one of its services by the mobile device . As described above depending upon the capabilities of the mobile device and the interfaces and implemented in the printer the mobile device may capture an identifier via an IrDA port S by scanning a bar code S through an RF interface S or by a user manually entering S text label characters on a keyboard or other user interface of the mobile device . Using the unique identifier a query may then be sent S to the directory which then responds S with any service information required for the device to use the printer or a service provided thereby. Service information may instead be obtained through a UDDI service cloud not shown . These initial operations are preferably substantially the same as those described above in conjunction with . If all required service information for the selected printer or service has been stored on the mobile device then the user may access the stored service information for example through a series of menus as also described above and thereby avoid the initial operations.

If the mobile device and printer are enabled with active interfaces then a communication signal including a print by reference command or signal including a reference locator for information to be printed may be exchanged directly with the printer through the IrDA port or RF module as indicated at Sand S respectively. A print by reference signal may instead be sent to an IP or URL address of the printer as indicated at S. When E mail communication or asynchronous processing is desired then a communication signal containing the reference locator for the information to be printed may be sent to a host system or service which may then encapsulate the reference locator into an E mail message or E mail message attachment possibly encrypt the E mail and forward the E mail to the printer or service E mail address S .

The reference locator for the information to be printed may be an address or other pointer. For example the reference locator may be a URL that can be accessed by an Internet server not shown to provide content such as product marketing information and the like. The reference locator may also invoke a search of an external information source identifying for example the information source a search engine to be used and search parameters to control the search.

The print by reference processor in the network interface and printer gateway uses the reference locator obtained from the mobile device through an active interface or a printer or service IP URL or E mail address to request the information to be printed from an information source S . As described above the information source may be an Internet service not shown which uses the reference locator to retrieve the information to be printed by accessing a specified Internet location or performing a search for example. The information to be printed such as web page content or search results is then returned to the printer gateway S . Like the mobile device to printer information transfers the information retrieval operation between the printer gateway and an information source such as the Internet may be based on any common transfer mechanism including but in no way limited to the above IP URL or E mail based communications.

The rendering and conversion engine renders and converts the information returned by the Internet server or other information source. The information is then printed S on the printer through an appropriate printer driver and the printer interface . The printer may also print a cover or separator page to identify the printout owner the reference locator used to locate the information to be printed and possibly other information related to the print job.

Since the information to be printed may be in any of a plurality of formats including various file types associated with different software application programs or commonly used Internet information formats such as HTML WML and XML a plurality of rendering and conversion engines are preferably provided in any information processor. Therefore printer may incorporate multiple rendering and conversion engines. The rendering and conversion capabilities of the printer are preferably registered in the directory possibly as different services or as part of service information. A user of a mobile device is then able to determine whether or not the selected printer is able to process information of the type to be printed. If necessary an alternate printer or service may then be selected. For example the user of device may send a service type query to the directory in order to find an information processor supporting the type of service required to perform a desired operation. UDDI based systems may be especially in such circumstances when a mobile device must find or discover new information processors or services.

The print operation illustrated in involves printing of an E mail message sent to the printer from the mobile device . Such a print operation begins with a capture of the unique identifier for the printer or a selected one of its services by the device via an IrDA port S by scanning a bar code S through an RF interface S or by a user manually entering S text label characters into the mobile device . A query may then be sent S to the directory which responds S with any service information required for the device to use the printer or one of its services. Alternatively a printer or service may be selected from menu or list of printers and services for which all required service information is stored on the mobile device . The service information need then only be retrieved from a store within the mobile device . Service information may also be available to the mobile device from a UDDI system.

In the example of the mobile device forwards a communication signal in the form of an E mail message S with or without attachments to the E mail address of the printer or a selected service. The E mail message may be sent to the printer or service address directly or through a host or intermediate system . As described above the E mail may be sent to the printer in the clear or encrypted. Encrypted E mails would then be decrypted by the E mail processor and sequencer module in the network interface and gateway component .

Emails received by the SMTP listener in the network interface and printer gateway are forwarded to the E mail processor and sequencer which will separate the E mail into its different components as described above and create multiple print jobs a print job with subcomponents if necessary for example one for the E mail message itself and one for each attachment to the E mail. The information associated with each print job or each print job subcomponent is passed to the rendering and conversion engine which renders and prints S each job or subcomponent on the printer . In this example the printed E mail message may also serve as a cover page or print job separator. However a distinct cover page or separator page including addressing subject and attachment information from the printed E mail may also be printed for a print E mail operation for example when the printed E mail has a different format than preferred cover or separator pages or perhaps where an E mail is relatively long spanning several pages. When the printing operation is completed the E mail processor may then create a status E mail message with the result of the operation and send the E mail message back to the mobile device . An error message may also be prepared and returned to the mobile device if an error occurred during processing of a print job.

An E mail to be printed on the printer may be composed on the mobile device by a user or may instead be and E mail that was received by the device. Where the device operates in conjunction with a redirection program operating at a host system such as the E mail may have been redirected to the mobile device from the host system . Regardless of the origin of the E mail message to be printed the E mail and any attachments may be sent to and printed on the printer as described above. In a device with a menu driven user interface for example an E mail function menu may include a Print function in addition to such traditional E mail functions as Send Save Forward and the like. Upon selection of the print function and either selection of a previously configured printer or service or configuration of a new printer or service an E mail and any associated attachments on the device may be forwarded to and printed on a printer with minimal time and effort on the part of the device user. It is also contemplated that a user of the mobile device may select one or more particular E mail message attachments to be printed. For example if an E mail message has more than one attachment a user may wish to print only one attachment with the E mail. A user may also wish to print only an attachment without the E mail message. In either of these cases a communication signal such as an E mail message for example sent to the printer may include an indication or identifiers of exactly what should be printed. The gateway or the printer would then process the communication signal accordingly.

E mail message attachments may also be forwarded to an information processor by the host system . In this case a signal may be sent from the mobile device to the host system in response to which the host system sends the attachment to the information processor such as the printer .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a mobile communication device and a printer are preferably enabled for different types of interaction. shows a flow diagram of mobile device operations associated with a printing process incorporating multiple printing functions. When a print process is invoked on a mobile device at step S a check is performed at step S to determined whether or not a printer or service has been selected and identified i.e. whether or not the device has all the service information necessary to print information on a selected printer.

If any information such as the unique identifier for the printer or service an address for the printer or service or any further service information required for a mobile device controlled printing operation has not yet been obtained by the mobile device then the printer or service identifier may first be captured at step S via one of the interfaces described above. If the mobile device requires still further information as determined at step S where the printer or service identifier is not a routing address for example the mobile device then queries the directory S to obtain the required information.

If the mobile device has obtained all service information required to carry out the print operation either before the print process begins or through steps S S and S print processing continues at step S. The mobile device determines if the information to be printed is resident on the mobile device and if so a communication signal including the information is sent to the printer S through an active interface or an IP URL or E mail address as shown in and described above. If the print operation is a print by reference operation however S then a communication signal including reference information to be used by the printer gateway to retrieve the content to be printed is sent to the printer S as described above in conjunction with . A print E mail operation S proceeds substantially as described above with reference to when the E mail to be printed is forwarded to the printer at step S. As described above an E mail or attachment may be forwarded to a printer or other information processor by a host system in response to a communication signal sent to the host system from a mobile device. The printing process then ends at step S.

Although not explicitly shown in when information to be printed is sent to the printer or service the device may then await a response indicating the status or successful completion of a print operation. If no response is received within a predetermined time or the response instead indicates that the printing process could not be completed then error processing such as a printing retry operation possibly using a different information transfer mechanism a different service or a different printer for example may be executed.

Printer operations in response to transmissions from a mobile device should be apparent from the foregoing description. If the information to be printed is in a message or signal received by the printer then the information is rendered converted and printed. For a print by reference command the information to be printed is first retrieved and then rendered converted and printed.

Information processing control has been described in detail above in the context of an illustrative example of a printer. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the operation of other information processors will be similar to printer operations although the actual information processing operations may be different for other types of information processors. For example a display device will process and render information in a format suitable for display on a screen or other output interface. An information processor may also be a fax machine which would convert information received from a mobile communication device into a fax compatible format and send a fax to a destination specified by the device.

Other types of information processors will preferably be configured to perform control operations and provide some sort of return information to a device. For example a device may receive E mail attachments or files that it may be unable to process on its own. One or more information processors may be provided with appropriate rendering and conversion engines to effectively translate such attachments or files into formats that can be processed by the device. The translation result would then preferably be returned to the device.

Information processors may also be implemented to provide for remote control functions using a mobile communication device. A control file may be prepared at or received on a mobile communication device and then forwarded to an information processor which interfaces with a controlled system. If the control file is sent to the information processor as an E mail attachment for example then an E mail processor in the information processor preferably separates the attachment from the email message. If necessary the control file may be compiled or otherwise converted into an appropriate preferably executable format if necessary and executed by the information processor. The operation of the controlled system may thereby be started stopped or otherwise changed in accordance with instructions in the executable control file. Such an information processor may then return a confirmation message to the device to inform the device user of the status of the control operation. Similarly new control points or operating parameters may be forwarded to such an information processor and suitably rendered and converted into a control system input format if necessary. Other such configuring and provisioning of remote equipment may also be implemented in conjunction with information processors.

Menus or function lists for a device with menu driven user interface would preferably be expanded to include additional supported functions associated with information processors. As those skilled in the art will appreciate different devices may be differently enabled and thus may have different menus. When information processors or services are configured on a device by storing the required information for a processor in a data store on the device then submenus for each function are preferably automatically expanded to include the configured processors and services such that the initial steps of identifier capture and possibly directory querying can be avoided.

Having described in detail several preferred embodiments of the present invention including preferred methods of operation it is to be understood that this operation could be carried out with different elements and steps. These preferred embodiments are presented only by way of example and are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention.

