---

title: Microfluidic device for the assembly and transport of microparticles
abstract: A microfluidic device comprising independently addressable arrays of interdigitated electrodes can be used to assembly and transport large-scale microparticle structures. The device and method uses collective phenomena in a negatively polarized suspension exposed to a high-gradient strong ac electric field to assemble the particles into predetermined locations and then transport them collectively to a work area for final assembly by sequentially energizing the electrode arrays.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07744737&OS=07744737&RS=07744737
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 07744737
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080211
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 952 023 filed Jul. 26 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to microfluidics and in particular to a microfluidic device and method for the assembly and transport of microparticles.

The assembly of microparticles into large scale structures is a proven and efficient method for the fabrication of structured materials with relevance to a wide variety of devices for photonic electronic magnetic and sensor applications. See M. Boncheva and G. M. Whitesides 30 736 2005 and G. M. Whitesides and B. Grzybowski 295 2418 2002 . In comparison with techniques that rely on the spontaneous self organization of particles into desired patterns the use of optical acoustic electric and magnetic fields to trap and transport the particles offers a significantly higher level of precision for the control of the particle positions. See B. A. Grzybowski et al. 2 241 2003 P. J. Burke Vol. 6 edited by H. S. Nalwa American Scientific Stevenson Ranch Calif. 2004 pp. 623 641 M. Riegelman et al. 128 6 2006 J. P. Hoogenboom et al. 80 4828 2002 W. D. Ristenpart et al. 90 128303 2003 and B. B. Yellen et al. 102 8860 2005 . A characteristic feature of these field based methods is that all of them utilize a force exerted by a strong field gradient on an individual particle to trap it in regions of minimum or maximum field strength. When such a trap is displaced the gradient force thereby generated causes an entrapped particle to follow the trap motion. Although precise these techniques are slow since they deliver particles to a work area one at a time. To speed up the process techniques recently reported in the literature involve the parallel transportation of particles by creating and simultaneously translating multiple field traps which however still contain a single particle. See P. Y. Chiou et al. 436 370 2005 T. P. Hunt et al. 85 6421 2004 I. R. Perch Nielsen et al. 13 2852 2005 and D. G. Grier 424 810 2003 .

Therefore a need remains for a device and method to collectively assemble and transport microparticles to enable formation of large scale structures.

The present invention is directed to a microfluidic device for assembling and transporting microparticles comprising a channel formed on a substrate for flow of a fluid therein the fluid comprising a negatively polarizable suspension of microparticles in a liquid at least two arrays of independently addressable electrodes disposed successively in the channel means for applying different ac voltages to the at least two arrays of independently addressable electrodes to generate a high gradient electric field within the channel thereby causing the microparticles to concentrate in regions of low field strength in the channel and means for moving the high gradient electric field within the channel by modifying the sequence of applying the ac voltages to the at least two arrays of independently addressable electrodes. The microfluidic device preferably comprises at least three arrays of independently addressable electrodes to enable directional control of the particle transport. The electrode arrays can comprise interdigitated electrodes. The electrodes can be substantially planar and substantially parallel. The height of the channel can be less than 100 microns.

The invention is further directed to a method for assembling and transporting microparticles comprising providing a microfluidic device for assembling and transporting microparticles applying different voltages to the at least two arrays of the microfluidic device thereby causing the microparticles to assemble in regions of low field strength in the channel and modifying the sequencing of the ac voltages applied to the at least two arrays thereby causing the microparticles to be transported to modified regions of low field strength in the channel.

The action of collective phenomena in the suspension of negatively polarized particles exposed to a sufficiently strong high gradient ac field enables the assembly of distinct particle structures which can then be transported by sequentially energizing and grounding microelectrodes. The device and method can be used to build large scale microparticle structures by forming unit blocks and then transporting them to specific locations for further assembly and or processing such as in situ polymerization of structures in a matrix.

Particles experience both an electrophoretic force and a dielectrophoretic force when exposed to a spatially nonuniform electric field. The electrophoretic force being the time average of the product of the particle charge and the field strength vanishes in an ac field of sufficiently high frequency. However the dielectrophoretic force being the product of the particle dipole moment and the gradient of the field strength remains effective in high frequency fields because the dielectrophoretic force averaged over the field oscillations gives a nonzero value. If a particle is negatively polarized relative to the liquid it will move toward a region of low field strength negative dielectrophoresis or nDEP . Therefore high gradient ac electric fields can be used to aggregate suspended particles. In particular interparticle electric and hydrodynamic interactions if sufficiently strong can cause a negatively polarized suspension of initially uniform concentration to undergo a separation into low and high concentrated phases and to form a distinct front between regions enriched with and depleted of particles. See D. J. Bennett et al. 83 4866 2003 and A. Kumar et al. 69 021402 2004 which are incorporated herein by reference.

The device of the present invention relies on these collective phenomena in a negatively polarized suspension subject to a high gradient ac electric field to assemble and transport microparticles. show side view schematic illustrations of a microfluidic device of the present invention. The microfluidic device comprises a channel formed on a substrate for flow of a fluid therein. The channel further comprises a top wall and side walls not shown . The fluid comprises microparticles that can be assembled and transported by the microfluidic device . For example the channel can be formed on a silicon substrate from a plurality of deposited and patterned layers of polycrystalline silicon and silicon nitride using surface micromachining processes. See Galambos et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 797 187 M. Okandan et al. 4560 133 2001 and J. J. Sniegowski and M. P. de Boer 30 299 2000 which are incorporated herein by reference. Alternatively other microfabrication processes and materials can be used to fabricate the microfluidic device as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The channel can typically have a lateral dimension of millimeters and a height of about 100 m or less since the DEP force decreases with distance from the electrodes. The channel comprises a plurality of electrodes for generating an electrical potential within the channel in response to ac voltages applied to the electrodes with the voltages generally being about 20 rms volts or less with frequencies typically between 0.5 to 30 MHz. The electrodes can be substantially planar substantially parallel oriented substantially perpendicular to the direction of fluid flow and spaced along the length of the channel . The electrodes can typically have widths of less than one micron to tens of microns and can spaced apart by similar distances. The electrodes can be formed from any electrically conductive material such as polycrystalline silicon a metal or a metal alloy or carbon. Electrical wiring can be formed through and underneath the substrate for electrical activation of the electrodes . The top wall of the channel can be a conducting or non conducting layer. The top wall can be grounded as shown energized with an applied voltage or can further comprise additional energized electrodes not shown to modify the ac field configuration within the channel .

As shown in the fluid can initially comprise a uniform suspension of neutrally buoyant microparticles in a liquid. As described by Bennett and Kumar when exposed to the spatially non uniform electric field generated by electrodes a particle suspended in a fluid in a channel will polarize and interact with the electric field generating a time averaged dielectrophoretic force F which is given by 

The DEP effect is frequency dependent with higher frequencies having more likelihood of providing a significant dielectrophoretic force. In the radio frequency range the relative polarizability of a particle immersed in a fluid is mainly influenced by the ratio of capacitances of the particle and the fluid so that a reasonable estimate of Re is given by 

As shown in multiparticle structures can be assembled in a negatively polarized suspension of initially uniform concentration by exposing the suspension to an ac field configuration. In the example shown an ac voltage can be applied to electrodes and electrodes can be grounded. This creates a region of low field strength in the channel above the grounded electrodes . The ac field configuration concentrates essentially all the particles into the focused low field regions that are separated from the particle free regions by sharp interfaces.

As shown in in order to transport these structures another ac field configuration can be created in which the arrangement of the energized and grounded electrodes is modified e.g. electrodes are energized and electrodes are grounded . Since the local suspension viscosity increases sharply with particle concentration the relative velocity of a particle within the concentrated suspension already assembled is small. Therefore the assembled suspension moves as a whole to a new low field strength region i.e. to above grounded electrodes provided that the magnitude of the driving electric and hydrodynamic forces is sufficiently small to prevent the sharp interfaces from disintegrating.

The electrodes can be arranged in a variety of configurations. show top view schematic illustrations of exemplary configurations. For example the electrode configuration can comprise an interdigitated electrode configuration. The exemplary interdigitated electrode configuration shown in comprises two arrays of interdigitated electrodes and that are independently addressable via electrical connections at the opposing forked ends of the interdigitated electrodes. In this configuration ac voltages V t and V t can be applied independently to each array of interdigitated electrodes and to energize successive finger electrodes and respectively. shows an alternative interdigitated electrode configuration comprising four arrays of interdigitated electrodes and . In this configuration each successive set of finger electrodes and are energized separately by ac voltages V t V t V t and V t applied to the interdigitated electrode arrays and respectively. The electrodes can also be shaped to redirect or focus the assembled particles so long as adjacent electrodes remain substantially parallel to enable particles to be assembled and transported. For example shows an electrode configuration that enables assembled particles to be redirected around a bend in a channel. shows an electrode configuration that enables particles be to focused or defocused depending on the transport direction. As will be apparent to those skilled in the art alternative electrode structures and electrode energizing configurations can be used to provide alternative assembly and transport characteristics.

To demonstrate the ability to assemble and then transport such particle structures experiments were performed in microfluidic devices mounted on a micromanipulator. A microscope was used to check the alignment of the top and bottom channel walls and to measure the channel height between them. A conducting and transparent indium titanium oxide ITO glass slide surface resistivity of 10 cm was used as the top wall the ITO coating was on the inner side of the slide . The suspensions were prepared by diluting with deionized water pH of 5.5 6.0 and conductivity of 0.55 S cm as measured using a dc conductivity meter a 10 by weight aqueous solution of latex beads particle diameter 3.1 particle density 1.05 g cm that were introduced into the channel using a microsyringe.

A manual multielectrode switch was used to connect simultaneously the desired sets of the microelectrodes to either a grounding connector or to the voltage output of a function generator. All the energized electrodes were supplied with the same voltage signal and were alternated with grounded electrodes in order to vary the field strength in the channel space. The operating frequencies used were in the megahertz range to suppress undesirable field effects such as electro osmosis electroconvection and electrolysis. The real part of the relative polarizability of the latex beads in water within this frequency range was Re 0.45. Therefore the suspensions were negatively polarized. The application of an ac voltage to the electrode arrays of the microfluidic channel caused the particles to accumulate in the low field regions located above the grounded electrodes and to assemble into distinct cylindrical columns. In order to transport the assembled cylinders the accumulated particles must be tightly bound within the low field region. This was achieved both by grounding the conducting channel top wall as well as by decreasing the height of the channel between the top and the bottom walls so that the field generated near the top wall was sufficiently strong to push the nearby particles toward the midplane of the channel. Under these conditions changing the order of energizing and grounding the electrodes caused the assembled cylinders to move to another location of the low field regions.

The first microfluidic device comprised two independently addressable interdigitated electrode arrays configured as shown in and i.e. an array comprising finger electrodes and another array comprising finger electrodes . The interdigitated arrays comprised a total of 100 gold finger electrodes. The width and the interelectrode spacing of the finger electrodes were both 20 m. The interdigitated arrays were alternately connected to a high voltage and to ground. are top view photographs of the time evolution of the particle distributions taken through the transparent ITO top wall of the microfluidic channel. The linear electrodes are oriented horizontally with the fluid flow from bottom to top in the photos. The channel height was about 100 m for the channel in and about 50 m for the channel in . As shown in the latex beads in a 1 v v suspension were initially uniformly distributed in the channel. As shown in the dielectrophoretic force created by connecting adjacent interdigitated electrode arrays to high voltage 5 Vand 1 MHz and to ground caused the latex beads to concentrate into distinct 20 v v cylindrically shaped columns seen as white lines in the photos located in the low field regions above the grounded electrodes. Alternating the energizing and grounding sequence of the two arrays caused the latex beads to travel simultaneously with an average velocity of 300 m s to adjacent low field regions created by the sequencing shown by the arrows in and . The transport time can be further reduced by increasing the electric field strength and sequencing speed. However control of the direction of the column motion was determined by the presence of some asymmetry in the fluid flow and therefore varied from experiment to experiment and sometimes within an ongoing experiment. But by slowly translating the chip up to 200 m s using the manipulator stage to generate a shear flow in the channel while maintaining the original energized sequence of the device electrodes it was possible to transport the columns in the desired direction as shown in and . However a faster motion of the device destabilized the columns as shown in

The second microfluidic device comprised four arrays of interdigitated electrodes as shown and i.e. array comprising finger electrodes array comprising finger electrodes array comprising finger electrodes and array comprising finger electrodes . This four array configuration enables directional control of the particle transport without fluid flow. As shown in the fluid can initially comprise a uniform suspension of neutrally buoyant microparticles in a liquid. As shown in multiparticle structures can be assembled in a negatively polarized suspension of initially uniform concentration by exposing the suspension to an ac field configuration. In the example shown an ac voltage is applied to electrodes and and electrodes are grounded. This creates a region of low field strength in the channel above the grounded electrodes . As shown in in order to transport these structures another ac field configuration is created in which the arrangement of the energized and grounded electrodes is modified e.g. electrodes and are energized and electrodes are grounded . Since electrodes remain energized the particles are forced to move in a controlled direction to the region of low field strength above the grounded electrodes . The transport can be continued by again modifying the ac field configuration by energizing electrodes and and grounding electrodes as shown in . As will be apparent the assembling particles can be transported in either direction by appropriate sequencing of energized and grounded electrodes. As will also be apparent at least three independently addressable electrode arrays are necessary to transport the assembled particles without the influence of fluid flow or other external force.

The second microfluidic device was fabricated using surface micromachining. This process uses conductive p doped polycrystalline silicon thin film electrodes on top of insulated silicon wafers. The microfluidic device comprised 24 finger electrodes the electrode width and interelectrode spacing were both 10 m arranged into four arrays of interdigitated arrays. This configuration enabled independently addressing of every four successive finger electrodes. The channel height was approximately 50 m. As shown in the columns could be transported in the desired direction without generating a shear flow by choosing an appropriate energizing sequence of the electrode arrays. Specifically as shown in the application of 7.5 Vand 1 MHz ac voltage to the first second and fourth electrode arrays and the grounding of third array caused the latex beads in an initially uniform 2 v v suspension to concentrate into distinct 20 v v columns located in the low field regions above the electrodes of grounded third array. As shown in by disconnecting the second and third arrays while maintaining the first and fourth arrays at their original voltage the voltages on the floating second and third arrays in this configuration were measured to be approximately 1 V caused the columns to move simultaneously with an average velocity of 140 m s to a region halfway between the electrodes of second and third arrays. Finally as shown in by grounding the second array and applying 7.5 Vto the third array while still maintaining the first and fourth arrays at their original voltage the columns were made to move over to the region above the electrodes of grounded second array with average velocity 140 m s. The columns were transported in the reverse direction i.e. from being located above the electrodes of the second array to above the electrodes of the third array by repeating the process just described but in the opposite direction. The overall process of column transport between the electrodes of these two arrays was repeated several times.

The present invention has been described as a microfluidic device for assembly and transport of microparticles. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

