---

title: Probe receiver device for recovering surface water vessels
abstract: A method and apparatus for securing a surface water vessel to a floating station. The surface water vessel may be an unmanned surface vehicle, and the floating station may be attached to a larger parent ship. According to the invention, the surface water vessel includes a forwardly projecting elongated probe and the floating station includes a receiver having a receiver opening for receiving the elongated probe therein. The elongated probe includes a spherical tip having a circumferential groove. The receiver includes movable spheres that are moved into engagement with the circumferential groove, thereby locking the probe within the receiver. This locking arrangement secures the surface water vessel to the floating station.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08020505&OS=08020505&RS=08020505
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08020505
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080303
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a method and apparatus for recovering a surface water vessel and in particular a probe and receiver arrangement for latching a surface water vessel to a floating station.

The recovery of smaller surface water vessels such as manned or unmanned surface water vessels USVs by larger parent ships is an emerging technology. Once recovered by the parent ship servicing operations may be performed. Typically the recovery of a smaller vessel is accomplished by driving the smaller vessel alongside a stationary parent ship and lifted by davit into the ship. Alternatively the smaller water vessel may be driven up a ramp into the larger ship.

Traditional methods of capturing smaller surface water vessels can cause damage to the hull of the smaller vessel. For example some USVs weigh about 20 000 lbs and are made from materials such as aluminum. A capturing method that for example requires the USV to be driven into a parent ship or be lifted and dropped onto the parent ship can cause damage to the aluminum hull resulting in expensive repairs. It is desired to have a method and apparatus that captures the smaller vessel in a controlled manner away from the parent ship. It is further desired to have a method and apparatus that draws the smaller vessel onto the parent ship in a controlled manner. It is also desired to capture a smaller surface water vessel away from the larger ship in order to perform servicing operations independent of the parent ship.

In one aspect the invention is a latching arrangement for securing a water vessel to a floating station. According to the invention the latching arrangement includes a cylindrical probe having a support end and a free end. The free end has a spherical tip with the spherical tip having a circumferential groove therein. In this aspect the latching arrangement includes a receiver. The receiver has a conical front having a cone shaped opening for receiving the cylindrical probe through the cone shaped opening. The receiver further includes a securing block attached to the conical front with the securing block having a spherical opening for receiving the spherical tip of the cylindrical probe. In this aspect the latching arrangement further includes a clamping arrangement attached to the securing block. The clamping arrangement has a plurality of movable holders that are movable into the circumferential groove of the cylindrical probe for securing the cylindrical probe in the securing block.

In another aspect the invention is a latching system for securing a water vessel. The latching system includes a water vessel having a bow and a stern. The latching system also includes an elongated probe having a first end attached to the bow of the water vessel and a second free end having a spherical tip. The spherical tip has a circumferential groove. The system includes a floating station with a floating station body having a receiver side. In this aspect the system includes a receiver attached to the receiver side of the floating station. The receiver has a conical front protruding from the receiver side of the floating station. The conical front has a cone shaped opening for receiving the elongated probe through the cone shaped opening. The system further includes a securing block attached to the conical front the securing block having a spherical opening for receiving the spherical tip of the elongated probe. A clamping arrangement attached to the securing block is also included. The clamping arrangement has a plurality of hydraulically activated displaceable spheres movable into the circumferential groove of the elongated probe for securing the elongated probe in the securing block.

In another aspect the invention is a method of servicing a water vessel. The method includes the providing of a floating station having a body with a receiver side. In this aspect the method includes the providing of a receiver attached to the receiver side of the floating station with the receiver having a receiver opening. The method further includes the providing of a water vessel with an elongated probe projecting forwardly from the bow of the water vessel and the directing the elongated probe of the water vessel into the receiver opening of the receiver. This is achieved by directing the water vessel towards the floating station. The method of servicing the water vessel further includes the detecting of when the probe is fully inserted into the receiver opening and upon detecting the full insertion of the probe in the receiver securely fastening the probe in the receiver.

The operation of the latching system in which a floating station captures a water vessel is as follows. As outlined above the surface water vessel may be an unmanned surface vessel and the floating station may have any desired shape such as for example rectangular oval oblong circular or irregular. As shown in the vessel having the forwardly projecting probe traveling in direction approaches the floating station . When the floating vessel comprises an inflated material damage to the vessel hull caused by contact between the bodies is minimized. As the vessel approaches the floating station the elongated probe contacts the conical front of the receiver . The flared portions and of the conical front smoothly direct the elongated probe towards the opening of the securing block.

As outlined above a first sensor is positioned on the spherical tip of the elongated probe and a second sensor is positioned on the spherical receiving surface . When the elongated probe is inserted in the receiver the plungers and of the first and second sensors respectively are depressed into respective surfaces. When the plungers and are depressed the respective sensors and transmit signals to a system controller . See . As shown in the sensor transmits signals directly to the system controller . The sensor transmits signals to a vessel controller which is located on the vessel . The vessel controller then transmits the signals to the system controller . A wireless transmission system such as an infrared system or the like may be used to transmit signals between the vessel controller and the system controller . When the controller receives the depressed signal from both sensor and sensor then the controller determines that the probe is fully inserted in the receiver . The requirement for the receipt of both signals by the controller safeguards against the inadvertent activation of one of the plungers. However in another embodiment of the invention the controller may be responsive to a depressed signal from only one of the first or second sensors.

After the controller determines that the probe is fully inserted the controller transmits a signal to initiate a hydraulic power unit of the hydraulic device . The hydraulic power unit then powers up the hydraulic cylinder which retracts and moves the eight connected tines via the plurality of connection arms and the circular connecting ring . Each tine pushes a corresponding sphere in a corresponding lateral channel so that each sphere engages the spherical tip of the probe . The spheres engage the spherical tip within the circumferential groove thereby wedging and locking the probe within the receiver . Because the probe is locked in the receiver the vessel is secured to floating station . As outlined above both the spherical tip and the receiver may be made of an age hardened stainless steel material such as 17 4 PH. This stainless steel material meets corrosion resistance and strength requirements associated with the latching of the water vessel to the floating station in open water conditions. Additionally the elongated shaft may be made of a polymer material which enhances the flexibility and operational capabilities of the device. However the elongated shaft may also be made from non polymer materials.

The floating station may be attached via a line or other known means to a parent ship. Once the vessel is secured by the floating station the vessel may be transported to the parent ship along with the floating station where servicing or other functions may take place. Alternatively servicing such as refueling or recharging of energy supplies may be performed on the vessel in the locked state without transporting back to the parent ship. For example the floating station may include a fuel supply for providing fuel to the water vessel . The floating station may also be equipped to provide a secure information transfer with the vessel .

Step is the providing of the receiver attached to the receiver side of the floating station . As illustrated in the receiver has a continuous opening that is commensurate with the shape of the elongated probe . Step is the providing of the elongated probe projecting forwardly from the bow of the water vessel. Step is the directing of the elongated probe of the water vessel into the receiver opening of the receiver by directing the water vessel in direction towards the floating station as shown in .

Step is the detecting when the probe is fully inserted into the receiver opening. As outlined above first and second sensors and are used to detect the full insertion of the probe . Step is the fastening of the probe in the receiver upon the detection of the full insertion of the probe in the receiver . As outlined above and as shown in the controller receives signals from the sensors and indicating that the probe is inserted. If the controller determines that the probe is fully inserted the controller activates the hydraulic device which pushes the spheres via tines into engagement with the circumferential groove in the spherical tip of the probe .

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

