---

title: Topology controlled discovery for next hop determination
abstract: In a particular embodiment of the present invention, a particular node in an ad hoc network is configured with a desirable number of neighbor nodes and equipped with a transmission power level hierarchy. The particular node may adjust a transmission power level to a different level in the transmission power level hierarchy, based on a number of responses received from neighbor nodes after the particular node broadcasts a request at current transmission power level. This adjustment process is repeated until the particular node acquires a desirable number of neighbor nodes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08180352&OS=08180352&RS=08180352
owner: Oracle America, Inc.
number: 08180352
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080312
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application entitled TOPOLOGY CONTROLLED DISCOVERY FOR NEXT HOP DETERMINATION No. 60 956 077 filed Aug. 15 2007. The entire contents of this provisional application are hereby incorporated by reference.

An ad hoc computing network comprises computing nodes that form a network topology amongst themselves on an ad hoc basis. Unlike traditional networks whose network topologies are planned provisioned or configured ad hoc networks typically must rely on self configuring abilities of their respective nodes to discover neighbors and form network topologies. Furthermore because a node in an ad hoc network is allowed to autonomously alter its link relationships with other nodes for example by moving about a network topology previously formed can undergo changes from time to time in a seemingly random manner.

Techniques to form topologies include exchanging among nodes in an ad hoc network radio signals that encode messages. For example a node may transmit a request message to solicit response messages from its neighbors. To ensure a response the node may transmit the request message at a sufficiently high transmission power level. Assuming one or more nodes receive the request message some of the one or more nodes may need additional information from their neighbors and thus may broadcast their own requests. To ensure responses from their neighbors those receiving nodes that broadcast their own request may have to do so at sufficiently high transmission power levels themselves.

Since nodes in an ad hoc network typically are mobile devices that carry limited size batteries as their energy sources these existing techniques have a serious disadvantage of draining precious battery powers of nodes if the nodes are frequently involved in broadcasting requests and replying to requests as would be expected in a relatively mobile ad hoc network.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention an intelligent broadcast logic is implemented by a particular node to determine an appropriate transmission power level for broadcasting its requests to neighbor nodes. In one embodiment the requests are topology discovery request messages such as Ad hoc On demand Distance Vector AODV route requests. In one embodiment when the particular node needs to discover its neighbor nodes for the purpose of establishing paths to various nodes in the ad hoc network the particular node broadcasts a request for response at a particular transmission power level. Generally speaking how many neighbor nodes can hear the request is determined by the request s signal intensity as determined by the particular transmission power level. A higher transmission power level generally leads to a higher number of other nodes that can hear the request. In turn a higher number of other nodes that can hear the request lead to a higher number of other nodes that actually respond to the request. Finally a higher number of other nodes that actually respond to the request lead to a higher number of neighbor nodes whose responses are actually received by the particular node. As used herein the term a neighbor node refers to a node that may be used by the particular node as a next hop for one or more routing paths.

Suppose that the particular node receives a number of responses say N responses. The responses received would indicate that at least N other nodes have received and responded to the request.

The particular node next determines whether N is within a desired range. As used herein the term a desired range refers to a range of numbers within which the particular node in an ad hoc network would like to have its number of neighbor nodes to fall. For example the desired range may be a range of 2 to 4 neighbor nodes.

In one particular embodiment desired ranges may be the same for all nodes in the ad hoc network. In other embodiments desired ranges may be different among nodes in the ad hoc network.

In one embodiment the desired range of responsive nodes for a requesting node such as the particular node is predetermined. The particular node may for example provide an interface for a user to provide input to indicate what the desired range should be and store the desired range indicated in a data storage device accessible to the particular node. In other embodiments the desired range may be programmatically determined by the particular node.

Furthermore in some embodiments while the particular node is in operation the desired range for the particular node may change from time to time.

In one embodiment the desired range may be programmatically changed by the particular node based on history information that the particular node keeps. In one embodiment the history information comprises data correlating a number of neighbor nodes at a given time with a transmission power level that is used at a given time by the particular node. For example based on the history information the particular node may determine that at a particular transmission power level the number of neighbor nodes comes within a particular range. This history information may be used by the particular node to establish appropriate values for the desired range.

In one embodiment if the history information indicates a first transmission power level corresponds to a first N that is lower than the desired range and if the history information indicates a second transmission power level which is one level higher than the first transmission power level corresponds to a second N that is higher than the desired range the particular node may programmatically expand the desired range to cover either the first N or the second N or both first and second N s. As used herein transmitting signals at the first transmission power level and the second transmission power level may occur in any temporal order.

In response to a determination that N is within the desired range the particular node may conclude that the particular transmission power level is an appropriate power level to use for future transmissions.

On the other hand in response to a determination that N is not within the desired range the particular node may determine whether to adjust the particular transmission power level to a new transmission power level. In the present example of a desired range being 2 to 4 neighbor nodes an out of range number for N for example may be zero i.e. no response from a neighbor node has been received. Under this circumstance the particular node may increase its transmission power level to a new higher transmission power level if possible. On the other hand if the out of range number for N for example is 10 the particular node may decrease its transmission power level to a new lower transmission power level if possible.

In one embodiment there are at least two transmission power levels that may be used by the particular node to broadcast its requests. The adjustments of transmission power levels previously mentioned may be done monotonically in one embodiment. The adjustment may also be done proportional to the difference between N and the desired range in one embodiment. These and other variations of adjusting power transmission level to a different level in a transmission power level hierarchy are within the scope of the present invention.

In one embodiment if N is not within the desired range the particular node may send a new topology discovery request message e.g. with a new sequence identifier . In other words this process as described may be repeated until a new N is within the desired range. When N is within the desired range the particular node has a number of neighbor nodes that comes within the desired range.

In one embodiment routing paths may be established as the number of neighbor nodes is being adjusted by varying transmission power levels. In another embodiment routing paths may be established after the number of neighbor nodes comes within the desired range. In yet another embodiment some routing paths may be established as the number of neighbor nodes is being adjusted by varying transmission power level while the other routing paths may be established as the number of neighbor nodes comes within the desired range.

In one embodiment one or more routing paths may be established by examining the contents of the responses received from the neighbor nodes. Relative to the one or more routing paths established the N number of neighbor nodes represents a set of next hop nodes to which the particular node may forward packets. In particular a neighbor node which sends a response containing a set of routing paths may be used as a next hop node relative to the set of routing paths to which the particular node may forward packets.

As one of nodes operating in the ad hoc network the particular node may receive a packet that is to be forwarded to a node in the ad hoc network say a destination node. Based on the one or more routing paths previously established the particular node may determine one or more possible paths to the destination node. Specifically each of the one or more possible paths has one of the N neighbor nodes as a next hop. The particular node may select a desired path from the one or more possible paths.

In some embodiments the particular node may identify based on the N number of responses received an M number of nodes reachable from the particular node. The particular node next determines whether the M number of nodes includes the destination node. In response to a determination that the M number of nodes does not include the destination node the particular node may programmatically determine new different values for the desired range. The process of sending request and responses may be repeated until a new N is within the desired range with the new values determined.

By carrying out the above methodology the particular node obtains a desirable number of neighbor nodes without transmitting unnecessarily high intensity signals. Accordingly power consumption by the nodes in the ad hoc network each of which nodes may be the particular node as described herein in its own right is reduced.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention the methodology disclosed herein is implemented by a particular node shown as node of in an ad hoc network. For purposes of the present invention the particular node may be any node in the ad hoc network and may be any type of node. Examples of the particular node may include but are not limited to a mobile computing device that uses wireless e.g. radio signals in communication or a stationary computing device in an ad hoc network that comprises nodes that may or my not be mobile. Other examples of the particular node may be a computing device that is stationary e.g. a device installed on a train platform with respect to one reference frame e.g. the train platform but mobile with respect to another reference frame e.g. a passing by train . To illustrate how such a particular node may operate in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention reference will be made to the sample ad hoc network shown in .

As shown in the ad hoc network comprises a particular node two possible destination nodes and nodes i and j of respectively and nodes through nodes of respectively . The nodes are nodes that may become neighbor nodes to the particular node when the particular node broadcasts its request at various transmission power levels. The particular node as a member of the ad hoc network may receive data packets from other nodes or some entities within the particular node . Some of these packets may specify the nodes i or j as destination nodes.

For illustration purposes the particular node has three different transmission power levels TPL TPL through of . TPL is the lowest transmission power level TPL is a higher transmission power level and TPL is a still higher transmission power level. Each TPL has its own signal coverage area as represented by one of three ovals in . In reality the size and the shape of a signal coverage area is not necessarily regular as an oval but may be affected by such environmental factors as topographic features of the site where the particular node and its surrounding nodes are located and by signal processing capabilities of the surrounding nodes. Generally speaking the higher the transmission power level the larger the signal coverage area. As illustrated when the particular node transmits its request at a transmission power level PTL the particular node only receives a response from the node . When the particular node transmits its request at a higher transmission power level PTL the particular node receives responses from the nodes and in addition to the node . When the particular node transmits its request at a still higher transmission power level PTL the particular node receives responses from the nodes through .

In an embodiment the particular node determines an appropriate transmission power level for broadcasting requests such that the number of responses received from neighbor nodes comes within a desired range. In one embodiment the desired range may be between 2 and 4 neighbor nodes. In another embodiment the desired range may be between 1 and 2 neighbor nodes. Still other ranges are possible in various embodiments of the present invention. In one particular embodiment desired ranges may be the same for all nodes in the ad hoc network. For example as shown in the nodes through i and j each may all have the same desired range for their respective numbers of neighbor nodes.

In other embodiments desired ranges may be different among nodes in the ad hoc network. For example a first node may be on a far edge of the ad hoc network and may only sporadically send data or receive data from other nodes. The desired range for the first node may be any number of neighbor nodes as long as the number is at least one neighbor node. On the other hand for a second node that frequently receives and forwards data packets to other nodes the desired range for the second node may be at least two neighbor nodes so that even if all links or paths are broken through one of the two neighbor nodes other links or paths going through the other of the two nodes may be used by the second node to send e.g. forward or receive packets.

In one embodiment the desired range of neighbor nodes for the particular node is predetermined or preconfigured. For example before the particular node is placed in service or at the time when the particular node is booted the desired range is set prior to sending out any request for responses. In one embodiment the particular node may provide an interface for a user to configure the desired range and store the desired range in a data storage device accessible to the particular node.

In some embodiments even after the desired range is predetermined the desired range may be later changed by the particular node. Thus in these embodiments the desired range for the particular node may change from time to time. In one embodiment the desired range may be programmatically changed by the particular node based on history information kept by the particular node. In one embodiment the history information correlates a number of neighbor nodes at a given time with a transmission power level that is used at a given time by the particular node. For example the history information may be used to determine that at a particular transmission power level the number of responsive nodes comes within a particular range. In one embodiment the desired range may be programmatically determined as the particular range determined or some portion thereof.

In one embodiment if the history information indicates a first transmission power level corresponds to a first N where N is the number of responding neighbor nodes that is lower than the desired range and if the history information indicates a second transmission power level which is one level higher than the first transmission power level corresponds to a second N that is higher than the desired range the particular node may programmatically expand the desired range to cover either the first N or the second N or both first and second N s. Conversely if the history information indicates a first transmission power level corresponds to a first N that is higher than the desired range and if the history information indicates a second transmission power level which is one level lower than the first transmission power level corresponds to a second N that is lower than the desired range the particular node may programmatically expand the desired range to cover either the first N or the second N or both first and second N s.

In one embodiment one or more routing paths to various nodes such as the nodes i and j of in the ad hoc network may be established as the number of neighbors is being adjusted by varying transmission power levels. In another embodiment the one or more routing paths may be established after the number of neighbor nodes comes within the desired range. In yet another embodiment some of the one or more routing paths may be established as the number of neighbor nodes is being adjusted by varying transmission power levels while the other of the one or more routing paths may be established as the number of neighbor nodes comes within the desired range.

In one embodiment the one or more routing paths to other nodes in the ad hoc network may be established by examining the contents of the responses received from the responsive neighbor nodes. In one embodiment the request that the particular node sends is a topology discovery request message such as an Ad hoc On demand Distance Vector AODV route requests. In this embodiment responses if any from neighbor nodes of the particular node are AODV route replies that may contain information to establish the one or more routing paths to other nodes in the ad hoc network .

Relative to the one or more routing paths to other nodes in the ad hoc network the N neighbor nodes represents a set of next hop nodes to which the particular node may forward packets. For example a neighbor node which sends a response reply containing a set of routing paths may be a next hop node relative to the set of routing paths to which the particular node may forward packets.

In one embodiment as a node operating in the ad hoc network the particular node may receive a packet that is to be forwarded to a destination node in the ad hoc network say node i or j. Based on the one or more routing paths established the particular node i.e. node may determine one or more possible paths to the destination node. In one embodiment each of the one or more possible paths has one of the N neighbor nodes as a next hop. The particular node may select a desired path from the one or more possible paths.

For example suppose that the destination node for a packet to be forwarded by the particular node is node i . Assuming that the particular node acquires its neighbor nodes at a transmission power level PTL . Then node through are neighbor nodes. Through these neighbor nodes there are at least two possible routing paths as shown in leading to the node i. The first path of the at least two possible routing paths comprises two links and . The second path comprises two links and . The particular node may select the first path as a desired path to the node i while keeping the second path as a backup to be used when the first path breaks down. In some embodiments the particular node may collect information on quality of service QoS data respecting all the possible routing paths and select the desired path by comparing quality of service QoS among all possible paths.

Suppose that the particular node has a number of neighbor nodes that is within a desired range. In some embodiments the desired range may still be programmatically changed depending on whether there is a routing path to a particular destination node with the current neighbor node configuration. In one embodiment based on the N number of responses received an M number of nodes reachable from the particular node may be determined. Based on the M number of nodes reachable from the particular node the particular node may determine whether the M number of nodes provides at least one routing path to the destination node.

For example referring to the particular node may need to establish a routing path to a destination node such as the node j. If the particular node currently broadcasts its request for responses from neighbor nodes at the transmission power level PTL the particular node may only receive a response from one node i.e. the node but not from other nodes. Suppose that the initial value for the desired range of neighbor nodes is 1 to 2 neighbor nodes. Then as far as the number of neighbor nodes is concerned the current transmission power level is adequate because one neighbor node comes within the desired range. However the desired range may still be changed because the current neighbor node configuration does not provide a routing path to the destination node node j.

Thus in response to a determination that the current number of neighbor nodes does not provide a routing path the destination node the desired range may be changed from the current values to new different values. As a result the process of locating a desirable number of neighbor nodes may be repeated for the new different values. In the present example the next values which the particular node may change the desired range to may be 2 to 4 neighbor nodes.

To acquire the desired number of neighbor nodes the particular node may send a new request with new sequence identifier in one embodiment at a new transmission power level. This process is repeated until for example a routing path to node j is found with a particular set of neighbor nodes. In the present example suppose that the particular node now transmits a new request at the transmission power level PTL . Assuming the desired range is presently changed to 2 to 4 neighbor nodes as previously indicated then an acquisition of the nodes and as neighbor nodes would satisfy the desired range requirement. However since none of the nodes and provides a routing path to the destination node node j the desired range would still have to be re set.

This process continues until a routing path to the destination node is found to the destination node.

The ad hoc network here has been described as comprising a particular node five potential neighbor nodes and two possible destination nodes. It should be noted that this is for illustrative purposes only. For purposes of the present invention other nodes and other combination of potential neighbor nodes or possible destination nodes can also appear in the ad hoc network. Furthermore as stated before any node in the ad hoc network may be the particular node that implements an embodiment of the present invention. Thus all variations of nodes and number of nodes are within the scope of the present invention.

The transmission power levels here has been described as comprising three levels TPL through . It should be noted that this is for illustrative purposes only. Other numbers of transmission power levels can be used. Furthermore differences in signal intensity between two neighboring transmission power levels may be constant in one embodiment. Thus in that embodiment the signal intensity for level n may be linearly proportional to n. In another embodiment signal intensities may be exponentially scaled. Thus in that embodiment the signal intensity for level n may for example be proportional to a constant to the power of n. In yet another embodiment signal intensities may vary in different manners in the transmission power level hierarchy. For purposes of the present invention these and other variations of transmission power levels are within the scope of the present invention.

The discussion here has been described with occasional references to AODV. It should be noted that this is for illustrative purposes only. For purposes of the present invention other protocols of forming an ad hoc network can be used. For example Dynamic Source Routing DSR may be used in forming the ad hoc network without loss of generality of the present invention. Thus use of various ad hoc network protocols in conjunction with the present invention is within the scope of the present invention.

With reference to after a desired range say 2 to 4 neighbor nodes is configured for the particular node to acquire the particular node broadcasts a request for response at a particular transmission power level say TPL of at step of . In one embodiment the particular node starts from the lowest level in the transmission power level hierarchy.

At step the particular node receives a number of responses say N responses. The responses received would indicate that at least N neighbor nodes have received and responded to the request. As illustrated in at the current transmission power level i.e. TPL the particular node would receive only one response from node .

Next at step the particular node determines whether N is within a desired range. In the present example since the desired range specifies a number of neighbor nodes from 2 to 4 and since N is one the number of nodes acquired does not come within the desired range.

In response to a determination that N is within the desired range the particular node may conclude that the particular transmission power level is an appropriate power level to use for future transmissions at step of . On the other hand in response to a determination that N is not within the desired range the particular node may determine whether to adjust the particular transmission power level to a new transmission power level at step of . In the present example since the number of nodes is smaller than the lower bound of the desired range i.e. 2 the particular node may attempt to increase its transmission power level to a new higher transmission power level. In some embodiments adjustments of transmission power level may b controlled by software application programming interfaces API at the application level implemented by the particular node. On the other hand if the out of range number for N for example is a 10 the particular node may attempt to decrease its transmission power level to a new lower transmission power level.

As noted the adjustments of transmission power levels previously mentioned may be done gradually in one particular embodiment. That is if the transmission power level is to be decreased the transmission power level is decreased to one level down if possible correspondingly if the transmission power level is to be increased the transmission power level is increased to the next level up if possible. Other known methods of traversing a hierarchy in the art may also be used to adjust to a new different transmission power level. For example the amount of adjustment in the signal intensity may be done proportional to the difference between N and the desired range in another embodiment. These and other variations of adjusting power transmission level to a higher or lower level are within the scope of the present invention.

In any event if N is not within the desired range the particular node may adjust the transmission power level in one embodiment. In such an embodiment the particular node may send a new topology discovery request message e.g. with a new sequence identifier . This process as described above may be repeated until a new N is within the desired range. When N is within the desired range the particular node has acquired a desirable number of neighbor nodes.

In some embodiments even though N is not within the desired range the particular node may determine not to adjust the particular transmission power level as indicated by step of . For example the particular node may determine whether N is below the desired range and whether the particular transmission power level is the highest of available transmission power levels. In response to a determination that N is below the desired range and that the particular transmission power level is the highest of available transmission level the particular node may leave the particular transmission power level unchanged. Similarly the particular node may determine whether N is above the desired range and whether the particular transmission power level is the lowest of available transmission power levels. In response to a determination that N is above the desired range and that the particular transmission power level is the lowest of available transmission level the particular node may leave the particular transmission power level unchanged.

In one embodiment the logic and operation described herein takes the form of a set of instructions that are executed by one or more processors. is a block diagram of a computer system upon which an embodiment of the logic and operation described herein may be executed. Computer system includes a bus for facilitating information exchange and one or more processors coupled with bus for processing information. Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by processor . Computer system may further include a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

In computer system bus may be any mechanism and or medium that enables information signals data etc. to be exchanged between the various components. For example bus may be a set of conductors that carries electrical signals. Bus may also be a wireless medium e.g. air that carries wireless signals between one or more of the components. Bus may further be a network connection that connects one or more of the components. Any mechanism and or medium that enables information signals data etc. to be exchanged between the various components may be used as bus .

Bus may also be a combination of these mechanisms media. For example processor may communicate with storage device wirelessly. In such a case the bus from the standpoint of processor and storage device would be a wireless medium such as air. Further processor may communicate with ROM capacitively. Further processor may communicate with main memory via a network connection. In this case the bus would be the network connection. Further processor may communicate with display via a set of conductors. In this instance the bus would be the set of conductors. Thus depending upon how the various components communicate with each other bus may take on different forms. Bus as shown in functionally represents all of the mechanisms and or media that enable information signals data etc. to be exchanged between the various components.

The invention is related to the use of computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another machine readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The term machine readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operation in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using computer system various machine readable media are involved for example in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Common forms of machine readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD or any other optical storage medium punchcards papertape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of machine readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

At this point it should be noted that although the invention has been described with reference to a specific embodiment it should not be construed to be so limited. Various modifications may be made by those of ordinary skill in the art with the benefit of this disclosure without departing from the spirit of the invention. Thus the invention should not be limited by the specific embodiments used to illustrate it but only by the scope of the issued claims and the equivalents thereof.

