---

title: Engineered management system particularly suited for maintenance and repair (M and R) management of structure such as pavement
abstract: An automated user-implemented method for optimizing cost, schedule and performance of maintenance and rehabilitation (M&R) on manmade structure, such as pavements. The method utilizes a database containing information on the condition of the manmade structure, the information on condition further including a condition index; applies one or more algorithms to data in the database to yield schedule and budget for M&R of the manmade structure; correlates the type of M&R and schedule for performing the M&R with alternative budgets that a user may enter into the software supporting the method and outputs and displays work plans associated to each of the alternative budgets for use by managers in planning future M&R work and predicting performance thereof by evaluating past work on the manmade structure. The system may be implemented by a user on the internet as well as on individual personal computers. Specific implementations include PAVER™ and microPAVER™ software.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08155989&OS=08155989&RS=08155989
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08155989
owner_city: Washingtin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081009
---
Under 35 U.S.C. 119 e 1 this application claims the benefit of prior co pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 999 233 Engineered Management System Particularly Suited for Operation and Maintenance O M Management Of Structure Such As Pavement by Shahin et al. filed Oct. 17 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.

Under paragraph 1 a of Executive Order 10096 the conditions under which this invention was made entitle the Government of the United States as represented by the Secretary of the Army to an undivided interest therein on any patent granted thereon by the United States. This and related patents are available for licensing to qualified licensees. Please contact Bea Shahin at 217 373 7234.

Airfield and roadway pavements are deteriorating faster than they are being repaired. In the past pavements were maintained but not managed and little regard was given either to life cycle costing or to priority as compared to other requirements. Letting pavements deteriorate without preventive maintenance is very costly and results in an increased backlog and eventually a loss of assets. As pavement infrastructure has proliferated and aged a more systematic approach to determining maintenance and rehabilitation M R alternatively repair needs and priorities became necessary. Optimum timing of repairs results in improved pavement condition and considerable cost savings over the life of the system. If M R is performed during the early stages of deterioration i.e. before the sharp decline in pavement condition over 50 of lifecycle repair costs are saved. In addition to cost reduction long periods of closure to traffic and detours can be avoided.

PAVER consisting of a desktop system called MicroPAVER and a Web based system called WebPAVER is a successful engineered management system EMS for pavements. PAVER was developed by the US Army Corps of Engineers Engineering Research and Development Center ERDC Construction Engineering Research Laboratory CERL . PAVER aids pavement M R managers in deciding when and where to apply resources for pavement M R. PAVER is used to 

Recent improvements to PAVER aid M R managers in modeling pavement condition and permitting adjustments related directly to budget availability and optimization of available resources down to the project level.

In select embodiments of the present invention the computer based Inventory Work History is based on a prior art hierarchical structure composed of networks branches and pavement sections with user specified pavement sections being the smallest unit identified for management. This structure allows users to easily organize inventory while providing appropriate fields and levels for storing data. Additional features such as Copy and Move simplify the process of re defining existing pavement sections and applying work information to multiple pavement sections at once.

Refer to . For Condition Assessment select embodiments of the present invention may use the prior art Pavement Condition Index PCI as a standard. Further the American Society for Testing and Materials International ASTM Intl. has adopted the PCI as a standard for assessment of roads D 6433 03 and airfields D 5340 04 . The PCI is derived using data from inspections and assessments as to the Type Quantity and Severity of distresses in a pre specified basic pavement section in turn rolled up into assessments of branches and then finally to networks of pavements.

As available in the prior art the PCI provides both a numerical and a qualitative estimate color coded in one embodiment but not shown in of pavement condition on a scale from 0 to 100 using terms from failed to good as qualitative terms representing numerical ranges of the PCI . In addition to the PCI select embodiments of the present invention allow pavement M R managers to use and create other condition indices including those based on the principles of the PCI . Qualitative ranges for the PCI may be customized and used for reporting analysis results in accordance with user requirements. Manuals existing in the prior art for roads and airfields show defect type severity level definitions and guidelines for the measuring criteria used by inspectors.

Select embodiments of the present invention also employ a prior art interface for importing inspection data from automated collection resources such as those that may be affixed to a vehicle traveling over the target pavement section s . Select embodiments of the present invention provide users a prior art interface for recording the results of an inspection and an online user s guide for selecting the type of distress and assigning a severity thereto thereby facilitating the assessment of all pavement distresses on each pavement section a typical prior art computer page screen of which is shown in .

Refer to a typical screen print available in the prior art for summarizing inspection results as well as providing definitions including photos of sample pavement distresses defects . For example the screen of the MicroPAVER Users Guide shows distress defect type severity level definitions and guidelines for measuring criteria as well as photo examples typical of the various types of distresses encountered in pavements. The screen also provides areas for inputting requests such as inspection date and description of noted distresses . Thus for pavements there exists both an interface for accessing the results of an inspection and a guide suitable for explaining and characterizing types of pavement distress and quantifying severity.

From the prior art a pavement family is defined as a group of pavement sections with similar deterioration characteristics. Shahin M. Y. 2Edition Springer Science Business Media Inc. ISBN 0 387 23464 0 2005. For example a user may define a pavement family based on several factors including use rank surface type zone pavement section category last construction date LCD the PCI and the like. A user may define as many families as required for accurate condition prediction. Data availability may impose a limitation on the number of discrete families that are defined.

Refer to showing a typical pavement family deterioration curve from the prior art plotting the PCI versus Age with a Critical PCI range of 55 70 indicated by the hatched area . A Critical PCI is the value of PCI at which the rate of PCI loss noticeably increases with time i.e. the slope of the deterioration curve steepens suddenly. Another way of saying this is that the Critical PCI is the value of PCI for which the cost of applying localized preventive maintenance increases at a significantly greater rate at a PCI beyond that PCI. The first point at which the curve begins to rapidly change slope after a moderate aging period is shown at . Thus the point could be considered the Critical PCI if one were to use a single value as opposed to a range of values for the Critical PCI. From the prior art the following procedure is used to formally establish the Critical PCI for a pavement section 

Again refer to . From the prior art the Condition Analysis Work Planning framework feature allows users to view the condition of an entire network of manmade structure such as a pavement network or any specified subset of a network. This feature captures past conditions including those between inspections that may be based on interpolated values. This feature then enables reporting of projected conditions based on these prediction models. As available from the prior art outputs from the Condition Analysis and Work Planning framework may be viewed on color coded Geographic Information System GIS maps as shown in in grey scale with layer lists that may be selected via user commands some of which are shown for illustration purposes only on the tool bar .

As provided in the prior art regarding pavement M R types are grouped into four categories listed in priority order for accomplishing in a timely manner Localized Safety Stop Gap Localized Preventive Global Preventive and Major M R.

Localized Safety M R includes the localized distress repair needed to maintain structure such as pavement in a safe condition.

Localized Preventive M R is defined as distress maintenance activities performed with the primary objective of slowing the rate of deterioration. For pavement these activities include crack sealing patching and the like.

Global Preventive M R includes activities applied to a basic managed element such as an entire pavement section with the primary objective of slowing the rate of deterioration. For pavement these M R activities are primarily for asphalt surfaced pavements e.g. surface treatments such as fog and slurry seals.

Major M R includes activities applied to a basic managed element such as an entire pavement section to correct or improve existing structural or functional requirements and specifically includes reconstruction and structural overlays. After completing a Major M R activity the PCI is re set to 100.

A prior art Work Plan tool facilitated automated planning scheduling and budgeting as well as analysis of alternative pavement M R activities. A resultant M R Work plan combined basic inventory data with inspection data maintenance policies maintenance costs and predictions of condition such as may be associated with M R of pavement. Factors used in determining a user s required M R include integration of local M R management practices such as pavement M R practices.

As shown in prior art work planning has enabled users to determine how much funding is required to address alternative objectives such as maintaining a current index such as a PCI or eliminating backlog. In this example condition history was documented to establish the PCI v. Fiscal Year Age curve . As is apparent the PCI has fallen from 70 in Year 01 to about 60 in Year 05. Options are considered at Year 05. For this example the very best condition maintenance is that shown at curve for which 1.9M yr is allocated to M R. As a result of allocating this much to the budget the M R backlog is eliminated by Year 09 and the pavement condition improved to a PCI of about 85 in Year 09. The next best condition maintenance alternative shown in curve maintains an almost level condition i.e. maintains the PCI at about 65 until Year 09. This results in a Year 09 PCI that is just slightly better than the starting PCI at Year 05. The cost of M R for this alternative is 800K yr. The alternative shown at curve shows the Year 09 PCI just below that at which it began in Year 05. This is achieved by maintaining M R funding at 500K yr the same level as spent in the Year 05. Finally a stop gap alternative is shown at curve . This amount of M R allows the pavement to degrade at the same rate as before Year 05 by fixing only what requires fixing to safely operate.

As provided in the prior art results of a manual budget analysis in analyzing a Work Plan output include recommending an M R category for each basic element such as a pavement section for each planning year. Considering economy of scale it is unlikely that a project will be generated for each basic element. Instead basic elements such as pavement sections are grouped to formulate projects that reduce unit cost and minimize interruption. Also when formulating projects work is specified in terms of M R type e.g. 3 inch overlay for a pavement rather than by M R category e.g. major M R . Each project may be described by project name and pavement sections included in the project M R types to be performed assigning each a work date and cost per unit area altering work items for individual pavement sections if different from the rest of the sections to be included in a project and the like.

Based on the concept that it is more economical to maintain pavements above rather than below a critical PCI a Critical PCI procedure for Work Planning of pavement M R was developed in the prior art by applying results from a dynamic programming network optimization analysis and life cycle cost analyses from many projects. As considered in Work Planning the procedure assigns an appropriate M R category to individual pavement sections as a function of the PCI of the pavement section and its Critical PCI prioritizes work determines budget consequence establishes budget requirements and the like.

Disciplined employment of a Critical PCI procedure by users results in maintenance of all pavement sections above the Critical PCI value thus improving M R management. By keeping pavement sections above the Critical PCI emphasis is placed on preventive M R i.e. Localized Preventive and Global Preventive M R. When pavements reach the Critical PCI they should receive Major M R. However in many cases Major M R can be performed only as soon as funds are made available.

Refer to a prior art graphical depiction of the value of localized preventive M R. As recognized in the prior art the credit benefit T from applying Localized Preventive M R can be documented. The application of Localized Preventive M R is not likely to start until several years i.e. at x after the last construction or Major M R date. That is it is at the xyear normally when Localized Preventive M R events such as crack filling and patching may be required. To credit the improvement in performance of the pavement section one has to specify the expected total increase in life T. The specified increase can be assigned based on the maintenance organization s distress maintenance policy and the type use and rank of the pavement section itself. The annual increase in life is calculated by dividing T by the number of years n during which the Localized Preventive M R is applied. As shown for curve there is no annual increase during the early years when no Localized Preventive M R is applied but the effect on later years may be significant as shown in curve . This data may be used as input to algorithms used in select embodiments of the present invention for establishing alternative budgets inspection schedules M R Work Plans and the like.

As provided in the prior art for multi year Work Planning a pavement section may receive different or repeated M R events based on condition rate of deterioration length of the Period called out in the Work Plan available budget and the like. A Work Planning tool may account for a limited budget i.e. the most realistic scenario. A user may prioritize work based on categories of work pavement use relative value of the PCI and the like. For example Localized Safety work is given a higher priority than Localized Preventive work while a PCI near the Critical PCI merits a higher priority than a PCI of a higher value. Chapter 10 Shahin 2005 . Applying Global Preventive M R or Localized Preventive M R is likely to increase the life of the pavement section and increase the PCI. Applying Localized Safety M R is not likely to increase the life of the pavement section or even stabilize the PCI thus the common term stop gap is used to describe its effect.

As provided in the prior art assigning an appropriate M R category is a function of whether a PCI of the pavement section is above or below the Critical PCI. If a PCI is above the Critical PCI Localized Preventive M R or Global Preventive M R may be applied to the individual pavement section. Generally Major M R is applied if the pavement section is structurally deficient. Typically if a PCI is below the Critical PCI either Localized Safety M R or Major M R is applied many times dependent on funding availability and no Preventive M R Localized or Global is applied. A more detailed description of the assignment process is presented below with examples of how it is implemented.

Refer to a graph of cost unit area versus PCI as presented in the prior art. The straight line curve is an approximation of what is a most likely cost as represented by the dotted curved line . Major M R above Critical PCI has higher priority than Major M R below Critical PCI in order to minimize expense before the rate of deterioration increases. In select embodiments of the present invention within each M R category a priority factor is assigned based on the combination of pavement use and rank i.e. a functional classification is assigned. Within each M R category associated with a priority factor there is likely to be more than one pavement section requiring M R. In these cases the PCI may be used to break ties. Priority is determined by three prior art tables that may be edited by the user.

The unit cost of Major M R above the Critical PCI is much less than that for Major M R below the Critical PCI. For example one may perform a 2 to 3 inch overlay on a pavement section that is rated above the critical PCI as compared to a cold mill and overlay done at a PCI below the Critical PCI or a reconstruction done at a very low PCI e.g. below 30. Typically Major M R on a pavement section rated above the Critical PCI is performed when there is a structural deficiency or heavier traffic is expected. Of course Localized Preventive M R may be provided as a simple overlay for a pavement section rated at a PCI above the upper part of the Critical PCI range.

Refer to depicting a prior art procedure for selecting the specific type of Global Preventive M R for asphalt pavements. Global Preventive M R is applied based on a specified interval between Global Preventive M R events. For example if polished aggregate is present or there is any bleeding in low L medium M or high H amounts an appropriate M R event may be an aggregate seal or thin overlay . However if the distress deficiency is L M or H block cracking L M or H weathering or raveling or L M H cracking then rejuvenation may be an appropriate Global M R event. If neither of the above distress categories are present then an appropriate Global Preventive M R event ent may be a simple fog seal .

Refer to for a flow chart describing prior art assignment of M R categories where PCI PCI Critical as picked off point on the unit cost PCI curve of the graph i.e. a case in which the PCI is marginal. The first step is to check on funding availability based on budget and major M R priorities. If funding is available Major M R is applied and the PCI re set to . If funds are not available Localized Safety stop gap M R is applied the PCI most likely remains the same and funding availability is checked in the following planning years. Again the cost of Localized Safety M R is determined based on the PCI vs. unit cost relationship curve . The unit cost at the current PCI of the individual pavement section is multiplied by the area of the pavement section to estimate current cost.

Refer to . From the prior art the Condition Prediction Modeling function identifies and groups pavements of similar construction that are subjected to similar traffic weather and other factors affecting pavement performance. Historical data on pavement condition are used to build family models such as the curve with upper and lower bounds that predict future condition of a group of pavements having similar attributes.

Management objectives are achieved when work is performed on time. Costs increase if scheduled Major M R for an element such as a pavement section is delayed. The amount of increase is a function of the PCI at the time major M R was scheduled but not done and the projected rate of deterioration of the pavement section. In the prior art the penalty for delaying major M R is calculated by 

The penalty cost is normalized as above by dividing it by the original cost C to determine the relative penalty regardless of the size of a pavement section. Shahin 2005 . This facilitates use of the penalty figure for prioritization. An example penalty cost calculation follows.

As can be seen from the prior art existing methods of exploring alternatives are fairly primitive and do not consider the effect of either the completion or delay of current projects on future work and do not allow a user to readily incorporate user defined projects. Thus a need exists for a better planning methodology.

As a consequence of ongoing R D efforts a number of improvements to select embodiments of the present invention i.e. to WebPAVER and MicroPAVER have been made enhancing relevance and usability. Some of these improvements include improvements to the Infrastructure Management Methodology IMM a generalized method for calculating alternative condition measures improvements to the Work Plan WP procedure and calculation of the Last Construction Date LCD .

Refer to . The backbone of select embodiments of the present invention is the Infrastructure Management Methodology IMM comprising seven steps each of which may be represented with a model Inventory and Work History Inspection Condition Assessment Condition Prediction Modeling Condition Analysis Work Planning Project Formulation and Project List .

In select embodiments of the present invention the methodology used with Inventory and Work History includes an inventory component for infrastructure such as pavements that tracks the elements of the infrastructure being managed for M R. The database populated with information from the inventory and work history is used in developing accurate estimates of deterioration rates for the infrastructure at various levels and in identifying logical families of distress types and deterioration rates as related to basic structural elements the latter employed for predicting performance scheduling inspections and planning and budgeting for M R of the infrastructure.

In select embodiments of the present invention the methodology used with Inspection includes techniques for inspecting pre specified structural inventory elements such as pavement sections and recording inspection results. This provides empirical data from which family distress time deterioration or distress traffic use curves are built and modified from which performance estimates can be interpolated for setting and modifying inspection schedules for estimating any unknown construction and major M R dates and the like.

In select embodiments of the present invention the methodology for Condition Assessment includes pre specified objective methods including prior art methods to combine inspection results into an assessment of condition of structure such as pavements.

In select embodiments of the present invention the methodology for Condition Prediction Modeling includes employing techniques including prior art techniques that combine historical assessment results with empirical models useful to predict future condition of structure such as pavements.

In select embodiments of the present invention the methodology for Condition Analysis and Work Planning includes techniques including prior art techniques for employing inspection data and condition prediction models to make maintenance recommendations and cost projections including alternatives based on budget limitations.

In select embodiments of the present invention the methodology for Project Formulation includes techniques to support M R managers users in formulating detailed project plans based on the results of condition analysis and work planning including the consideration of dynamic constraints imposed via various sources.

In select embodiments of the present invention the methodology for Project Lists provide a final product a summarized list of projects for use in managing resources to include the provision for providing multiple lists on alternatives as requested by individual users.

Refer to a Unified Modeling Language UML class diagram for a model employed with select embodiments of the present invention. The I prefix for the names in select blocks of indicates that block defines an interface that could be implemented in multiple ways. The concepts of Measure and Condition Measure are used to formulate a measurement of infrastructure state such as the Pavement Condition Index PCI for pavements. Although select embodiments of the present invention are based on a PCI embodiments include support for other indices of condition.

Select embodiments of the present invention use an original domain model to input multiple condition indices and to calculate and predict values for these indices. Select embodiments of the present invention employ the prior art concept of producing a condition index. A measure of a structure s integrity such as a pavement condition measure is a type of data that an evaluator such as an engineer might record about a basic element of infrastructure such as a section of pavement. A particular value of that type of data is represented as an instance of the IMeasuredValue interface . A condition measure made available by the IConditionMeasure interface is used as an indicator of condition and may include evaluations of a number roll up of distresses and distress types on a single evaluated inspected basic element such as a pavement section. Typically a numerical quantitative condition measure such as a PCI of a pavement section has a perfect 100 value when a structure is new and a failed value of zero i.e. the value when the structure has completely failed.

Another concept employed in select embodiments of the present invention is that of Family Type as made available by the IFamilyType interface . A Family Type curve e.g. PCI vs. time or PCI v. traffic may be plotted from measured and predicted data and assigned to a category of performance models. For example a common Family Type curve for pavements establishes a relationship between a PCI and the age of a pavement section for a particular type of pavement such as asphalt service road concrete runway and the like. A performance model of this Family Type for pavements predicts a PCI given the age of the pavement or conversely the age of the pavement given a PCI . The concept of Family Type is used in implementing prediction modeling. Of course a PCI may also be derived from actual measurements e.g. inspections as made available at the IMeasuredValue interface . A single value of PCI is recorded for an instance of the IMeasuredValue interface . The IMeasuredValue interface may represent either or both an actual or calculated PCI based on distress data. As generally used in select embodiments of the present invention a Family Type curve for pavement represents predicted values of PCI .

Refer to a UML class diagram depicting how select embodiments of the present invention extend the measures model of . Stored within the DistressType object are definitions used to formulate measures such as the PCI as may be composed from the Deduct Curves from the DeductCurve object and descriptions of calculation algorithms described in published documents and standards. Deduct Values computed from the Deduct Curve object and distress type severity and density produce a quantitative estimate of overall condition that have been established through research and discussion with infrastructure experts. For example a Deduct Value of zero indicates the distress has no impact on structural integrity or operational condition while a Deduct Value of 100 indicates an extremely serious fault impacting structural integrity. These standardized values are applied to specific structure types for which Deduct Curves have been established and used in determining a condition value index such as a PCI for pavement sections. Thus select embodiments of the present invention facilitate calculation of multiple distress based measures available from the DistressBasedMeasure object and composed from the distress types in the DistressType object . Select embodiments of the present invention treat the calculation of a condition measure such as the PCI for pavements as a special case of calculating implementing within the DistressBasedMeasure object which in turn realizes the IConditionMeasure interface . The calculation of a measure for a particular structural element such as a pavement section is made by applying the Deduct Curves for the measure to the particular distress types and their severities and quantities present.

In select embodiments of the present invention the DistressType object has either three or one DeductCurve objects associated with it. The DistressType object has three curves i.e. DeductCurve objects if the distress type has associated severity levels i.e. low medium or high. In select embodiments of the present invention an algorithm to calculate a DistressBasedMeasure is executed by a Calculate method not shown separately . The Calculate method iterates through the inspection samples and recorded distresses from a specific inspection. For each distress it accesses in the corresponding DistressType object it requests calculation of a Deduct Value. The DistressType object in turn queries the appropriate DeductCurve object for the Deduct Value. Once the DistressBasedMeasure object has a Deduct Value for each distress and employing the prior art PCI algorithm from ASTM Standards the DistressBasedMeasure object then determines the overall Deduct Value for each pavement inspection sample and rolls that into a resultant Deduct Value and calculates the PCI for a specific structural element such as a pavement section the most basic pavement inventory item managed using select embodiments of the present invention.

Select embodiments of the present invention provide various properties for the Deduct curves in the DeductCurve object and under different distress based measures in the DistressBasedMeasure object . Each DistressBasedMeasure object owns a unique collection of distress types composed from the DistressType object in turn containing Deduct curves available at the DeductCurve object . Because each Deduct curve at the DeductCurve object has properties that allow a curve to be scaled or shifted various distress based measures from the DistressBasedMeasure object may use adjusted Deduct curves as provided by the DeductCurve object for the same distresses. In principle a new condition measure e.g. a PCI SCI or FOD realized at the IConditionMeasure interface could define a completely different Deduct curve at the DeductCurve object for some distresses.

Refer to a screen used in select embodiments of the present invention for M R management of pavements. A user may select any combination of distresses and associated severities for specific types Distress Category of pavement. The menu of distresses and severities provided on screens such as represented by as manipulated via user alternatives may be developed from stress conditions of those types and severities that are recorded on specific pavement inspection samples not shown separately by inspectors. In select embodiments of the present invention this screen allows users to include user selected distresses and severities in a custom user defined condition index.

In select embodiments of the present invention the screen represented in may use the design described by to create data in a User Defined Distress Measure condition index object and a corresponding Distress Type in the DistressType object and Deduct Curve in the DeductCurve object all via user input. That is a user may select individual distresses and severities and ignore others in the menu. In select embodiments of the present invention this corresponds to setting the multiplier property of the DeductCurve object to 0 or 1. Other options include user defined multipliers.

For some specific purposes a particular distress may be more important i.e. have a larger Deduct Value than it does for other purposes. One example is the Foreign Object Damage FOD measure developed by the Construction Engineering Research Lab CERL of the Engineer Research and Development Center of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the US Air Force. The FOD index measures how likely the pavement is to produce material that could damage a jet engine. One of the distresses used by the PCI calculation method for concrete pavements is called Joint Seal Damage not shown separately . Joint Seal Damage occurs when sealant between concrete slabs breaks down. The Deduct Value for Joint Seal Damage for a PCI is based on a damaged joint indicating that water can enter and erode the foundation and incompressible material can get lodged in the joint causing cracking or other damage. However for a FOD measure Joint Seal Damage has a much higher Deduct Value because when the seal is damaged the availability of loose material produces a higher likelihood of aircraft engine damage.

In select embodiments of the present invention the ability to define custom distress indices is enhanced by the presence of CopyFrom buttons under User Alternatives used to copy from a completed screen such as that of . This allows users such as pavement managers to start with a comprehensive standardized definition of a PCI and tailor it to specific needs. Select embodiments of the present invention permit users to define new standard distress indices. This approach was used in formulating two new standard pavement condition indices used by the US Air Force SCI Structural Condition Index and FOD Foreign Object Damage .

Refer to . is a flow chart describing the process steps and outputs for the Project Formulation process as may be implemented in select embodiments of the present invention. In select embodiments of the present invention individual projects are defined prior to executing a Work Plan that includes both planning for the work and budgeting of the work. The Work Plan or M R Plan is a tool for planning scheduling budgeting and analyzing alternative M R activities. The Work Plan uses basic inventory data combined with inspection information maintenance policies maintenance costs predictions of future pavement condition and the like. All factors used in determining an appropriate M R alternative may be configured by a user to reflect local management practices.

Select embodiments of the present invention facilitate determining consequences of alternative budgets on a structure s condition maintenance as well as on M R programs and projects that remain unfunded. Further the Work Plan may be used to determine the budget needed to meet specific M R scenarios describing a particular planning objective or purpose. This enables M R managers to develop a variety of funding alternatives to support decision making.

In select embodiments of the present invention once new projects have been formulated a budget consequence analysis is re executed and the resulting annual budget variations analyzed in terms of annual deficit and surplus. The new output from the execution of the Work Plan is then analyzed prior to the formulation of new projects. The process is iterated as necessary as continued interactive formulation of projects until acceptance and finalization of the new projects in a plan . From the plan a project list is made and fed back in the IMM as input to Inventory Work History .

In select embodiments of the present invention the work planning and budgeting algorithm i.e. the Critical PCI Method is revised to operate with and to be subservient to projects that a user has input to the system. This is accomplished using a concept of minimum work intervals and a modified budgeting process as explained in discussions about below. In conventional engineered management systems the existing algorithm for managing global work is such that once a specific Global Preventive M R type is selected e.g. as described by that Global Preventive M R type is repeated for the same structural element such as a pavement section at the interval specified by local policy. In select embodiments of the present invention this is modified so that only a Type 1 Global Preventive M R event is applied after the structural element receives Major M R. Incorporation of this modification is shown in as explained below.

Refer to a flowchart used with select embodiments of the present invention for determining the type of work needed for pavement sections with a PCI above the Critical PCI. The first step is to check for load related distresses of the pavement section. If the pavement is structurally deficient then Major M R should be applied. The existing PCI as picked off the PCI vs. Unit Cost relationship curve at the point in the graph is used to establish if there is any structural deficiency. Table 1 provides a list of distresses that have been used in a prior art Work Plan to identify pavement sections that are rated above the Critical PCI but are structurally deficient.

Conventionally the cost of Major M R is estimated based on the curve i.e. the lower the PCI the greater the unit cost thus one would prefer to perform M R when the PCI is reasonable as shown at the point . The unit cost at the current PCI of the pavement section is multiplied by the area of the pavement section to determine the cost. If the pavement section is structurally deficient the next step is to check on funds availability based on current available budget and Major M R priorities. If funds are available Major M R is applied and the PCI value is re set to 100. If funds are not available Localized Preventive M R is applied for the current planning year and funds availability is checked in the following planning years. Of course if the pavement structure is not structurally deficient Localized Preventive M R or Global Preventive M R is applied in accordance with local maintenance policy. Estimates of the cost of Localized Preventive M R are based on the PCI vs. Unit Cost relationship curve . The unit cost of M R at the current PCI of the pavement section is multiplied by the area of the pavement section to estimate cost of Localized Preventive M R for that pavement section.

Refer to a block diagram describing an algorithm that may be used in select embodiments of the present invention for determining a Global Preventive M R type to be applied in those cases where the pavement condition is such that the PCI is greater than PCI Critical . In this version the first question asked is if a Major M R has been conducted on the pavement section since its last inspection. If yes recommended action is to apply Localized Preventive M R and follow up at the appropriate time with a Type 1 Global Preventive M R . If no then the distresses are evaluated to determine if they exceed pre specified criteria. If no then apply Localized Preventive M R and check the Global Distress Criteria . If needed for upgrading performance e.g. controlling skid apply a Type 3 Global Preventive M R . If needed for addressing deficiencies presented by climate changes apply a Type 2 Global Preventive M R . If other lesser criteria are relevant apply a Type 1 Global Preventive M R . If yes ask if a Major M R can be funded in the budget . If no apply Localized Preventive M R . If yes apply Major M R and re set the PCI to 100 .

Conventional Work Planning tools support network level analysis. A network level analysis identifies only the category of work needed e.g. local surface treatments major repair and the specific pavement sections and years needing M R. Further network level analysis also provides only an approximate cost for work based on Cost by Condition curves not shown separately . Project level analysis in contrast identifies specific types of work and associated costs in sufficient detail to support development of contract documents. Select embodiments of the present invention include project level planning tools.

In select embodiments of the present invention pavement M R management includes collecting data for calculating variation in a PCI over time. Such data normally include multiple inspection results for a single pavement section. If properties of pavement sections never changed inspection data such as inspection date sample data surface category size and the like could be stored separately from inventory and a user could just refer to properties when needed. However pavement section properties do change. For example definitions of pavement sections are sometimes changed. Therefore as provided in select embodiments of the present invention it is necessary to store the properties existing at the time of inspection with inspection data. Thus if there is a change in those parameters identifying a pavement section e.g. it is enlarged or resurfaced original data from which the PCI was calculated are available.

Conventionally this requirement is implemented by adding fields to the database table where inspections are stored. Previously when an inspection was created the software stored the added fields e.g. surface category use type area slab size number of slabs and the like in the inspection record. This simple method worked but had two shortcomings. First only the data necessary for PCI calculation is stored thus if at some future time a user wished to relate the PCI to some other property of inventory that data were not available. Second it is inefficient since properties of pavement sections change slowly thus multiple inspection records often contain the same set of cached values unnecessarily increasing the size of the database.

Select embodiments of the present invention employ a more efficient approach. For example for pavements inventory data are divided among pavement networks pavement branches and pavement sections. Select embodiments of the present invention have separate database tables for each of these three categories levels and inventory properties are entered once and shared among these tables. For example the pavement Branch table may store use e.g. roadway airfield parking lot and the like while surface type e.g. concrete asphalt may be stored in the pavement Section table. That is duplication of records is avoided.

Refer to showing a general structure employed by select embodiments of the present invention. The odd numbered boxes and arrows between them on the left are those that conventional engineered management systems may use. The even numbered boxes on the right and arrows to from and between them represent the structure and relationships added for use in select embodiments of the present invention to store manipulate and access historical properties of inventory. The Network Branch and Section History tables have the same set of properties as their respective Network Branch and Section tables. When an inspection is created it is pointed at an appropriate record in the Section History table . Since all inventory properties are stored in the History tables it is possible to efficiently address any future need for relationships between inspections and inventory properties.

Refer to a UML sequence diagram of a history creation algorithm for efficient creation of the inventory history records of as employed in select embodiments of the present invention. Conventionally the data used to populate the structure and create the relationships shown in in the left boxes a simple method would be entered every time a new inspection is created resulting in inefficiency. Instead select embodiments of the present invention adopt a lazy creation approach. The boxes at the top of are objects. The dashed lines below the objects are their life lines displaying the relative lifetime duration of the existence of each object in memory. Time starts at the top and actions are time sequenced in order to the bottom of . The solid arrows represent procedure calls or messages between the boxes objects . To understand the history creation algorithm used in select embodiments of the present invention note that the three levels of inventory network branch and section are the same with respect to inventory history. Each inventory item has a collection of history items associated with it regardless of whether that item is a network a branch or a section. Thus a recursive approach may be used to both create and obtain history records. Further realize that the consumer of the history record does not need to know if a new record is being created. An external user simply asks for the current history item and may refer to it as such without requiring the knowledge of when it was actually created.

Referring again to the algorithm may be employed as follows. In select embodiments of the present invention in step or procedure call a Request object asks for the current history item for an Inventory Item object . The Inventory Item object in turn requests and retrieves the latest by date history record from its History Collection object . These steps implicitly require that each history record be time stamped. The latest History Item object is then asked if the existing records match the current inventory properties. If the properties of the History Item object do not match this information is fed back a new History Item object is created setting its properties to the current inventory properties. Its parent is requested and retrieved from the Parent Inventory Item object . The retrieval of the parent employs the same algorithm recursively.

If the current History Item object does match the properties of the current Inventory Item object the algorithm checks if the parent of the History Item object has changed. The algorithm asks recursively for the current History Item object of the parent then compares the identifier of the parent to its own parent identifier to see if the identifier has changed. If the identifier of the parent matches i.e. nothing has changed the existing history record may be used by the Request object . If the identifier of the parent is different a new history record is created in the History Collection object . The History Collection tells the new History Item to copy its properties from Inventory Item then tells the History Item object to set its parent . Next the History Item object requests and retrieves the current history item from the Parent Inventory Item object . It establishes the current history item from the Parent Inventory Item in the History Item object by attaching the current history item thereto. Finally the new history term is returned from the Inventory Item object to the Request object .

Refer to for the way an algorithm is employed across three layers of an inventory structure as may be used in select embodiments of the present invention. In this example assume section and branch properties have changed since any updating of history records but no network properties have changed.

In select embodiments of the present invention a sequence begins for example when a newly created Inspection object queries the corresponding Section object for a current history record. The Section object queries the corresponding Section History Collection object for the latest history record which is delivered to the Section object . The Section object then queries the corresponding Section History Item object if the current history records suffice. The Section History Item object determines that some property of the identified pavement section has changed and returns a No to the pavement Section object . The pavement Section object then queries the corresponding Section History Collection object to create a new history item and to copy the current pavement section properties into the Section History Item object then to attach the parent of the pavement section prior to delivery to the Section History Item object . The request for the current history is directed from the Section History Item object to the corresponding Branch object of the pavement section as a recursive call within the algorithm of . The Branch object repeats the process of asking for the latest history from the Branch History Collection object querying the Branch History Item object to return the latest history to the Branch object . The Branch object then queries the Branch History Item object if the current records suffice. As with the Section object the latest Branch History Item object determines if the properties match and for example that some property has changed and returns an answer No to the Branch object . As a result the Branch object asks the corresponding Branch History Collection object to create a new history record to copy properties to the Branch History Item object and to attach the corresponding parent to the record in the corresponding Branch History Item object . The Attach Parent request results in a third recursive call this time to the corresponding Network object . The Network object requests a latest history record from the Network History Collection object which delivers the latest history to the Network object . The Network object asks the Network History Item object if the current records suffice. As an example in this case the Network History Item object checked for matching properties and the records did match and since there is nothing above the Network object the recursion ends with the positive check being delivered to the Network object . The existing record is returned from the Network History Item object via the Network object and attached to the new Branch History Item object record the return ending the second level of recursion. Finally the record for updating the Section History Item object is obtained from the new Branch object record and fed back from the pavement Section object to the Inspection object where the procedure began.

Thus in select embodiments of the present invention this algorithm addresses the second shortfall of the prior art simple method by guaranteeing that new history records are created only when some inventory property has changed. Note that the algorithm also insures via recursive calls that if a higher level of the inventory hierarchy changes a new record will be created at the lower level.

The WebPAVER and MicroPAVER programs used in select embodiments of the present invention use an accurate estimate of the Last Construction Date LCD for each pavement section to predict performance maintenance requirements costs schedules and the like for establishing schedules descriptive definitions and guidance for the Inspection methodology . For example WebPAVER and MicroPAVER update the LCD for each pavement section to the most recent major M R event. In select embodiments of the present invention an electronic Work History form is the interface for users to enter work history data for each pavement section. For use in select embodiments of the present invention a method for estimating an unknown LCD is presented below.

Refer to depicting graphically a solution for an LCD Back Calculation interpolation as used with select embodiments of the present invention to predict Last Construction Date LCD such as for pavement i.e. the last date where the PCI was or should have been set to 100. In this example the solution employs data representing the PCI plotted against age in years relative to the actual inspections that quantify the PCI . For pavement sections where the LCD is unknown the LCD is back calculated assuming either a typical linear deterioration rate or an assigned Family Curve. The interpolation starts from the first inspection A of the inspections following an uncertain LCD. Assuming a linear relationship between the first inspection A and the last year in which the PCI was 100 and establishing the slope of deterioration from more recent inspections the last year at which the PCI was 100 can be estimated. Alternately knowing the Family Curve for the pavement type one can interpolate the period of time that the pavement remained at a PCI of 100 and back calculate the LCD. In the case shown in the LCD is shown at to be mid 87. In select embodiments of the present invention if the interpolated LCD is older than a possible but uncertain probable LCD or more recent than the uncertain LCD and within a user specified tolerance for uncertainty the back calculated LCD may be disregarded.

In select embodiments of the present invention prior art Condition Prediction Modeling is included in the Infrastructure Management Methodology IMM such as may be used for managing M R of pavements. Chapter 7 Shahin 2005 . Select embodiments of the present invention employ a variety of algorithms for Condition Prediction Modeling as applied to a particular condition index e.g. the PCI the FOD SCI and the like. In select embodiments of the present invention the same user interface screen may be used to create and display models for various Family Types as well as various condition prediction modeling algorithms.

Refer to a UML class diagram describing how select embodiments of the present invention may support multiple condition prediction engines and multiple Family Types with a single user interface screen the FamilyModelingScreen . Note that in select embodiments of the present invention the model represented in extends that of the model represented in particularly with respect to the concept of Family Type. The model of supports the notion of a family of manmade structures such as pavements that behave similarly with respect to condition. Nunez M. N. and M. Y. Shahin Pavement Condition Data Analysis and Modeling Transportation Research Board 1986. Shahin M. Y. and J. A. Walther Pavement Maintenance Management for Roads and Streets Using the PAVER System Technical Report No. M90 05 U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory 1990.

In select embodiments of the present invention each family has an associated model implementing the IModel interface in turn associated with an object implemented in the IModelingEngine interface . If the modeling engine has parameters that a user establishes IModel interface is constructed using an IModelingEngineParameters interface that allows a user to edit parameters by aggregation of the parameters at the FamilyModelingScreen object . The FamilyModelingScreen object is independent of the modeling engine used or of the kind of model produced. The EditableFamily class is derived from the Family class and adds a collection of IDataFilter objects . The IDataFilter objects are used to filter the data used by the IModelingEngine to build the IModel . In select embodiments of the present invention the FamilyModelingScreen object and associated classes operate as follows.

In select embodiments of the present invention a user may select the Family Type by employing the IFamilyType interface to build prediction models. A Family Type available at the IFamilyType interface references i.e. is aggregated from two measures one for the abscissa IConditionMeasure interface of the model and one for the ordinate IMeasure interface . In select embodiments of the present invention it is common that the abscissa is time e.g. Age and the ordinate is the value of a condition measure e.g. PCI . Many alternatives such as other condition measures e.g. SCI and other abscissa measures e.g. Traffic are possible.

In select embodiments of the present invention when a user selects a Family Type at the IFamily Type interface the collection of families stored in the Family object of that type becomes available. In select embodiments of the present invention a user may choose to create a new family or edit an existing family using the EditableFamily object . When a particular family is chosen it is graphed similar to on the EditableFamily object .

In select embodiments of the present invention a user may select data points to be used to build or rebuild a model using the radio button Select Method not shown separately on the EditableFamily object . Structures that support building family models may be formulated without knowing beforehand which Family Type condition measure measure pair or even which modeling technique is being used. The user is able to select data points used to build a model however the particular means to select data points is unimportant. For example in PAVER the means is a screen termed the EMS Query Tool. In select embodiments of the present invention a user may modify the data filters using the IDataFilter interface associated with a new or existing family from the Family object . Data filters as the name suggests filter out inappropriate or undesirable items e.g. outliers from available data.

Select embodiments of the present invention support implementation of the IModelingEngine interface that employs a constrained least squares algorithm for the production of polynomials. In select embodiments of the present invention the IModelingEngine interface is realized via a parameter screen not shown separately but implementing the IModelingEngineParameters interface that allows a user to adjust constraints and the order of the polynomial. In select embodiments of the present invention other modeling engines may be used to realize the modeling interfaces and .

In select embodiments of the present invention when the data filters and engine parameters are available for processing an EditableFamilyRecalculate method is enabled at the EditableFamily interface . Once initiated this method calls a selected IModelingEngineCreate Model at the IModelingEngine interface that creates a new instance implementing the IModel interface . This instance is attached composed to the current family at the Family object . Refer to a screen print that may be used in select embodiments of the present invention. In select embodiments of the present invention a user may view a description of the resulting custom model by pressing the radio button View Equation and Stats at the Display tab of the Family Modeling Screen .

Refer to a UML class diagram of the general structure of the Work Planner a complex subsystem used in select embodiments of the present invention. Work planning identifies the category type and timing of Required Work. Select embodiments of the present invention support various planning scenarios by quantifying project details budget timing and Delay Penalty for each.

In select embodiments of the present invention the structure of the Work Plan facilitates various capabilities. At the top level the IWorkPlanner interface is composed from allows access to scenarios made available via the IPlanningScenario interface projects made available via the IProject interface and information about basic structural elements such as pavement sections made available from the IPlanSection interface . The three interfaces IPlanningScenario interface the IProject interface and the IPlanSection interface are further related to the IWorkItem interface through the Section2WorkItem class . Projects are defined by a user. In select embodiments of the present invention data describing pre specified basic structural elements such as pavement sections are stored in inventory databases and obtained therefrom when planning starts.

In select embodiments of the present invention the basic element of planning is the scenario. A scenario has a particular planning objective or purpose. For example select embodiments of the present invention employ a scenario termed No Work to represent the situation where no work is done at all regardless of inspection results or pavement condition. The No Work scenario is suited to condition assessments. Conversely a scenario termed All Work represents a situation in which all work is done as soon as it is needed. In select embodiments of the present invention a scenario may be initiated from a base scenario that provides a starting point aggregated to the IPlanningScenario interface . For example in select embodiments of the present invention a Budget scenario has a scenario of All Work as its base. In select embodiments of the present invention the Budget scenario is represented realistically as a limited budget i.e. costs must be accounted for in planning to a targeted amount of available funding.

In select embodiments of the present invention a scenario comprises a set of nominators provided via an IWorkNominator interface as well as plans for individual sections such as pavement sections provided via an IPlanSectionYear interface in addition to a possible base scenario . A particular nominator describes a specific type of work on a structure such as pavement work. For example a Major Work nominator describes Major M R that returns a pavement section to good as new un distressed condition i.e. the PCI is set to equal 100. Each nominator has criteria aggregated and made available via the INominationCriterion interface . In select embodiments of the present invention criteria also establish the required or relevant timing of the work nominated by a nominator made available via the IWorkNominator interface .

The nominators and associated criteria nominate work in an aggregation that is also associated with an annual plan made available via an INomination interface that is aggregated to an IPlanSectionYear interface. Each nomination belongs to a section year made available via the IPlanSectionYear interface . The IPlanSectionYear interface aggregates to the IPlanningScenario interface all of the work being done on a particular section such as a pavement section in a particular year. This section year and nomination structure is used to track the basic planning state. The detailed planning state is captured in work items made available via the IWorkItem interface associated as noted above with projects made available via the IProject interface and with sections made available via the IPlanSection interface and with scenarios made available via the IPlanningScenario interface .

Refer to . depicts how the basic time sequenced work plan structure operates during planning facilitated by select embodiments of the present invention. Planning is initiated by the Planner function made available via the IWorkPlanner interface that is normally triggered by a user. The Planner function queries the Scenario function made available via the IPlanningScenario interface to automatically develop the plan. A user specifies the plan start date and duration of the planning period e.g. a fiscal year.

In select embodiments of the present invention the Scenario object in turn queries the SectionYear object for each section such as a pavement section and iterates for each Section Year object that a user has inputted. The Scenario object then locates the appropriate IPlanSectionYear interface for that year and instructs the software to prepare a plan automatically. In select embodiments of the present invention the set of available sections such as pavement sections is specified as those accessible via the Planner function .

The SectionYear object first determines what the condition of the specified section is predicted to be at the requested date based on the stored condition state for each specified section such as a pavement section and the prediction family to which each specified section is assigned.

The SectionYear object in turn queries the Nominator object made available via the IWorkNominator interface and iterates through the set of nominators in the requests that the Nominator object nominates for each specifically identified section by year.

The Nominator object in turn queries the Criterion object made available via the INominationCriterion interface whether criteria are met for each of the identified sections for that planning year.

In select embodiments of the present invention the Criterion object returns a Criterion Met response as either true or false. The return must be true to continue with the description as shown in . That is if any return is false the nomination process stops for this nomination of the Nominator object for the specified section and year. If all criteria return true the Nominator object creates a nomination in the Nomination object via the INomination interface for the corresponding work type for each given section and year. In select embodiments of the present invention the estimated cost of the work not shown separately in is also computed at this step. In select embodiments of the present invention the nomination is returned to the SectionYear function by the Nominator function while also adding the nomination to the collection of nominations in the Nomination function .

In select embodiments of the present invention appropriate engineering logic is applied by the SectionYear object to determine whether any of the suggested nominations from the Nomination object should be ignored. An example of appropriate engineering logic is that if both Major M R and Localized Preventive M R are nominated only the Major M R will be asserted because doing major work removes the necessity for local work. In select embodiments of the present invention the SectionYear object then calls Assert on any remaining nominations clearing the way for further processing.

In select embodiments of the present invention each asserted nomination from the Nomination object creates a WorkItem object describing the type of work to be done. In select embodiments of the present invention each asserted nomination from the Nomination object also creates a section to work item in the Section2WorkItem object that establishes the relationship between the particular section the WorkItem object and the Scenario object .

Thus in select embodiments of the present invention the basic structure and the flow the structure supports is the Scenario object to the SectionYear object to the Nominator object to the Criterion object and then to the Nomination object . Further the nominations are evaluated to determine what work in the WorkItem object is needed and what section is nominated for the work item recommended in the Section2WorkItem object . This method is powerful and useful for a variety of planning situations.

Select embodiments of the present invention support three different planning tools Condition Analysis Work Planning and Inspection Schedule all not shown separately in . The Condition Analysis tool calculates and displays the condition of basic structural elements such as pavement sections over time. The Work Planning tool recommends maintenance and repair actions. The Inspection Schedule tool specifies criteria to optimize inspection schedules. A further advantage of select embodiments of the present invention is that embodiments may be used to implement not just support all three of these tools.

In select embodiments of the present invention the Condition Analysis tool may be initiated as a scenario by employing the Scenario object with no work nominators. This results in an output describing only the condition of each pavement section as predicted over time i.e. no work is scheduled. This provides an output of a simple condition analysis as discussed previously.

In select embodiments of the present invention the Work Planning tool may be applied to basic work planning by initiating the Scenario object with two sequential scenarios an All Work scenario that contains nominators for Major Global and Localized Preventive and Localized Safety Stop Gap M R work i.e. all of the work types recognized by select embodiments of the present invention and a Budget scenario that uses an All Work scenario as a base. An inspection schedule may be developed by employing a single nominator from the Nominator object nominating one work type i.e. inspections. A user may select the criteria attached to this nominator to yield an inspection schedule driven solely by meeting the criteria.

In select embodiments of the present invention a detailed optimization algorithm may employ a prioritization scheme facilitating the basic work planning mechanisms as described previously. A conventional algorithm for budget optimization may just sort recommended work in priority order marking items unfunded upon depletion of the budget. However this simple apppach may not satisfy management requirements. Note that accomplished work impacts the relevande of later planned work. For example if Major M R is accomplished for a pavement section in an early year Stop Gap Localized M R will not be needed on that pavement section at the same time as it would if Major M R had not been done. Conversely if Major M R is not done early Stop Gap Localized M R must be planned earlier than it would have if Major M R had been done. Further all high priority items may not be able to be funded in a given budget year. If the highest priority Major M R is greater than the total budget for a given year the Major M R preempts all lower priority work given that one considers only priority. Thus a top down algorithm does not address program changes induced by not funding an M R project. For example if Major M R is not funded in a planning year then Localized Stop Gap events must be scheduled. Further neither simple bottom up nor top down approaches address the practical situation. Therefore a better approach is to optimize the budget one year at a time.

To address this dilemma select embodiments of the present invention identify a category of Required Work that a user specifies at the start of a plan. Required Work is always funded within the method even if it causes a planner to exceed budget. Also in select embodiments of the present invention it is optional to charge Required Work against the budget.

In select embodiments of the present invention an M R Budget may be optimized and prioritized by project. In select embodiments of the present invention the prioritization scheme emphasizes budget optimization. This is achieved by giving the highest priority to preventive M R. The exception is Localized Safety Stop Gap M R that should be performed for the example of pavements only when the PCI is below the Critical PCI and there are no funds to perform. Major M R. Thus in select embodiments of the present invention the first factor considered in budget prioritization is the M R category. Historically the order in which M R categories are prioritized for pavement is Localized Safety Stop Gap Localized Preventive Global Preventive Major Above Critical PCI and Major Below Critical PCI.

In a situation where the available M R budget is unlimited there is no need for prioritization. In this unrealistic case M R spending is optimized by using the M R section assignment described above. When the M R budget is limited i.e. less than that needed to perform all optimum M R then optimization and prioritization are necessary to achieve maximum return on investment. Certain projects must be performed regardless of budget optimization. This may be due to functional requirements e.g. user cost mission objectives e.g. increase in traffic loading and in some cases political and social pressure.

Refer to depicting a flow chart for a budgeting algorithm used in select embodiments of the present invention by the Work Plan. The circled numbers identify the six sub loops of the main loop. The main loop may be allowed to iterate over each year of a multi year plan.

In select embodiments of the present invention the inputs in sub loop include a list of nominated work items for each basic structural element such as a pavement section and planning year as produced by the nomination algorithm of . The algorithm of associates a budget that specifies the funding available for nominated work items for each year.

In select embodiments of the present invention the main loop of the algorithm represented in iterates over the years specified in the plan starting with the first year. This loop encompasses all of the sub loops through as labeled in each of the blocks .

In select embodiments of the present invention For Each Plan Year PY in the Plan a Minimal Budget is computed . Based on the existence of Required Work and whether any Required Work is debited Yes the Available Budget for Major M R is computed. If the Required Work is debited Yes to the budget then the Available Budget is updated by subtracting the Set Cost of Required Work to Recalculate Available Budget . If the Required Work is not debited No to the Available Budget Recalculate Available Budget as existing Available Budget plus cost of the Required Work. If there is no Required Work the Recalculated Available Budget is calculated by simply subtracting Minimal Budget .

In select embodiments of the present invention Sub loop eliminates those items of Major Work whose cost is greater than the Re Calculated Available Budget . For Each Non Required Major Work Item a query is made as to whether its cost is greater than the Re Calculated Available Budget . If Yes then that Non Required Major Work item is Marked as unfunded and Sub loop iterates until all Non Required Major Work items for the planning year have been addressed at which time a Minimal Budget is set thereby initiating Sub loop .

After completing Sub loop iterations Sub loop is entered by setting a Minimal Budget then querying if there is Required Work available and if so if it is Debiting To The Budget . If Yes then the Set Minimal Budget is updated by adding the cost of the Required Work to the Set Minimal Budget . If No then a Budget Overage is calculated by subtracting the Set Minimal Budget from the Total Expenditure the total amount of all planned work . Sub loop then sets the Excess Items list to empty as a prelude to entering sub loop at No Excess Items .

In select embodiments of the present invention Sub loop calculates Budget Overage if any after all items of Major Work have been eliminated. Sub loop generates a list of candidate items of Major Work to be eliminated by moving considering those in order from low priority to high priority work items For Each Work Item on a nominated work list not shown separately . Queries are made to determine if a work item is an item of Major Work. If Yes then the cost to do either Local or Global Preventive M R for this planning year is retrieved and input to a Budget Overage calculation . If No then the algorithm sets the cost to do Local or Global Preventive M R as appropriate to zero and inputs the unaltered result to a Budget Overage calculation . A query is then made to determine if the Budget Overage is greater than zero. If yes then at least one more iteration of Sub loop is made. If no Sub loop terminates since sufficient low priority Un Required Work has been eliminated to meet budget.

In select embodiments of the present invention Sub loop addresses items previously unfunded that should now be considered since expensive high priority work items have been eliminated in prior sub loops. For Each Work Item in Excess Items passing from Sub loop query whether cost of the work is less than the Budget Overage . If Yes then that Work Item is Removed From the Excess Items list and the next excess item is called up and Sub loop is iterated until exhaustion of excess items. If No then For Each Work Item in Excess Items is passed to Sub loop .

In select embodiments of the present invention the 6and final sub loop eliminates the excess work items using the same method as initiated at as described below. That is it marks the excess work item as unfunded and re plans the M R for that basic structural element such as a pavement section for the current planning year iterating through all work items with excess items and iterating the entire main loop For Each Plan Year In The Plan prior to termination .

For select embodiments of the present invention capacity exists to mark items unfunded unaffordable and re plan the corresponding basic structural elements such as pavement sections as at . This ability follows from the structure presented in because the budget limiting scenario is separate from the work nominating scenario and because the work nominating scenario iterates first over basic structural elements such as pavement sections then over budget years. To deal with unfunded items a budget limiting scenario imposes a constraint on the particular type of work that should not be funded. A budget limiting scenario may then ask the work nominating scenario to re plan the given basic structural element such as a pavement section for the given year and subsequent years.

In select embodiments of the present invention the concept of a constraint on nominations may be employed. For example a constraint may assert that certain types of work are forbidden for certain basic structural elements such as pavement sections or in certain years or both. The constraints are checked between steps and of . Thus before nominating work the Nomination object and the IWorkNominator interface must insure not only that positive criteria are met but that there exist no criteria against the nomination i.e. applicable existing constraints. In select embodiments of the present invention other constraints include minimum intervals between Required and Planned Work as well as between different work types e.g. it does not make sense to do localized repair on a section that is receiving Major M R in that same year .

In select embodiments of the present invention these constraint criteria may be used for optimizing budgets. When a budgeting algorithm calculates that funds are not available for some M R for a basic structural element such as a pavement section in a particular year a constraint criterion is inserted to that effect. Then the same planning strategy is iterated as for the initial Work Plan. Thus new work is planned by including the impact of the added constraint. All changes in condition are propagated into later years altering the Work Plan for those later years.

Although the Delay Penalty equation of the prior art as described above is straightforward implementation of these calculations in practice may not be without complications when employing the design outlined by in particular employing constraints as described above. Thus using all of the capacity of select embodiments of the present invention provides an efficient and effective way to determine a Delay Penalty as may be seen by consideration of the procedure outlined in .

Refer to a flowchart used in implementing select embodiments of the present invention. The flowchart outlines an efficient algorithm for calculating a Delay Penalty. In select embodiments of the present invention the main loop of the algorithm iterates over the years specified in a user s plan starting with the first year. This loop encompasses both of the Sub loops and as labeled in each of the blocks . The algorithm is initiated by running the Work Planner to establish a Base Scenario then copying the Base Scenario . A first Sub loop is run starting with a Delay Scenario For Each Major Work Item in the Delay Scenario of Sub loop and iterating through all the Major Work items in the Delay Scenario of Sub loop .

For each of these Major Work items in Sub loop a Constraint Against Is Asserted each constraint prohibiting Major Work on the corresponding section for the delay period of Sub loop . Work is Re Planned for Sections on Which Work Occurs in Sub loop . This initiates scheduling of new Localized Preventive M R for each Major Work item originally scheduled but now included in the delay interval while also including a new schedule for the constrained Major M R at the end of the delay interval.

At the end of Sub loop a Revised Delay Scenario is available as input to Sub loop For Each Major Work Item in the Base Scenario . In Sub loop a Delay Penalty is calculated For Each Major Work Item In The Base Scenario by comparing the Base Scenario to the Delay Scenario for each Major Work item in the Base Scenario . After all Major Work items are addressed Sub loop is terminated with resultant Delay Penalty values for each Major Work item provided.

The algorithm represented in is efficient because it allows a user to Copy the Base Scenario rather than planning a new scenario. Further this algorithm does new planning only for basic structural elements such as pavement sections scheduled for Major M R. For these pre specified elements the algorithm requires minimal processing because it only Asserts a Constraint Against Major Work and then Re Plans any Section on Which Work Occurs over that constraint interval.

The budgeting process and algorithm detailed in optimizes work given a fixed budget. It is also useful to determine budget requirements during a specified period of time given Required Work. Common objectives include eliminating backlog of Major M R events maintaining current area weighted condition index such as a PCI attaining a desired area weighted condition index and the like.

Select embodiments of the present invention calculate budget requirements by iterating a budget consequence analysis and using a binary search e.g. to find the smallest budget that will accomplish a user s required objectives. A search considering possible annual budgets may be executed to determine a maximum for a search range by running an unlimited budget plan and using the largest single year expenditure of that plan as the upper limit.

Refer to depicting a general structure for performing budget requirements analysis as may be used with select embodiments of the present invention. The first interface is IPlanIteratively that has an implementation of IAmAnIterationGoal and an implementation of IAdjustIterationBudget . The IPlanIteratively interface is implemented by a class that controls the search for a budget that matches a user s requirements. The IAmAnIterationGoal interface is implemented by a class that corresponds to a management goal. The IAdjustIterationBudget interface is used by the IPlanIteratively interface to determine the budget to be tried on the next iteration. The ISupportIteration interface is invoked by the IPlanIteratively interface to do actual planning. An implementation of the IAmAnIterationGoal interface is used by the IPlanIteratively interface to make available for evaluation the results of planning and to determine the relationship between the Goal Result and the desired goal.

In select embodiments of the present invention the structure of supports a variety of different goals and planning approaches while delivering a Goal Result object budget that matches a user s goals. The structure of coupled with the operations of provides a unique yet general way to implement budget requirements analysis.

Refer to illustrating the operation of the structure of . An IPlanIteratively implementation queries the IAdjustIterationBudget interface to prepare for iteration. In turn the IAdjustIterationBudget implementation calls the ISupportIteration interface to plan work without restrictions i.e. with unlimited budgets. The IPlanIteratively implementation then queries the IAmAnIterationGoal interface to evaluate the results of the unlimited budget planning. If the work goal is not reached the iteration aborts because the work goal is not attainable even with an unlimited budget. If the work goal is reachable the IPlanIteratively implementation then queries the IAdjustIterationBudget interface whose implementation in turn queries the ISupportIteration interface to set an initial budget. After setting an initial budget the IAdjustIterationBudget implementation queries the ISupportIteration interface to iterate the plan using the budget set at . The IPlanIteratively implementation then queries the IAmAnIterationGoal interface to evaluate the results of this planning. If further iterations are desired e.g. the goal is not achieved the goal is achieved and it is possible to decrease cost and the like another iteration begins with a query from the IPlanIteratively implementation to the IAdjustIterationBudget interface . Otherwise iteration terminates.

Select embodiments of the present invention allow users to plan and budget projects based both on Required Work and Recommended Work both as specified by the user. Upon completion of work work history data are automatically updated In summary select embodiments of the present invention facilitate interactive project formulation as part of work planning and budget optimization. The penalty cost for Major Work may be determined down to the basic element such as a pavement section and to the project level.

The abstract of the disclosure is provided to comply with the rules requiring an abstract that will allow a searcher to quickly ascertain the subject matter of the technical disclosure of any patent issued from this disclosure. 37 CFR 1.72 b . Any advantages and benefits described may not apply to all embodiments of the invention.

While the invention has been described in terms of some of its embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modifications within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example although the system is described in specific examples for managing pavements it may be used for any type of construction and thus may be useful such diverse applications as railroads transcontinental pipelines marine structures educational campuses military installations and the like. Performance of these structures may be tracked maintenance scheduled and budgeted and computer modeling of virtual systems done using select embodiments of the present invention. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. Thus it is intended that all matter contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative rather than limiting and the invention should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

