---

title: Communication system and a mobile station, proxy location server and method of operation for use in the system
abstract: A communication system () comprises a plurality of mobile stations () each operable to communicate with other communication stations by a wireless link of a first kind, at least one location indicator () operable to detect by a wireless link of a second kind a location of at least one () of the mobile stations when the at least one mobile station is within a communication range of the location indicator, at least one proxy location server () operably coupled to at least one associated location indicator (), and a location server () operable to communicate with the at least one proxy location server to receive a notification of the location of the at least one mobile station () when detected to be within communication range of the associated location indicator ().
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08634847&OS=08634847&RS=08634847
owner: Motorola Solutions, Inc.
number: 08634847
owner_city: Schaumburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081208
---
This application is a National Stage filing under 35 USC 371 of co pending Patent Cooperation Treaty international application having Ser. No. PCT US08 85850 the PCT international application filed on Dec. 8 2008. This application claims priority to the PCT international application and to prior Great Britain GB national application having Serial No. 0724390.0 filed on Dec. 14 2007 the priority of which was also claimed in the PCT international application. Both the PCT international application and the GB national application are assigned to Motorola Inc.

This invention relates to a communication system particularly a mobile communication system and a mobile station a proxy location server and a method for use in the system.

In the field of wireless telecommunications it is known to equip communications devices with location determination hardware and software. Such hardware and software can either be integrated into the communications devices or provided as plug in modules. With the decrease in cost of location determination hardware provision of such hardware with communications devices is becoming more commonplace.

As communications devices comprising location determination hardware for example Global Positioning System GPS receivers become more commonplace so called location based services and applications are becoming increasingly popular. In this respect it can be desirable for a third party to poll a communications device for example a cellular communications handset with a location query. For example a parent may wish to know a location of a child at a particular instant in time an individual may want to know a location of a work colleague or an individual may want to locate a friend.

However at some locations for example at a soccer match or a rock concert a location query cannot be received or a response to the location query cannot be provided owing to a lack of network capacity. At other locations for example in a hospital or in an aeroplane use of wireless communications devices is simply not permitted. Likewise at yet other locations for example a cinema or theatre use of the wireless communications devices is undesirable. Where a response is not provided to the location query the uncertainty accompanying the lack of response frustrates a decision as to a course of action to take based upon the location of a communications device being targeted.

In some circumstances wireless communications devices are contactable but ignored by their users owing to location or circumstances of the user. In this respect some wireless communications devices have a vibrate alert setting or silent setting that can be selected by the user as an alternative to audible alerts provided by ring tones. In relation to Short Messaging Service SMS messages or texts some communications devices do not vibrate to signify receipt of an SMS message. When this happens knowing the circumstances of the user and or providing an emergency alert to the user in emergency situations is useful.

Whilst Home Location Registers HLRs and Visitor Location Registers VLRs used in cellular communication systems such as systems using Global Systems for Mobile communications GSM network protocols and Terrestrial Trunked Radio TETRA network protocols may be aware of current or last known locations of wireless communications devices such information is operationally and commercially sensitive. Release of this information to members of the public by network operators is therefore unlikely. Additionally no Application Programming Interface API is available for use by a software application to access the location information from the HLR and or VLR. Further the level of detail provided by the HLR and or VLR is limited to cell identities and so is of limited value particularly as no information is provided as to when an unreachable wireless communications device might become reachable again. Also it is highly likely that users of wireless communications devices want to limit dissemination of personal location information on privacy and or security grounds.

According to the present invention in a first aspect there is provided a communications system as defined in claim of the accompanying claims.

According to the present invention in a second aspect there is provided a method as defined in claim of the accompanying claims.

According to the present invention in a third aspect there is provided a mobile station as defined in claim of the accompanying claims.

According to the present invention in a fourth aspect there is provided a proxy location server as defined in claim of the accompanying claims.

Throughout the following description identical reference numerals will be used to identify like parts.

Generally in accordance with embodiments to be described there is provided a communication system and a mobile station proxy location server and method for use in the system. The system comprises a mobile station operable to communicate with other communication stations by a wireless link of a first kind a location indicator operable to provide a location indication of the mobile station by establishing communication by a wireless link of a second kind with the mobile station when the mobile station and the location indicator are within a communication range of one another a proxy location server operably coupled to the location indicator and a location server operable to communicate with the proxy location server to receive a notification of the location of the mobile station when detected to be within communication range of the location indicator the proxy location server being operable to receive and respond to a location query message from the location server querying location of the mobile station.

The proxy location server may be operable to provide registration of the mobile station when the location of the mobile station is detected to be within communication range of the location indicator and to provide de registration of the mobile station when the location of the mobile station is detected to be outside the communication range of the location indicator.

The communication system may be a cellular radio system and the wireless link of the first kind may be a radio link between each mobile station and a base station of the cellular radio system serving the mobile station. The communication system may be a GSM system a TETRA system an APCO 25 a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS or a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA system.

The system where a cellular radio system may include an infrastructure operably coupled to or including the location server and the location server may be operably coupled to a plurality of base stations of the system.

The wireless link of the second kind may be a short range link. Each of the mobile stations and the or each location indicator may be operable to communicate by a short range wireless link which is in accordance with a short range communication protocol standard selected from the Bluetooth communications standard the WiFi 802.11 standard and the Zigbee standard.

The proxy location server may be operable to have two way communication with the mobile station whose location has been detected by establishing communication between the mobile station and the location indicator. The mobile station may be operable to receive and display data received from the proxy location server. The mobile station may be operable to receive in response to display of the data received from the proxy location server an input signal from a user and to forward a signal to the proxy location server to indicate that the user accepts notification by the proxy location server to the location server of data relating to the detected location of the at least one mobile station. The proxy location server may be operable to notify the detected location of the at least one mobile station to the location server only after the user of the at least one mobile station has accepted the sending of the notification.

The system may include a first terminal operable to send to the location server a location query message querying a location of a second terminal which is the mobile station whose location has been detected by the location indicator and notified to the location server by the proxy location server. The first terminal may be operable to receive in response to the location query message a response message including data relating to the detected location of the second terminal.

The first terminal may be a mobile station and may be operable to send the location query message and receive the response message in radio signals communicated between the first terminal and a serving base station using a wireless link of the first kind.

The location server may be operable to send the response message to the first terminal Alternatively or in addition the location server may be operable to forward the location query message to the proxy location server.

The proxy location server may be operable to receive and respond to the location query message by providing information dependent upon knowledge of circumstances of unavailability of the second terminal. The proxy location server may be operable to desist from responding to the location query message on behalf of the second terminal.

The proxy location server may be operable to forward the location query message to the second terminal. The second terminal may be operable in response to receiving the location query message to generate an alert e.g. an audible or non audible alert for its user.

The proxy location server may be operable to include in the response message a message provided or selected by a user of the second terminal. The message may be provided or selected by the user of the second terminal. The message may be a pre recorded message or a message configured by the user. The message may include emergency contact details.

The proxy location server may be operable to request a user identifier and or a password before responding to the location query message. The proxy location server may be operable to communicate an alert to the second terminal subsequent to receipt of the requested user identifier and or password.

The proxy location server may in response to receiving the location query message be operable to determine that the first terminal is in a class of terminals permitted to receive a response to the location query.

The proxy location server may be operable to send to the second terminal a signal indicating that the location query message from the first terminal has a special priority urgency or emergency nature. The second terminal may be operable in response to receiving the signal to provide an alert signal which indicates the special nature of the location query message. The second terminal in response to receiving the signal may be operable to vibrate in a vibration pattern indicating the special nature.

The proxy location server may be operable in response to receipt of a location query message relating to location of a mobile station which has de registered with the location processor to issue in response a message indicating that the mobile station is not within range of the associated location indicator.

Referring to of the accompanying drawings a block schematic diagram of an illustrative communication system is shown. The system comprises a system infrastructure including a first base station and a second base station . In this example the system infrastructure and the first and second base stations are part of a cellular mobile communication network. For example the system may be a system operating according to a pre defined protocol standard known for use in a cellular system. Wireless links established in such a system are referred to herein as links of a first kind as distinct from links of a second kind referred to later. Thus the first kind of link is a link established using a protocol for communication between mobile stations and their serving base stations in the cellular system. The system may for example be a TETRA system. In that case the first kind of link is in accordance with the TETRA standard defined by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI . Alternatively the system may be an APCO 25 system. In that case the first kind of link is in accordance with the APCO 25 standard defined by the US Association of Public Safety Communications Officials International Inc. Alternatively the system may be a GSM system. In that case the first kind of link is in accordance with the GSM standard defined by ETSI. Alternatively the link of the first kind may in accordance with a Universal Mobile Telecommunications Standard UMTS wherein the system a is UMTS system or a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA standard wherein the system is a CDMA system.

The skilled person will appreciate that the detail of the communications network and protocol employed in the system is unimportant for the purpose of understanding the embodiments described herein and so for the sake of conciseness and clarity of description the detailed elements and operation of the system will not be described in further detail herein unless directly relevant to operation of embodiments of the invention.

In order to provide a location query response service within the system a location server constitutes a processing resource of the system and is coupled to or incorporated within the system infrastructure of the system . A first proxy location server and a second proxy location server also constitute processors of the system and are also coupled to the location server . Of course the skilled person will appreciate that a greater or fewer number of proxy location servers can be provided in the system at various geographic locations each operable to communicate with the location server .

Each of the first proxy location server and the second proxy location server and other proxy servers of the system if any is able to communicate with the location server using a pre defined communication protocol for such communication. The communication may use wireless links e.g. of the kind referred to herein as the first kind as described earlier. For this purpose each of the first proxy location server and the second proxy location server may communicate via a neighbouring base station of the system e.g. the base station . Alternatively the communication with the location server may be established via a wireless or wired link of another kind.

In an illustrative example the first proxy location server may be located at a boarding gate at a departure terminal of an airport not shown and the second proxy location server may be located in a cinema not shown .

In relation to the first proxy location server a first source of local data for example a non volatile storage device such as a non volatile memory or a hard disc drive HDD is coupled to the first proxy location server . The first source of local data is a repository of information relevant to location requests in respect of communications devices within communications range of the first proxy location server . In an example manipulation of the content of the first source of local data is achieved by a web service hosted by a local information technology IT infrastructure not shown the first proxy location server being a client with respect to the web service. Of course the skilled person will appreciate that other techniques to manipulate the content of the first source of local data can be employed. Ownership and or maintenance of a web service and hence data stored by the first source of local data can therefore be independent of the network operator for example an operator of the system described herein. The local IT infrastructure may be in this example owned and or managed by a local authority such as an airport although the local IT infrastructure can be owned and or managed by for example a hospital or a cinema where appropriate context dictates otherwise. Consequently the data stored by the first source of local data corresponds to customised information relevant to the location of the first proxy location server for example flight times or film times. Of course the type of data or information stored is related to the location of the first proxy location server and storage of other types of information is therefore conceivable.

A first short range communicator e.g. a communication terminal located near the first proxy location server is coupled to the first proxy location server in order to indicate detection of the location of mobile communication devices including a mobile station when within communication range of the communicator . A wireless communication link of a second kind as distinct from the first kind referred to earlier to provide two way communication with such devices including the mobile station is established when such devices come within communication range of the communicator . The second kind of link is a short range wireless link for example a link having a maximum range of about 400 meters. For example the short range wireless link may be established by use of a known short range wireless communication protocol. This may for example be the protocol defined by the Bluetooth standard. This is the open wireless communication terminal standard defined by the Bluetooth Consortium and Promotion Group. This standard is also known by the name IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers standard 802.15.1. Alternatively the protocol of the short range link may be a Wireless Local Area network protocol in accordance with the 802.11 standard defined by the IEEE. Alternatively the protocol may be the Zigbee protocol defined by the Zigbee Alliance in accordance with the 802.15.4 standard defined by the IEEE.

In an illustrative example the mobile station is also capable of communicating with the second base station by a wireless communication link of the first kind referred to earlier.

In relation to the second proxy location server a second source of local data for example a non volatile storage device such as a non volatile memory or hard disc drive HDD is coupled to the second proxy location server . The second source of local data is also a repository of information to location requests in respect of communications devices within the communications range of the second proxy location server . In an example manipulation of the content of the second source of local data is also achieved by a web service hosted by a local IT infrastructure not shown the second proxy location server being a client with respect to the web service. Of course the skilled person will appreciate that other techniques to manipulate the content of the first source of local data can be employed. Ownership and or maintenance of the web service and hence the data stored by the second source of local data can therefore be independent of network operators for example the operator of the system described herein. The local IT infrastructure may be in an example owned and or managed by a local management authority such as a cinema although the local IT infrastructure can be owned and or managed by for example a hospital or an airport where appropriate context dictates otherwise. Consequently the data stored by the second source of local data corresponds to customised information relevant to the location of the second proxy location server for example film showing times or flight times. Of course the type of data or information stored is related primarily to the particular location of the second proxy location server and storage of other types of information is therefore possible.

A second short range communicator is coupled to the second proxy location server in order to indicate detection of the location of mobile communication devices such as a mobile station when within communication range of the communicator by a wireless communication link of the second kind described above and to provide two way communication with each of such devices by the link. In an example the mobile station is also capable of communicating with the second base station by a wireless communication link of the first kind described above.

In operation as illustrated in the mobile station MS moves into communication range of the first short range communicator and detects Step the presence of the first proxy location server via the short range link with the first short range communicator . The first short range communicator also detects that the mobile station is within its communication range. In this example the first mobile station is enabled to support a location query service. When the mobile station and the first short range communicator have each detected that they are within range of one another the mobile station uploads Step data from the first proxy location server and generates an alert such as an audible tone and displays the uploaded data once uploaded for review by a first user of the mobile station . The uploaded data is derived from the information stored by the first source of local data that is pertinent to the location of the mobile station when within range of the communicator . The user of the mobile station is then allowed to accept or decline Step the uploaded data. If the uploaded data is declined the user of the mobile station is permitted to select Step an alternative response. Otherwise acceptance of the uploaded data is communicated Step by the mobile station to the first proxy location server for implementation. The first proxy location server then stores e.g. in the first source of local data a selection made by the user of the mobile station based upon the accepted uploaded data. The mobile station then becomes registered with the first proxy location server and the first proxy location server notifies the location server of registration by the first mobile station thereby indicating the current location of the mobile station to the location server . The proxy location server thereby updates the location server Step the location server recording the registration in a database not shown . Alternatively the selection made by the user can be stored by the location server without the need for the first proxy location server to store the selection made. In either case the first proxy location server also confirms Step registration back to the mobile station along with an indication as to any subsequent operational state that the mobile station should assume. Such a state may for example include a powered down state a silent alert mode or a flight airplane mode depending on the location of the short range communicator . Depending upon capabilities of the mobile station the indication of the subsequent operational state can be implemented automatically by the mobile station or communicated to the first user of the mobile station as an instruction to be implemented by the first user of the mobile station . In response the mobile station switches to the state instructed by the first proxy location server Step .

The uploaded data may be in an example presented as a menu driven list of options relating to possible responses to a location query from a third party based upon the location of the first proxy location server that has drawn upon the information stored in the first source of local data to generate the list of options. In this respect the uploaded data can be used to generate one or more of a default voice or textual message enablement of default security provisions emergency alert provisions default enquirers to which responses are permitted enablement of location query responses or customisation options. A customisation option can be one or more of an option to record a bespoke voice message an option to record a bespoke textual message an option to set enquirer identities and or passwords or emergency contact details. Of course the above options are not all suitable for all situations and so the skilled person will appreciate that it may not be possible to implement one or more options depending upon the circumstances in question.

The second short range communicator may operate in a manner similar to the first short range communicator to detect location of the mobile station when within range of the communicator to allow the mobile station to detect that it is within range of the communicator and to provide two way communication with the mobile station . The mobile station operates in a manner similar to the mobile station . It thus carries out steps similar to steps to and . The second proxy location server operates in a manner similar to that of the server . It thus carries out steps similar to steps and .

A location query process is illustrated in . A third party operating a communication terminal needs to obtain a current location of the mobile station and hence usually a current location of the user of the mobile station . The notation of the user terminal is abbreviated in to MS and the notation of the mobile station is abbreviated in to MS. The third party uses the communication terminal MS to execute a location query. A location query application may be stored in a memory of the communication terminal MS for this purpose. Such a location query application may function in accordance with a protocol agreed in advance for implementing location querying between the communication terminal MS and the location server . In an example the communication terminal MS may be a mobile station operating in the system and capable of communicating with the system infrastructure via a radio link with the first base station which serves the terminal MS i.e. a link of the first kind described earlier. However the communications terminal MS can alternatively be any suitable communications terminal wireless or wireline capable of communicating with the location server for example a Personal Computer PC coupled to the Internet via an Internet Service Provider ISP .

Initially the third party attempts to contact the user of the mobile station MS by calling the mobile station . This is represented by Step in . The user of the mobile station MS has registered with the first proxy location server as described earlier and in an example has powered down the first mobile station and stopped using the mobile station e.g. because the user has boarded an aeroplane not shown or entered a cinema not shown . When registering the user of the mobile station MS may have selected a default pre recorded message by the user to be used in relation to location queries.

As a result of the mobile station MS being in a powered down state the third party receives no response Step from the mobile station MS . In the event that the third party is not interested in obtaining further information concerning the location of the mobile station MS Step the third party either hangs up or leaves a voicemail message Step when prompted to do so. Otherwise the third party decides Step to send a location query message to the location server in order to try to ascertain the location of the mobile station MS using the location query application stored on the communication terminal MS . Consequently the location query is communicated by the location query application via the system infrastructure to the location server . The location server looks up the identity of the first proxy location server with which the first mobile station has registered and then communicates with the first proxy location server in order to forward the location query message initiated by the communication terminal MS as an incoming location query. The third party constitutes the source of the incoming location query message. Alternatively if desired the location server can be modified to ask the third party if he she would like more information concerning the inability to contact the mobile station instead of requiring the third party to initiate the location query. However to implement such functionality account needs to be taken of the fact that information needs to be acquired by the location server as to the inability of the third party to contact the mobile station MS directly.

The first proxy location server upon receiving the location query may look up the called party i.e. the mobile station MS in this example and determine the response option selected by the user of the mobile station MS by accessing the first source of local data. Once identified the selected response is implemented Step . The selected response may be for the server to desist from sending any response. Alternatively in this example the first proxy location server drawing if required upon information stored by the first source of local data may construct a textual response message such as one stating that Mr. X is currently on a flight and is due to arrive in New York at 22.00 hours . The textual message can alternatively be converted to speech using any suitable text to speech converter. As a further alternative a pre recorded message can be sent to the third party for playing by the third party. In this example the user Mr. X of the mobile station MS is identified in the message. This information can be obtained for example from an electronic address book of the third party or a telephone number of the mobile station MS can be used instead. Indeed in the context of a TETRA system a so called alias string can be obtained looked up in an alias database not shown to identify the user and or the mobile station MS . If required the first proxy location server can permit the user of the mobile station MS to configure how the user of the mobile station MS is to be identified to the third party for example by name or telephone number or not at all.

A response message to the third party including any message selected by the proxy location server may be sent to the third party operating the terminal MS either by the proxy location server or on behalf of the proxy location server by the location server . In either case where the terminal MS is a mobile station served by the base station the response message may be forwarded in a radio signal by the base station using a wireless link of the first kind described earlier.

Following step the third party may hang up Step when the response message has been received at the terminal MS e.g. when the pre recorded message has played at the terminal MS . In the example where the pre recorded message is played if desired the third party can be given a further opportunity to record a voicemail message.

In another embodiment the second short range communicator is in fact a plurality of short range communication units fitted to seats in an establishment such as a cinema or theatre each of the plurality of short range communications units being coupled to the second proxy location server . The mobile station upon entering into range of a given seat in the establishment may register with the second proxy location server in the manner described earlier with reference to and the user of the mobile station may select a default optionally pre recorded message associated with the circumstances of the establishment. The selected option may be stored in the second source of local data and the registration by the second mobile station is communicated to the location server the registration being recorded in the database of the location server .

Consequently after attempting to telephone the user of the mobile station the third party caller requests further information concerning the location of the mobile station Step by initiating a location query the location query being received by the location server and forwarded to the second proxy location server identified as having information concerning the location of the mobile station . The second proxy location server retrieves the response previously selected by the user of the mobile station from the second source of local data and implements the selected response in response to the incoming location query received the caller is the source of the incoming location query. The mechanisms for provision of the user options and generation of messages are as described above in relation to the previous embodiments concerning the server . Consequently the second proxy location server may communicate a suitable message such as Ms Y is at the cinema the film ends at 20 30 but if this is an emergency please call the cinema manager on . . . .

In yet another embodiment the mobile station or the mobile station is capable of generating a non audible alert for example a vibrating alert. Further the mobile station may be configured to generate a predetermined vibration pattern indicative of an emergency situation. A protocol for initiation of the predetermined vibration pattern may also be implemented in the mobile station to support this feature for example a new protocol identifier may be defined for use using a known Short Messaging Service SMS protocol so that upon receipt of an SMS message containing the new protocol identifier the emergency vibration pattern is implemented by the mobile station . In an example the mobile station may enable use of this feature during registration of the second mobile station with the second proxy location server . As an optional feature in view of the usual seriousness of the use of the emergency vibration alert the user of the mobile station can be prompted to set or select a username and or password to permit activation of the emergency vibration alert. Such data can also be stored in the second source of local data .

Thus when the second proxy location server implements the selected response to the third party the second proxy location server may communicate a suitable message such as Ms. Y is at the cinema. Her phone is switched on and it has a vibrating SMS capability. The caller is then prompted to select communication of an emergency alert. If such an option is selected Step the caller is then prompted by the second proxy location server for a username and or password. If the username and or password provided by the caller are is correct the second proxy location server may send a message e.g. an SMS message to the mobile station to initiate the emergency vibrate pattern along with a suitable alert text message to advise the user of the second mobile station that the caller is trying to make contact on an urgent basis.

In a further embodiment a police officer may be in a hospital e.g. to take a witness statement. The first proxy location server can be located at an entrance to the hospital. The mobile station registering with the first proxy location server may be a mobile radio handset used by the police officer. Instead of simply selecting the provision of a pre recorded message advising callers of the location of the police officer although this can be implemented if desired the police officer may be provided with an option to permit an advisory message and or alert to be sent to a third party interested in when the officer is detected to leave the hospital. Consequently when a third party attempts to determine the location of the police officer a pre recorded advanced message may be played Step to the third party. For example the message may state This officer entered the hospital X at 11 30. Please press the button if you would like to receive a text message alert if when he is detected leaving the premises. The third party can then press the button Step on the keypad of the terminal in order to receive an alert if desired when the officer has left the hospital. Thereafter the third party hangs up Step .

In all of the above embodiments a mechanism may be provided to de register the mobile station from the first proxy location server and or to de register the mobile station from the second proxy location server . De registration can be achieved automatically after expiry of a time out period and or through use of local context for example if the locally stored data is updated with information pertinent to the first and or second proxy location server such as knowledge that a flight has landed or a finishing time of a film has passed. The updated information can be used as a trigger for de registration. Alternatively de registration by the proxy location server may be triggered by the communicator detecting that the mobile station is no longer within detection range range of the short range communication of the communicator .

It should by appreciated that in any of the above embodiments the source of the incoming location query can be identified to a proxy location server e.g. the server by a user of a mobile station e.g. the mobile station registered with the server as being in a class authorised or permitted to receive a selected response from the server on behalf of the mobile station.

It is thus possible to provide a communication system and method of responding to an incoming location query that enables locations of mobile stations to be traced especially whilst in a powered down state thereby providing a calling party with sufficient information to make a value judgment as to a subsequent course of action in the light of circumstances surrounding the need to contact a user of a given communications device. For example in an emergency situation options can be provided to enable an alternative communication to be made to follow up an unanswered call. Additionally users of mobile stations are encouraged to power down their terminals or set them to a vibrate alert mode in circumstances when receipt of audible call alerts are inappropriate because the users are comforted by the knowledge that they can still be contacted in an emergency.

In the foregoing specification specific embodiments of the present invention have been described. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of present invention. The benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential features or elements of any or all the claims. The invention is defined solely by the appended claims including any amendments made during the pendency of this application and all equivalents of those claims as issued.

Moreover in this document relational terms such as first and second top and bottom and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another entity or action without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising has having includes including contains containing or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises has includes contains a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by comprises . . . a has . . . a includes . . . a contains . . . a does not without more constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises has includes contains the element. The terms a and an are defined as one or more unless explicitly stated otherwise herein. The terms substantially essentially approximately about or any other version thereof are defined as being close to as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art and in one non limiting embodiment the term is defined to be within 10 in another embodiment within 5 in another embodiment within 1 and in another embodiment within 0.5 . The term coupled as used herein is defined as connected although not necessarily directly and not necessarily mechanically. A device or structure that is configured in a certain way is configured in at least that way but may also be configured in ways that are not listed.

