---

title: Electromagnetic wrap
abstract: A device and method for altering the line reactance of a transmission line having a transmission line, a first floating conductor and a grounding (shielding) conductor. The first floating conductor is positioned between and electrically insulated from the transmission line and the grounding conductor. A source and a load are connected at opposite ends of the transmission line.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07804029&OS=07804029&RS=07804029
owner: The United States of America as represented by the United States Department of Energy
number: 07804029
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081205
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC07 05ID14517 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and the Battelle Energy Alliance.

An electromagnetic wrap device and method for the control of transmission line reactances combination of capacitance inductance and resistivity .

Transmission lines are used in a myriad of applications from within small handheld electronics transferring communication signals to large power systems transferring large amounts of power. In its simplest form a transmission line is merely a conductor of electricity from one point a source to another load . Transmission lines may be used for alternating current or direct current where deleterious alternating current surges differing from the fundamental frequency generated by the source may be induced to exist. The elements of the transmission line that allow development of such deleterious surges are the inductance capacitance and resistance inherent in the physical characteristics of the transmission line. These physical characteristics allow modes of the frequency components in the surges to induce reactances whose vector sums with the resistance of the transmission line result in an impedance upon which the voltage and current surges are developed. Voltage surges can break down insulation in the system incapacitating a system by creating electrical shorts. Current surges also incapacitate a system by destroying control elements switches fuses transistors diodes etc.

Ideally transmission lines transfer signals without loss and without alteration of signal information content. If the transmission line characteristics are not optimized for the system the received signals may be significantly altered even over relatively short distances. Worse even when the transmission line characteristics are optimized they may allow damaging resonances to form within the transmission line resulting in the aforementioned surges of line current and or voltage.

For example the Fourier Transform Ion Cyclotron Resonance Mass Spectrometer FTMS at INL Idaho National Laboratory uses a coaxial style of transmission line to carry swept high frequency power 50 Hz to 4 MHz to metal plates of an ion cyclotron resonance ICR cell within a high vacuum and within the strong 7 Tesla field of a superconducting magnet. This transmission line is severely constrained by two phenomena. First if the transmission line has too little line capacitance less than 60 pf damaging resonances can occur at high frequencies within the transmission line resulting in reflected voltage surges which can puncture the metal oxide semiconductor gate structures of FETs field effect transistors used in the FTMS. Second if the transmission line has too much capacitance greater than 100 pf the current demanded by the combined transmission line and load capacitance exceeds the current limit of the FETs resulting in their destruction.

Another example is the use of stepper motors to control the position of weldments and or welding torches in a remote high radiation field automated process such as that designed for use in Yucca Mountain. State of the art welding systems cannot currently extend beyond approximately 100 feet from their controllers due to the build up of damaging resonances resulting in the breakdown of insulation in the motors and transmission lines. The need to maintain and operate the controllers in a minimal radiation field for protection of their operators begs for a solution to allow extending the cable length.

Various methods are used to adjust the line reactance combination of capacitance inductance and resistivity of a transmission line. Obviously the length or diameter of the wire or the type of insulating material used in a transmission line may be altered to adjust capacitance of the transmission line. Unfortunately in many instances these may not be readily changeable or may already be optimized.

Various components may also be added to a transmission line such as capacitors and or inductors to form filters which seek to control the allowable modes of the frequency components thereby minimizing potential surges. Unfortunately when capacitors or inductors are used they act as voltage dividers reducing the voltage transmitted through the transmission line.

Therefore there exists a need for a device and method for altering the effects of reactive components of a transmission line without substantially altering the transmission line s physical characteristics or reducing the strength of the signal transmitted.

An electromagnetic wrap device and method for altering the line reactance of a transmission line having a transmission line a first floating conductor and a grounding conductor. The first floating conductor is positioned at least partially between and electrically insulated from the transmission line and the grounding conductor. A source and a load are connected at opposite ends of the transmission line.

An electromagnetic wrap device and method for altering the line reactance combination of capacitance inductance and resistivity of a transmission line having a transmission line a first floating conductor and a grounding conductor. The first floating conductor is positioned at least partially between and electrically insulated from the transmission line and the grounding conductor. A source and a load are connected at opposite ends of the transmission line.

The transmission line is electrically connected to a first node and a second node at opposite ends. The first node and a second node preferably represent a source and a load respectively. The grounding conductor is electrically connected to earth ground .

The transmission line line reactance can be adjusted by adjusting the properties material shape dimensions etc. of the transmission line first floating conductor grounding conductor the first insulator the second insulator or a combination thereof.

The transmission line transmits an electrical signal between the first node and the second node . Preferably the transmission line is an electrically conductive wire pipe or any other electrical conductor. Although only one transmission line is depicted in any number of transmission lines may be used having various shapes and sizes. Preferably the transmission line is selected to optimize its line reactance while also accounting for the size and weight of the entire system.

The first floating conductor is electrically floating and therefore is electrically isolated from voltage sources and drains contrary to a coaxial cable or a faraday cage . Preferably the first floating conductor is selected to optimize the line reactance of the transmission line while also accounting for the size and weight of the entire system. Preferably the first floating conductor is never electrically connected to earth ground . In the alternative the first floating conductor is selectively electrically connected to earth ground whereby the transmission line line reactance can be dynamically modified by grounding or floating the first floating conductor .

Preferably the first floating conductor surrounds the transmission line along the entire length of the transmission line . Although only one first floating conductor is depicted in any number of first floating conductors may be used having various shapes sizes and electromagnetic characteristics. In the embodiment shown in the first floating conductor is at least partially positioned between the transmission line and the grounding conductor . In one alternative embodiment various reactive or active components are added to the first floating conductor for line optimization as well as adding optimized filtering characteristics for the transmission line . For example capacitors and inductors may be implemented as shown in and . Other electrical components may also be added to the first floating conductor to build more complex circuits such as transistors resistors capacitors inductors integrated circuits etc.

The grounding conductor is electrically connected to earth ground . Any circuit will directly or indirectly be connected to earth ground through various surrounding electrically conductive or electrically insulating materials e.g. shielding casing grounding circuits air wood plastics etc. via capacitive coupling. The grounding conductor is depicted in merely to show a complete circuit for the line reactance of the transmission line .

Preferably the grounding conductor is an outer casing connected to earth ground in order to reduce noise internal or external to the casing. Although only one grounding conductor is depicted in any number of grounding conductors may be used having various shapes and sizes. Preferably the grounding conductor is selected to optimize the line reactance of the transmission line while also accounting for the size and weight of the entire system.

Preferably the grounding conductor is connected to earth ground at only one location along the length of the grounding conductor to avoid compromising the integrity of the shielding through a phenomenon known as a ground loop.

The earth ground is an electrical ground preferably earth. Preferably earth ground is obtained through the various surrounding electrically conductive or electrically insulating materials e.g. wires casing grounding circuits air wood plastics etc. eventually electrically connected to the ground. More preferably earth ground is an electrical conductor buried underground e.g. pipes wires etc. .

The first insulator electrically insulates the first floating conductor from the transmission line . The second insulator electrically insulates the first floating conductor and the grounding conductor . Preferably the first insulator and the second insulator are each made of air ceramics glass porcelain composite polymer materials polyethylene PVC polymers oil impregnated paper Teflon silicone modified ethylene tetrafluoroethylene ETFE compressed inorganic powders or combinations thereof. Preferably the first insulator and the second insulator are selected to optimize the line reactance of the transmission line while also accounting for the size and weight of the entire system.

The first node and the second node are devices capable of sending or receiving a signal transmitted on the transmission line . Preferably the transmission line is optimized for the desired signal or power propagation between the first node and the second node . In one embodiment the first node the second node or both are sensitive to the line reactance of the transmission line .

In one embodiment the first node is a control system and the second node is one or more sensors e.g. thermistor photodiode tensiometer wound coil etc. . For example in one embodiment the first node is a computer and the second node is a collection of metal plates of ion cyclotron resonance ICR . In another embodiment the first node is a first computer and the second node is a second computer. In yet another embodiment the first node is a power supply source and the second node is an electrically resistive load such as a motor computer light or television. In yet another embodiment the first node is a computer and the second node is a servo motor control.

Although the first floating conductor is depicted as a solid conductor in and it may be one or more wires wound around the first insulator . Likewise the grounding conductor may be one or more wires wound around the second insulator . Similarly the transmission line may be a one or more wires running in parallel or wound around an object. Using readily available wires to construct the transmission line first floating conductor grounding conductor or a combination thereof may be preferably since it may be more cost effective.

Although and depict the transmission line the first floating conductor and the grounding conductor as having similar shapes and dimensions the transmission line the first floating conductor the grounding conductor or a combination thereof may have unique dimensions length width height or shapes. For example it may be preferably to alter the length of the first floating conductor the grounding conductor or both to variably alter the line reactance of the transmission line for optimal efficiency.

The grounding conductor completely surrounds the transmission line the first insulator the first floating conductor the second insulator . The grounding conductor is electrically connected to earth ground . Preferably the grounding conductor is one or more electrically conductive elements leadings to earth ground e.g. casings tables floors pipes etc. . Preferably in this embodiment the second insulator is air.

In this embodiment a first node exterior to the grounding conductor is connected to the first transmission line by one or more external transmission wires . An aperture in the grounding conductor allows the one or more external transmission wires to connect to the first transmission line within the interior of the grounding conductor . The first transmission line is electrically connected to the second transmission line . Finally the second transmission line is electrically connected to the second node .

The first transmission line is completely surrounded by the first floating conductor along the length of the first transmission line . A first insulator is positioned between the first transmission line and the first floating conductor . The second transmission line is completely surrounded by the second floating conductor along the length of the second transmission line . A third insulator is positioned between the second transmission line and the second floating conductor .

The first floating conductor and the second first floating conductor are electrically insulated from the grounding conductor by a second insulator . Preferably in this embodiment the second insulator is air.

In this embodiment the grounding conductor is preferably a casing for a larger device which protects the larger device from electrical noise. The grounding conductor is electrically connected to earth ground .

In the alternative the first node may be positioned inside the grounding conductor . In this embodiment it may be preferably to omit the one or more external transmission wires . In yet another alternative the second node may be positioned outside of the grounding conductor . In this embodiment it may be preferably to include the one or more wires additionally between the second node and the transmission line within the grounding conductor .

The one or more external transmission wires transfer the signal produced by the first node into the transmission line . The one or more wires are electrical conductors preferably wires coaxial cabling electrically conductive tubes the embodiment shown in etc. In a preferred embodiment the one or more wires are one or more of the embodiment shown in .

Using an embodiment similar to the capacitive reactance was altered for a system having a line capacitance of about 150 pf. The one or more wires were a single RG 58 coaxial cable having a length of about 3.5 feet connecting the first node to the first transmission line . The first transmission line was a 22 gauge enameled wire. The first insulator was a solid ceramic. The first floating conductor was a inch copper tube. The first transmission line had a length of 12 feet and the first floating conductor had a length of about 3 feet.

The second transmission line was a inch copper tube. The second insulator was inch fish spine insulators separating the second transmission line and the second floating conductor therefore using air vacuum as an insulator. The second floating conductor was a stainless steel tube. The second transmission line and the second floating conductor each had a length of about 8 inches. The grounding conductor was a steel encasing designed to prevent electrical noise from entering or exiting its interior.

By surrounding the first transmission line with the first floating conductor and the second transmission line with the second floating conductor the capacitance of the transmission system one or more wires first transmission line and second transmission line was lowered to about 90 pf.

A second insulator electrically insulates the first floating conductor the first electromagnetic wrap the second electromagnetic wrap and the third electromagnetic wrap from the grounding conductor . Preferably the second insulator is air. The grounding conductor is electrically connected to earth ground .

A first node exterior to the grounding conductor is connected to the first transmission line by one or more external transmission wires . An aperture in the grounding conductor allows the one or more external transmission wires to connect to the first transmission line within the interior of the grounding conductor . The first transmission line is electrically connected the second node .

The first electromagnetic wrap has an insulator and a floating conductor . The insulator of the first electromagnetic wrap partially surrounds the first floating conductor at a position unique from the second electromagnetic wrap and the third electromagnetic wrap . The insulator of the first electromagnetic wrap is then surrounded preferably fully surrounded by the floating conductor of the first electromagnetic wrap .

The second electromagnetic wrap has an insulator and a floating conductor . The insulator of the second electromagnetic wrap partially surrounds the first floating conductor at a position unique from the first electromagnetic wrap and the third electromagnetic wrap . The insulator of the second electromagnetic wrap is then surrounded preferably fully surrounded by the floating conductor of the second electromagnetic wrap .

The third electromagnetic wrap has an insulator and a floating conductor . The insulator of the third electromagnetic wrap partially surrounds the first floating conductor at a position unique from the first electromagnetic wrap and the second electromagnetic wrap . The insulator of the third electromagnetic wrap is then surrounded preferably fully surrounded by the first floating conductor of the third electromagnetic wrap .

The size and shape of the electromagnetic wraps the first electromagnetic wrap the second electromagnetic wrap and the third electromagnetic wrap may be the same or different. By adjusting the various sizes of the electromagnetic wraps the line reactance of the transmission line can be altered. Thus the line reactance of the transmission line could be designed to block filter or pass desired frequencies along the transmission line whether for signal or power more efficiently.

In one embodiment one or more electromagnetic wraps are used in an inline filter design whereby deleterious frequencies traveling through the transmission line are attenuated favoring desired frequencies. This may reduce the cost and size of various filters used in communications as well as in power systems.

The one or more floating conductor patterns finely tune the line reactance of the transmission line by using one or more electromagnetic wraps that are then wrapped around the transmission line . One or more floating conductor patterns are preferably printed as conducting films on the first insulator and provide the desired line reactances of the transmission line .

The transmission line protective jacket protects the various components from external influences such as corrosion electrical conductivity etc.

In this embodiment the first floating conductor has a first conductive pattern and a second conductive pattern . The first conductive pattern and the second conductive pattern are electrically separated except for a narrow conductive pattern . As the first floating conductive pattern is wrapped around the first insulator and transmission line the first conductive pattern forms a first capacitor C shown in between the first conductive pattern and the transmission line as shown in

The first floating conductor is preferably a substrate having the first conductive pattern and the second conductive pattern . In the alternative the first floating conductor may be the first conductive pattern and the second conductive pattern deposited on the first insulator .

Likewise the second conductive pattern forms a second capacitor C shown in between the second conductive pattern and the transmission line as shown in . The narrow conductive pattern as it is wrapped around the first insulator and transmission line forms a first inductor L shown in connecting the first conductive pattern and the second conductive pattern shown in

The gap between the first floating conductor and the grounding conductor produces a second set of capacitors as shown in and . The first conductive pattern forms a third capacitor C shown in between the first conductive pattern and the grounding conductor as shown in . Likewise the second conductive pattern forms a fourth capacitor C shown in between the second conductive pattern and the grounding conductor as shown in

The first conductive pattern of the first floating conductor and the second conductive pattern of the second floating conductor partially overlap each other between the transmission line and the grounding conductor . This partial overlap generates a parallel connecting capacitor C in .

In the alternative the first conductive pattern of the first floating conductor and the second conductive pattern completely overlap creating a series connected capacitor. In yet another alternate embodiment the first conductive pattern of the first floating conductor and the second conductive pattern do not overlap at all creating two separate capacitor paths such as the circuit diagram shown in without the interconnected capacitor C .

The first floating conductor is preferably a substrate having the first conductive pattern . In the alternative the first floating conductor is the first conductive pattern is deposited onto the first insulator .

Likewise the second floating conductor is preferably a substrate having the second conductive pattern . In the alternative the second floating conductor is the second conductive pattern deposited onto the second insulator .

The first conductive pattern forms a first capacitor C shown in between the first conductive pattern and the transmission line as shown in . Likewise the second conductive pattern forms a second capacitor C shown in between the second conductive pattern and the transmission line passing through the first insulator the first floating conductor and the second insulator as shown in

The first conductive pattern also forms a third capacitor C shown in between the first conductive pattern and the grounding conductor passing through the second insulator the second floating conductor and the third insulator as shown in . Likewise the second conductive pattern forms a fourth capacitor C shown in between the second conductive pattern and the grounding conductor as shown in

The first conductive pattern of the first floating conductor and the second conductive pattern of the second floating conductor also form a fifth capacitor C shown in coupling the first capacitor C and the third capacitor C to the second capacitor C and the forth capacitor C as shown in

The floating conductors first floating conductor the second floating conductor the third floating conductor and the fourth floating conductor each have conductors which alter the line reactance of the transmission line . The floating conductors are each represented as a conducting pattern embedded in a non conducting film in but they could also be solid conductors in other embodiments which would alter the circuit produced in . In yet another alternative embodiment one or more of the floating conductors are embedded in one or more of the insulators first insulator second insulator third insulator fourth insulator fifth insulator .

The first floating conductor and the fourth floating conductor each have a first conductive pattern and a second conductive pattern connected by a narrow conductor creating an inductor as described in and . The second floating conductor and the third floating conductor each have a conductive pattern and provide interlayer capacitances creating a parallel running capacitor as described in and to complete the filter circuit illustrated in

The embodiment in couples a transmission line to a diode bridge using capacitive coupling. The diode bridge powers a small battery or capacitor . The small battery or capacitor is connected to and powers a control system preferably a microcontroller. This circuit derives power by sampling the signal through capacitive coupling of a first floating conductor and a second floating conductor from the transmission line .

In the alternative power for the control system may be obtained using other parasitic methods including inductive coupling through from the current flowing in the transmission line . This parasitic method also uses the diode bridge which rectifies the current to direct current and stores power for the circuit in the small battery or capacitor . In the alternative other power sources may be used such as an external battery or a simple ac dc conversion device such as a wall wart.

The control system is connected to the reflectometer . The reflectometer monitors the flow and level of power in each direction of the transmission line and produces a signal to the control system . The control system using the input from the reflectometer controls the switch which electrically connects the third floating conductor to earth ground or electrically floats the third floating conductor .

In a preferred embodiment the control system is a microcontroller or an ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit . Preferably the control system comprises an analog to digital converter which continuously monitors the voltage the current converted to a voltage signal or a combination thereof of the transmission line for reflections resonations surges standing wave ratio combinations thereof etc. As known in the art there are various methods of converting current into a voltage such as reading the voltage of a known resistor or using a voltage to current op amp design.

In the preferred embodiment the control system monitors the voltage current or a combination thereof for reflections resonations surges standing wave ratio combinations thereof etc. If for example a resonation is detected the control system may electrically float the third floating conductor which change the electrical characteristics of the transmissions line to attenuate the resonation. Likewise if the standing wave ratio is undesirable the control system may electrically ground or float the third floating conductor to selectively alter the line reactance of the transmission line thereby altering the standing wave ratio to desired levels.

In one alternate embodiment the control system comprise a display e.g. a liquid crystal display which displays to the user information such as voltage current or a combination thereof e.g. voltage current waveforms absolute average rms values etc. . Preferably the control system displays one or more alerts to the user of the presence of undesirable resonance standing wave ratio s etc. as the system alters the line reactance of the transmission line using one or more of the above described electromagnetic wraps to attenuate such undesirable resonance standing wave ratio s etc.

In a preferred embodiment the reflectometer is comprises a conductor positioned close enough to the transmission line such that energy passing through the transmission line is coupled to an output of the reflectometer which is connected to the control system for analysis.

The switch is preferably optically coupled to the control system . The control system uses the switch to electrically ground or electrically float the third floating conductor to change the reactive properties of the transmission line . In a preferred embodiment the switch is a switched electrically controlled by an optical receiver. The optical receiver is optically coupled to an electrical optical transistor electrically connected to the control system . This embodiment is preferable to avoid any electrical noise or surges from passing from the third floating conductor into the control system . In the alternative the reflectormeter may also be similarly optically coupled to the control system .

The third floating conductor contains one or more conductive patterns such as shown in and . Preferably the third floating conductor is designed to minimize the standing wave ratio of the power being transferred through the transmission line as it is electrically connected to earth ground by the switch controlled by the control system .

In one embodiment the floating conductor is a conductor wrapped completely around and running partially along the length of the transmission line . In this embodiment the control system grounds or floats the third floating conductor optimizing the line reactance of the transmission line depending on the conditions of the transmission line e.g. reflections load standing wave ratio etc. .

In another embodiment the floating conductor is a conductor wrapped comprising one or more of the electromagnetic wrap design creating the inductor design shown in the electromagnetic wrap design creating the capacitor designs shown in or a combination thereof. In this embodiment the control system grounds or floats the third floating conductor optimizing the line reactance of the transmission line depending on the conditions of the transmission line e.g. reflections load standing wave ratio etc. .

Preferably a plurality of the third floating conductor either having similar designs or different designs are positioned along the transmission line in order to optimize the line reactance of the transmission line depending on the conditions of the transmission line e.g. reflections load standing wave ratio etc. .

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of an electromagnetic wrap for dealing with line reactance. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of an electromagnetic wrap and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 11238 6.

