---

title: Method and apparatus for processing electronically stored information for electronic discovery
abstract: Method and apparatus for processing electronically stored information (ESI) for electronic discovery are described. In some examples, an electronic analysis of documents in the ESI indicated as being responsive to a search query of the ESI is performed. Results of the electronic analysis are stored in a database to provide a repository of case knowledge. Search parameters for at least one additional search query are generated automatically based on the case knowledge. The search parameters are provided as output.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08090705&OS=08090705&RS=08090705
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 08090705
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080915
---
The present invention relates generally to data processing. More particularly the present invention relates to a method and apparatus for processing electronically stored information for electronic discovery.

The discovery of material to be exchanged among parties as part of the discovery process during litigation can provide significant challenges particularly with respect to electronically stored information ESI . Court rules require parties to discover and exchange all responsive documents . Discovery of ESI is sometimes referred to as e Discovery . Searching ESI is challenging due to the use of natural language text private codes sub cultural differences in vocabulary spelling mistakes etc. Various search and retrieval techniques such as keyword searches Boolean searches and even fuzzy searches have proven to be severely inadequate due to the vague and imprecise for searching nature of the contents of the ESI. Information available during search query preparation is often inadequate e.g. unknown custodians keywords phrases code words important dates synonyms etc. which makes the task of creating a sufficiently inclusive search query difficult. This is despite the fact that the search queries and or keywords are often mutually agreed upon between opposing parties in a litigation e.g. during a Meet and Confer .

Search queries may result in a large number of false positives and or false negatives. False positives refer to irrelevant material that is nonetheless returned as a result to a search query that is not formed to retrieve such material. False negatives refer to relevant material that is not returned as a result to a search query that is formed to retrieve such material. False positives result in a high cost of recall and review of the returned material. False negatives result in responsive and relevant documents being un collected and un reviewed from various data sources. False negatives also force more time consuming iterations of the e Discovery process and can prevent parties from demonstrating reasonableness of efforts and expose them to varying levels of legal consequences by the Courts.

Accordingly there exists a need in the art for a method and apparatus for processing electronically stored information for electronic discovery that overcomes the aforementioned deficiencies.

Aspects of the invention relate to a method an apparatus and a computer readable medium for processing electronically stored information ESI for electronic discovery. In some embodiments an electronic analysis of documents in the ESI indicated as being responsive to a search query of the ESI is performed. Results of the electronic analysis are stored in a database to provide a repository of case knowledge. Search parameters for at least one additional search query are generated automatically based on the case knowledge. The search parameters are provided as output.

A method an apparatus and a computer readable medium for processing electronically stored information ESI for electronic discovery are described. In some embodiments an electronic analysis of documents in the ESI indicated as being responsive to a search query of the ESI is performed. Results of the electronic analysis are stored in a database to provide a repository of case knowledge. Search parameters for at least one additional search query are generated automatically based on the case knowledge. The search parameters are provided as output. Search queries can be generated and executed either automatically or manually. The generation and use of search parameters can be audited and reported. The generation use and execution of search queries can be audited and reported. These and further features are described below.

The data source s include electronically stored information ESI . The data source s may include one or more of data archives and backups stored on various storage devices e.g. hard disk drives compact discs CDs digital versatile discs DVDs FLASH memories tapes and the like data stored on computers e.g. desktop computers portable computers servers etc. data stored on other types of personal devices e.g. cell phones personal digital assistants PDAs portable storage units etc. and or any other source of electronic information known in the art. The ESI may include various types of documents such as data files electronic mail messages and or any other of the various types of electronic information known in the art.

The computer is configured with an electronic discovery module . In some embodiments the electronic discovery module comprises software configured for execution by the processor to cause the computer to perform a process for identifying information within the ESI relevant to electronic discovery e.g. responsive documents within the ESI . While the electronic discovery module is described as being software executed by the processor it is to be understood that the electronic discovery module may be implemented using hardware e.g. via an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or programmable logic device PLD or a combination of hardware and software. It is to be understood that the computer may generally represent one or more physically distinct computers such that the electronic discovery module may be distributed and executed across multiple physical computers.

In general operation a user e.g. a party to litigation or prospective litigation or a legal representative of such party interacts with the computer that implements the electronic discovery module using the input devices the output devices and or the display . For example the display may include a graphical user interface GUI to interact with the electronic discovery module to identify information in the ESI relevant to electronic discovery. For example the electronic discovery module may by invoked to identify responsive documents in the ESI identify information related to potential data sources of ESI identify potential types of ESI that may be relevant and the like as described below.

The automated ESI processor includes an interface a document analyzer a case knowledge repository a document monitor a reporting auditing module and a search builder The identification module the search module the case assessment module and the production module are configured for communication with the automated ESI processor via the interface . The document analyzer is configured to receive document information through the interface . The document information may be generated by the case assessment module . The document information may include information as to which documents in the ESI are indicated by the case assessment module as being responsive. For example the search module may perform one or more search queries on the ESI to generate potentially responsive documents. A user may designate one or more of the potentially responsive documents as being actually responsive via interaction with the case assessment module .

The document analyzer is configured to perform an electronic analysis of the document information . For example the document analyzer may identify attributes of the documents. The attributes may include 1 attributes related to one or more persons associated with the documents e.g. document authors document recipients etc. 2 attributes related to files including the documents e.g. creation date modification date etc. and or 3 attributes related to the text contents of the documents e.g. keywords topics conversations threads phrases etc. . The document analyzer may derive new attributes such as date range from creation modification date stemmed keywords counts of responsive documents per author etc by analyzing existing attributes. The document analyzer may be implemented using one or more software programs each of which may be either internal to the automated ESI processor or external to the automated ESI processor . The document analyzer is configured to store the results of the electronic analysis in the case knowledge repository .

In some embodiments the interface includes a graphical interface e.g. as part of the GUI to provides a visual mechanism for a user to analyze responsive documents and designate attributes to be stored in the case knowledge repository . For example the graphical interface may provide a visual mechanism for highlighting a code word phrase keyword or the like within the responsive documents. In some embodiments the graphical interface can facilitate one or more of three functions 1 The case knowledge repository can be used by a GUI of the case assessment module to visually highlight attributes e.g. keywords individual custodian names etc. that have also been found in documents previously identified as being responsive. 2 The user can be provided with a visual mechanism to select highlight keywords in the GUI of the case assessment module and add the keywords to the case knowledge repository . This allows large numbers of reviewers to provide search parameters back to the search module to create sufficiently inclusive iterative search queries. 3 The case knowledge repository can be used by a GUI of the search module during manual creation modification of search queries. Various attributes search parameters etc. stored in the case knowledge repository can be provided as a list of input options during manual creation modification of search queries. Various views timeline view social networking view etc. can be shown to the user to determine correct search parameters for manual creation modification of search queries.

In some embodiments the interface includes an application programming interface API . The API may be configured to provide an interface to the case knowledge repository . For example the document analyzer may be implemented using one or more programs e.g. external to the module or internal to the module . The program s of the document analyzer may receive use the document information as an input and perform electronic analysis on the document information . The program s of the document analyzer may access the case knowledge repository using the API to store the results of electronic analysis of responsive documents therein. As such the document analyzer is extensible in that any number of programs may be used to analyze responsive documents and obtain attributes for storage in the case knowledge repository using the API .

The case knowledge repository is configured to store case knowledge collected by the document analyzer and or attributes directly identified by reviewers using the document analyzer . In some embodiments the case knowledge repository implements a relational database. The case knowledge may comprise relations between the attributes collected by the document analyzer and documents in the ESI . The case knowledge repository may provide an extensible schema for storing the attributes and results of various analyses that may be performed on the attributes. Case knowledge that may be stored in the case knowledge repository may include but is not limited to authors of responsive documents recipients of responsive documents the number of responsive documents per author file creation modification dates for responsive documents conversation identifiers concepts from responsive documents e.g. subjects themes etc. lists of attributes identified for each of the responsive documents and derived attributes such as date range from creation modification dates stemmed keywords and the like. Various analyses that may be performed include but are not limited to time line analysis social networking analysis individual custodian person analysis conversation thread analysis and the like. The case knowledge repository may be stored in the memory of the computer or any other type of computer readable storage device s .

In some embodiments the interface provides access to the case knowledge repository for external programs via the API . For example program s of the identification module may use the API to query the case knowledge repository to obtain case knowledge . For example the identification module may query the case knowledge repository for all documents having a particular author or all documents having a particular file creation date or all documents with particular keyword s or any other of a myriad of possible queries for case knowledge. In some embodiments the graphical interface provides a visual interface of the case knowledge in the case knowledge repository to perform queries analyses and the like of the case knowledge. For example the identification module may use the graphical interface to perform queries or any of the analyses described above e.g. timeline analysis . Results of the queries analyses may be visually represented in various formats such as histograms reports social network diagrams showing communication patterns between custodians timeline diagrams showing communication frequency between various custodians a person view or any other of a myriad of possible formats. The identification module may use the case knowledge retrieved from the case knowledge repository to assist in discovering yet un discovered documents data sources custodians and the like all of which may be newly identified using the case knowledge from various data sources in .

In another example the search module may use the API to query and or analyze the case knowledge repository to obtain search data . The search data may include parameters that can be used to formulate search queries on the ESI . The search module may also use the graphical interface to perform queries and other analyses on the case knowledge repository to obtain the search data . The parameters in the search data may be used as training parameters to formulate particular search queries on the ESI to search and recall additional yet un collected ESI. While the identification module and the search module are provided as examples it is to be understood that any program or module may access the case knowledge repository via the API and or the graphical interface to obtain case knowledge for various uses to facilitate the discovery process.

The search builder is configured to automatically generate search parameters based on the case knowledge in the case knowledge repository . The automatically generated search parameters may be provided in the search data to the search module . The search data may be accessed by the search module using the API and or the graphical interface . The automatically generated search parameters may be used to form one or more additional queries on the ESI to locate additional potentially responsive documents. The search module can be configured to run the iteratively created search queries automatically. The search module can provide an option through the graphical interface to modify iteratively created search queries and run such queries manually. Additional responsive documents may then be analyzed as described above and the attributes thereof added to the case knowledge repository. The search builder may then produce additional search parameters which can be further used to generate search queries and the process repeated. In this manner the search builder facilitates successive searches of the ESI each accounting for updated information obtained from responsive documents. The automatically generated search parameters may be used as training parameters to form the additional queries. For example the automatically generated search parameters may include newly identified keywords newly identified custodians newly identified responsive documents newly identified user information such as credit card numbers social security numbers keywords with high frequency of occurrence or any other of a myriad of new information. The search data including the automatically generated search parameters may be graphically displayed using one or more visual representations on the graphical interface .

In some embodiments the automated ESI processor may include a document monitor . The document monitor may be configured to monitor potentially responsive documents produced by the search module via the interface . In some embodiments the document monitor may tag the potentially responsive documents with an indication that such documents should be held for litigation purposes i.e. a litigation hold . Such a litigation hold tag may ensure that such documents are not discarded or otherwise lost. The document monitor may perform such tagging automatically after each set of potentially responsive documents is produced by the search module . This can ensure that the documents are held even if a user has not finished analyzing and review the documents e.g. via the case assessment module to identify responsive documents.

The reporting auditing module is configured to monitor the use of case knowledge in the case knowledge repository by the identification module the search module search builder and or the case assessment module . The reporting auditing module can audit such use and provide reports indicating such use. For example the reporting auditing module can audit use of case knowledge by the identification module to identify new custodians data sources etc. The reporting auditing module can audit the use of case knowledge by the search module to collect possibly responsive yet un collected documents. Such auditing and reporting can allow parties to demonstrate reasonableness of efforts if required by Courts. That is the reporting auditing module can allow parties to demonstrate to the Courts and to opposing parties that such parties have searched beyond what was required or agreed upon e.g. during a Meet and Confer . Given such audits and reports a Court may decide to show leniency in case an opposing party is able to produce a document that was not returned as responsive during discovery e.g. the Court may not treat such an omission as an attempt to hide or tamper with the facts .

At step results of the electronic analysis are stored in a database to provide a repository of case knowledge. In some embodiments the database comprises a relational database. The case knowledge may include relations between the attributes and documents in the ESI. The database may be stored in the memory of the computer or any other type of computer readable storage device or devices.

At step search parameters are generated automatically based on the case knowledge for use in at least one search query. The search parameters may be automatically generated by the search builder as described above. At step the search parameters are output. The search parameters may be output via the interface described above. For example the responsive documents may be identified from an initial search query of the ESI and the electronic analysis thereof may yield case knowledge that is used to generate search parameters for at least one additional search query. The newly generated search query may be used to search and recall possibly responsive yet un collected documents from various data sources. Thus a feedback mechanism is provided whereby further possibly more relevant searches of the ESI may be performed based on analysis of previous results. At an optional step additional documents identified based on one or more search queries of the ESI may be automatically tagged with an indication that the additional documents should be held for litigation litigation hold . The litigation hold tagging may be performed by the document monitor as described above.

Aspects of the methods described above may be implemented as a program product for use with a computer system. Program s of the program product defines functions of embodiments and can be contained on a variety of computer readable media which include but are not limited to i information permanently stored on non writable storage media e.g. read only memory devices within a computer such as CD ROM or DVD ROM disks readable by a CD ROM drive or a DVD drive and ii alterable information stored on writable storage media e.g. floppy disks within a diskette drive or hard disk drive or read writable CD or read writable DVD . Such computer readable media when carrying computer readable instructions that direct functions of the invention represent embodiments of the invention.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

