---

title: Systems and methods for producing radar images
abstract: Systems and methods for producing radar images are provided. In illustrated embodiments, a representative system includes: a transmitter operative to transmit a pulsed signal; a receiver operative to sample the pulsed signal after reflection; a Doppler-shifting mechanism operative to create a Doppler shift in the pulsed signal; and a platform upon which the transmitter and the Doppler-shifting mechanism are mounted, the Doppler shift being associated with relative motion between the Doppler-shifting mechanism and the platform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07928901&OS=07928901&RS=07928901
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07928901
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081016
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

Synthetic Aperture Radar SAR is a system for producing high quality radar images with wide applications in remote sensing and mapping. SAR is used for such diverse functions as military imagery oil and mineral surveys and mapping the surfaces of planets. Modern SAR systems use the Doppler shift generated by the motion of a platform upon which the radar system is mounted such as an airplane or a satellite which sweeps the radar antenna over the terrain to be imaged to resolve objects in azimuth.

Ground based SAR systems use image reconstruction algorithms based on position. These systems typically require that the antenna be displaced in relation to the object that is being imaged in order to produce enough sampling locations to reconstruct an image. Such ground based SAR systems tend to exhibit various disadvantages such as only being able to operate by moving the antenna in a wide sweep over a relatively immobile target.

Systems and methods for producing radar images are provided. In this regard an exemplary embodiment of a system comprises a transmitter operative to transmit a pulsed signal a receiver operative to sample the pulsed signal after reflection a Doppler shifting mechanism operative to create a Doppler shift in the pulsed signal and a platform upon which the transmitter and the Doppler shifting mechanism are mounted the Doppler shift being associated with relative motion between the Doppler shifting mechanism and the platform.

An exemplary embodiment of a method comprises transmitting a Doppler shifted pulse receiving the Doppler shifted pulse as a reflection from a target analyzing the pulse received to generate a plurality of samples and correlating frequency responses of the plurality of samples with points on the target.

Another exemplary embodiment of a method comprises transmitting a Doppler shifted pulse receiving the Doppler shifted pulse as a terrain reflection analyzing the pulse received to generate a plurality of samples correlating the samples with range bins based on times received determining the frequency spectrum of for samples within the range bins and correlating the frequency spectra and the range bins with points on the terrain to produce an image of the terrain.

Other systems methods features and or advantages of this disclosure will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and or advantages be included within this description and be within the scope of the present disclosure. For functionality the mechanism for inducing the Doppler shift can be located on either the transmitting antenna the receiving antenna or both as would be the case if the antenna was used for transmission and reception.

Systems and methods for producing radar images are provided several exemplary embodiments of which will be described in detail. In this regard such systems and methods involve the use of Doppler shifting mechanisms. In some embodiments a high degree of resolution may be achieved as relative motion to produce a Doppler shift does not rely on motion of the transmitter and or receiver in a macro sense with respect to the target. That is in such an embodiment relative motion to produce a Doppler shift for enabling imaging can be isolated to the transmitter and or receiver.

In operation such as for the purpose of imaging a target a pulsed signal is transmitted from the transmitter with a Doppler shift being imparted to the pulsed signal by the Doppler shifting mechanism. In this embodiment the Doppler shift is created by relative motion between the Doppler shifting mechanism and the platform. Thus the pulsed signal contains velocity information in the form of the Doppler shift. Notably in some embodiments the platform may also exhibit relative motion with respect to the target such as those instances in which the platform is carried by a vehicle.

The pulsed signal reflects back from the target and is sampled at the receiver. Notably multiple samples corresponding to the reflected pulsed signal can be acquired with multiple ones of the samples containing different range information pertaining to the target. This is particularly the case when the antenna beam is broad and the pulse is capable of illuminating the entire target that is being imaged. These samples are then passed to the imaging unit for further processing as will be described later.

It should be noted that the embodiment of uses a separate transmitter and a separate receiver in contrast to a transceiver which can be used in other embodiments. The use of a separate transmitter and a separate receiver may be considered advantageous in some implementations.

In embodiments that incorporate rotating reflectors are depicted. Notably rotating reflectors reflect signals in the inertial reference frame of the portion of the reflecting surface that is illuminated by the transmitter. In this regard a rotating reflector of rotates about an axis . A transmitter receiver horn antenna transmits a beam towards a concave reflecting surface thereby illuminating a location . The concave reflecting surface shapes the beam in the direction perpendicular to the tangential radial velocity of rotating reflector upon reflection.

In contrast the partially illuminated dish antenna of rotates about an axis to produce a Doppler shift. Specifically a transceiver horn antenna transmits a beam onto a concave reflecting surface thereby illuminating a location . Location reflects and shapes the beam in a direction perpendicular to the tangential radial velocity of dish antenna .

The transmitter motion that is perpendicular to the direction of propagation determines the amount of Doppler shift and by extension the resolution of the radar. For the foregoing embodiments illustrated in B and C that include a rotating structure the motion that is normal to the direction of propagation is the tangential motion of the rotating structure and is a product of the angular velocity and the radius of the structure.

In an embodiment of a mechanism incorporating a vibrating structure is depicted. Transmitter antenna is mounted on the vibrating structure. The emitted pulses may be timed to coincide with peaks in the vibration of the structure. The receiver may be mounted on a separated non vibrating structure in order to continually sample the returns. This embodiment could potentially greatly reduce the size of the system as a velocity component that is dependent on the size of the structure is not utilized.

As shown in samples corresponding to a reflected pulsed signal are associated with range bins which are sorted based on the time received in block . Each range bin corresponds to a different respective distance from the receiver. The frequency spectrum of responses in each range bin is determined in block . By arranging these frequency responses in a radial map in block an image of the target is produced. The range bin gives the radial coordinate of the sample and the frequency response gives the azimuthal coordinate. This radial map can then be converted into a grid map by interpolation if this is desired by the user.

There are various computational algorithms that can determine the frequency response of reflected pulsed signals. By way of example a discrete Fourier transform DFT can be used. In this regard an analog signal frequency spectrum and the corresponding DFT are shown in and respectively. The frequency of the transmitted pulse along the zero line is the frequency of the transmitted pulse and the Doppler shifting mechanism applies no change in frequency along the zero line. Of note is the fact that the resolution is a function of the dwell time which could be arbitrary in some embodiments. Other algorithms may also be used.

Operation and resolution are explained in greater detail below with reference to various mathematical equations and examples corresponding to a representative system. System operation begins when a pulse that has been Doppler shifted by some mechanism for example one of the rotating mechanisms illustrated in or a vibrating mechanism similar to the mechanism illustrated in is transmitted from an antenna. The pulse now has a velocity component in the inertial reference frame of the surface of the Doppler shifting mechanism perpendicular to the direction of radar propagation. The pulse propagates to the target. The pulse reflects from the terrain being imaged. The pulse propagates to the receiver. The pulse is sampled at the receiver and passed into range bins based on the time received. Range bins with the same range are correlated between pulses to determine the frequency response of the range bin. There is a change in frequency of the reflected signal due to a Doppler shift which is given in equation 1 .

Three additional embodiments will now be described in detail a 20 GHz K band mine detection radar a 35 GHz Ka band surveillance radar and a less expensive persistent surveillance radar operating at 2.5 GHz.

The function of the mine detection radar is to detect land mines with a difference in dielectric from that of the surrounding soil. Due to the relatively high frequency the radar will only be able to detect mines at or near the surface but that is a mine s typical location during deployment. The radar would be more useful in dry soil than in moist soil. The radar s maximum range should be less than 200 m. A resolution of about 3 inches or 7.5 cm should be sufficient to determine the basic type of mine and discriminate between mines and rocks. Typically for an image to be interpreted by a human analyst the range resolution should be close to the cross range resolution to avoid a synthetic distortion. Using equation 6 and solving for pulse duration 

For Rof 7.5 cm should be 0.5 nanoseconds. For a similar cross range resolution the ability to discriminate between frequencies is 

For all of these examples it is assumed that the Doppler shift will be derived from a rotating structure. The rotating structure will have a diameter of 10 cm and rotate at 7200 rpm which is typical of a commercial hard drive. The Doppler velocity is the product of twice the radius pi and the rotations per second. Using equation 11 the calculated Doppler velocity is 37.7 m s. 2 rps radius 11 This leads to a f of approximately 1 Hz at a range of 200 m. Which using equation 12 would require a dwell time of about one second.

The same method may be used to determine the parameters for a surveillance radar operating at a frequency of 35 GHz. To detect and identify personnel and vehicles a resolution of a quarter of a meter may be desired. To achieve this resolution a pulse of the duration given by equation 13 can be used 

The persistent surveillance system at 2.5 GHz should have a resolution of one meter and should be able to look out to 300 m. This yields a pulse length of

The foregoing embodiments may also be implemented with a vibrating transmitter the basic principles of operation may be the same. The upper limit on the velocity used for inducing the Doppler shift in a vibrating structure is higher for the vibrating structure than the rotating structure.

The various embodiments of the system such as these described herein have many practical applications. The radar may be mounted on a platform that is either portable or stationary allowing for great flexibility of use. In contrast to scanning radar with high directivity which use complex phase shifters and multi emitting elements some embodiments may use a broad beam with a single transmitter and receiver making it simpler and less expensive. Since accuracy for Doppler systems is a function of frequency resolution and frequency resolution is a function of sampling time some embodiments could in theory provide arbitrarily fine azimuth resolution this will probably end up being only limited by noise. Multi axis image generation may be possible because the Doppler shift is being created as opposed to being a by product of the platform s motion. Certain embodiments may function without light or to see through smoke fog light vegetation or some walls. Suggested applications may include but are not limited to machine vision target acquisition targeting persistent surveillance mine detection reconnaissance and support for urban operations. Other suggested applications may include but are not limited to support to fire fighters machine vision security systems as well as locating survivors in collapsed structures. If an embodiment were to operate at a frequency that penetrates water the system could also be used for medical imagery.

Various functionality such as that described above in the flowcharts and or the functionality described with respect to computational algorithms can be implemented in hardware and or software. In this regard a computing device can be used to implement various functionality such as the imaging unit of element .

In terms of hardware architecture such a computing device can include a processor memory and one or more input and or output I O device interface s that are communicatively coupled via a local interface. The local interface can include for example but not limited to one or more buses and or other wired or wireless connections. The local interface may have additional elements which are omitted for simplicity such as controllers buffers caches drivers repeaters and receivers to enable communications. Further the local interface may include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications among the aforementioned components.

The processor may be a hardware device for executing software particularly software stored in memory. The processor can be a custom made or commercially available processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a specially programmed field programmable gate array FPGA a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the computing device a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set or generally any device for executing software instructions.

The memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM ARAM and so forth and or nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CD ROM and so forth . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory can also have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remotely from one another but can be accessed by the processor.

The software in the memory may include one or more separate programs each of which includes an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. A system component embodied as software may also be construed as a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When constructed as a source program the program is translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the memory.

The Input Output devices that may be coupled to system I O Interface s may include input devices for example but not limited to a keyboard mouse scanner microphone camera proximity device and so forth. Further the Input Output devices may also include output devices for example but not limited to a printer display and so forth. Finally the Input Output devices may further include devices that communicate both as inputs and outputs for instance but not limited to a modulator demodulator modem for accessing another device system or network a radio frequency RF or other transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router and so forth.

When the computing device is in operation the processor can be configured to execute software stored within the memory to communicate data to and from the memory and to generally control operations of the computing device pursuant to the software. Software in memory in whole or in part is read by the processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed.

One should note that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture functionality and operation of a possible implementation of software. In this regard each block can be interpreted to represent a step a module a segment and or a portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order and or not at all. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

One should note that any of the functionality described herein can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium contains stores communicates propagates and or transports the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of a computer readable medium include a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical .

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the accompanying claims.

