---

title: Methods for fabrication of thin film compositionally stratified multi-layer heterostructures for temperature insensitive low dielectric loss and enhanced tunability OTM communications devices
abstract: A compositionally stratified multi-layer BaSrTiO(BST) heterostructure material is described which includes a lower layer of crystallized BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.36-0.44, inclusive, deposited on a substrate; an intermediate layer of crystallized BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.23-0.27, inclusive, in contact with the lower layer; and an upper layer of crystallized BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x in the range of 0.08-0.13, inclusive, in contact with the intermediate layer. A phase shifter and/or preselector tunable device including a compositionally stratified multi-layer BST heterostructure material is described according to the present invention. Temperature sensitivity of an inventive phase shifter is reduced by at least 70% in the temperature interval of 20 to 90° C., inclusive, and by at least 14% in the temperature interval of −10 to 20° C., inclusive, compared to a compositionally homogeneous 60/40 BST material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08053027&OS=08053027&RS=08053027
owner: The United States of America as represented bt the Secretary of the Army
number: 08053027
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080604
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 950 041 filed Jul. 16 2007 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties therefore.

This invention relates generally to tunable device material for attaining temperature stable operation with enhanced tuning and low dielectric loss. More specifically the present invention relates to a compositionally stratified multi layered BaSrTiOmaterial apparatus incorporating the material and methods for fabrication and use thereof.

BaSrTiO BST in thin film form is an important material for utilization in tunable microwave devices such as filters and phase shifters. For these tunable microwave devices high dielectric tunability low microwave loss and good temperature stability are required for optimum performance and long term reliability. The current generation of tunable microwave phase shifter devices is based on single composition paraelectric BaSrTiOfilms and the military and commercial end users have expressed significant concern that in practical applications e.g. On The Move OTM phased array antennas the phase shifter performance will be compromised due to the temperature dependence of the device capacitance. Specifically the capacitance of the BST based device is strongly influenced by temperature changes because the dielectric constant of a single composition paraelectric BST films e.g. BaSrTiO follows the Curie Weiss law 1 where K is the dielectric constant Cis the curie constant T is the temperature and is the Curie temperature. Spurious changes in the device capacitance that stem from ambient temperature fluctuations will disrupt the phase shifter performance via device to device phase shift and or insertion loss variations leading to beam pointing errors and ultimately communication disruption and or failure in the ability to receive and transmit the information. The same is true for BST based tunable filters where the capacitance susceptibility to temperature changes results in the alteration of the band pass window sharpness window narrows or broadens or the entire band pass window may shift to higher or lower frequencies and or the insertion loss may be degraded. Such poor temperature stability of the capacitance would result in the carrier signal drifting in and out of resonance on hot and cold days.

Traditional approaches to address the issue of device phase shifter and or tunable filter temperature instability have focused on employing hermetic or robust packaging whereby the robust package serves to protect the tunable device from the harsh environmental extremes. Although this approach is successful hermetic robust packaging would add significant cost size and weight to these OTM phased array antennas which in turn violates the military and commercial sectors requirements for affordability. It is not foreseeable that such an approach could meet the criteria of a low cost phase shifter i.e. 5.00 per phase shifter element. Other concepts to achieve temperature stability compliance involve the use of system heat sinks and or cooling apparatuses such as mini fans and or temperature compensation circuits or mini ovens heating units . Such thermal management solutions fans heat sinks ovens and various other types of thermal management may be utilized with the OTM antennas however they will add extra weight size and cost to the overall system and as such are deemed unacceptable. Temperature compensation can also be achieved using either the 1 curve fit or 2 look up table approach. The curve fit approach centers on the formulation of a temperature dependant mathematical expression equation which represents the drift of each BST tunable device. A microprocessor utilizes this equation and the ambient temperature data obtained from a thermocouple mounted on the printed circuit board to calculate the tuning voltage. The look up table approach as its name implies involves using a look up table. In order to obtain the look up table coefficients the phase shifter characteristics must be measured at discrete temperatures then the BST bias voltage is manually adjusted to maintain the phase shifter specifications. In the worst case scenario one would have to obtain a set of points for each temperature i.e. 23 C. 24 C. etc. . Typically one would expect to have a small subset of temperature bias points for each bias line. The exact number of points is of course dependent on the BST devices the other phase shifter components and the phase shifter topology. Unfortunately this approach can be quite complex as there usually isn t a one size fits all solution. The calibrations are also labor and time intensive and are useful if only a limited number of OTM phased array antennas are to be fielded. Common place materials science approaches for reducing the temperature dependence of an active material have been to select the temperature interval of operation well above the temperature corresponding to the active materials permittivity maximum. Unfortunately this method results in reduced material tunability and the temperature coefficient of capacitance TCC is still too high for practical military applications such as OTM phased array antennas.

Thus the development of a temperature stable phase shifter filter technology capability is paramount as it ensures uninterrupted reliable information exchange via On The Move communications systems in harsh temperature environments.

Thus there is a continuing need for a temperature stable material that possesses low dielectric loss and high tunability particularly for use in phase shifting and or tunable preselector filter devices for communications systems as well as methods for fabrication of such temperature stable enhanced property materials.

A compositionally stratified perovskite oxide multilayer heterostructure material is provided according to the present invention which includes a lower layer of crystallized BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.36 0.44 inclusive deposited on a substrate an intermediate layer of crystallized BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.23 0.27 inclusive in contact with the lower layer and an upper layer of crystallized BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x in the range of 0.08 0.13 inclusive in contact with the intermediate layer. Each of the lower intermediate and upper layers includes crystallized BaSrTiOperovskite oxide having no preferred crystallographic orientation in preferred embodiments of the present invention. Each of the lower intermediate and upper layers is in the form of a thin film having a thickness in the range of about 10 nm 500 nm inclusive. Each of the lower intermediate and upper layers has a longest dimension generally parallel to the substrate and a thickness generally perpendicular to the substrate the longest dimension greater than the thickness.

A compositionally stratified perovskite oxide multilayer heterostructure material of the present invention has a dielectric constant lower than 500.

One or more electrical contacts such as an electrode is disposed between the substrate and the lower layer and or in contact with the upper layer.

The heterostructure material is effective to maintain a permittivity of less than 500 within the temperature interval of 10 to 90 C. inclusive. Further the heterostructure material is effective to reduce the dielectric loss by at least 50 over the temperature interval of 10 to 90 C. inclusive compared to a uniform composition BaSrTiOperovskite oxide.

An inventive heterostructure material is effective to elevate the dielectric tunability by at least 58 over the temperature interval of 10 to 90 C. inclusive compared to a uniform composition BaSrTiOperovskite oxide.

The substrate is a single crystal high resistivity silicon 100 material in a particular embodiment of the present invention.

An embodiment of a compositionally stratified BST multi layer heterostructure material of the present invention includes a lower layer which is crystallized BaSrTiOperovskite oxide on a substrate an intermediate layer which is crystallized BaSrTiOperovskite oxide and an upper layer which is crystallized BaSrTiOperovskite oxide.

A method of fabricating a compositionally stratified perovskite oxide multi layer heterostructure material is described herein including depositing BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.36 0.44 inclusive on a substrate crystallizing the BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.36 0.44 inclusive producing a lower layer depositing BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.23 0.27 inclusive onto the lower layer crystallizing the BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.23 0.27 inclusive producing an intermediate layer depositing BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x in the range of 0.08 0.13 inclusive onto the intermediate layer and crystallizing the BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x in the range of 0.08 0.13 inclusive producing an upper layer the upper layer having a bottom surface in contact with the intermediate layer and an opposing top surface.

Optionally a bottom electrode is disposed on the substrate prior to deposition of the lower layer. In a further option a top electrode is disposed in electrical communication with the top surface of the upper layer.

In a further option an adhesion material is disposed between the substrate and the bottom electrode. In a specific example a Ti layer is included as an adhesion material.

The crystallizing step includes thermal treatment at temperature of about 750 C. for about 60 min. in oxygen ambience in particular embodiments of a method of the present invention.

A vertical that is a parallel plate capacitor or varactor phase shifter device is provided according to embodiments of the present invention which includes the compositionally stratified perovskite oxide multilayer heterostructure material described herein. A coplanar phase shifter device is provided according to embodiments of the present invention which includes the compositionally stratified perovskite oxide multilayer heterostructure material described herein.

In a particular embodiment of the present invention a compositionally stratified perovskite oxide multilayer heterostructure material includes a lower layer of crystallized BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.36 0.44 inclusive deposited on a substrate an intermediate layer of crystallized BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.23 0.27 inclusive in contact with the lower layer and an upper layer of crystallized BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x in the range of 0.08 0.13 inclusive in contact with the intermediate layer with the proviso that no BaTiOlayer is disposed in contact with the upper layer.

A compositionally stratified BST multi layered heterostructure material is provided to mitigate the effect of ambient temperature on sensitive tunable communications device components such as phase shifters and pre selector tunable filter devices.

A compositionally stratified BST multi layered heterostructure material of the present invention is characterized by temperature stability over a broad temperature range 10 C. to 90 C. while simultaneously achieving enhanced tunability low loss and dielectric permittivity values less than 500.

A compositionally stratified perovskite oxide multilayer heterostructure material is provided according to the present invention which includes a lower layer of crystallized BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.36 0.44 inclusive deposited on a substrate an intermediate layer of crystallized BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.23 0.27 inclusive in contact with the lower layer and an upper layer of crystallized BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x in the range of 0.08 0.13 inclusive in contact with the intermediate layer.

In specific embodiments a compositionally stratified BaSrTiO BST heterostructure material according to the present invention includes a BaSrTiO BST 60 40 perovskite oxide layer disposed on a substrate support a BaSrTiO BST 75 25 perovskite oxide layer disposed on the BaSrTiO BST 60 40 perovskite oxide layer and a BaSrTiO BST 90 10 perovskite oxide layer disposed on the BST 75 25 perovskite oxide layer.

In specific embodiments of the present invention each BST perovskite oxide layer is in the form of a thin film having a nominal thickness in the range of about 10 nm to 500 nm inclusive more preferably in the range of about 50 nm to 250 nm inclusive. In specific examples of a compositionally stratified multi layered BST heterostructure described herein each layer is a thin film having a thickness of about 70 nm.

In preferred embodiments no BaTiOlayer is present in a compositionally stratified multi layered BST heterostructure of the present invention.

A substrate support may be single crystal low microwave loss substrate such as sapphire AlO MgO LaAlO GaAs CeO high resistivity Si quartz glass fused silica or similar support structures. Optionally the substrate is purified. An exemplary purification of a substrate includes dipping the substrate in acetone and methanol followed by a weak HF solution to remove etch native oxide and then rinsing in de ionized DI water. Optionally a thermal oxidation layer is grown on high resistivity silicon for use as a substrate in methods compositions and apparatus of the present invention.

Optionally an adhesive is disposed between the lower layer of crystallized BST perovskite oxide and the substrate to promote adhesion of an electrode to the substrate. For example an adhesion material includes a layer of Ti wherein the Ti layer is positioned adjacent to the substrate. An adhesion layer is disposed between a substrate and a bottom electrode such that the relative order of the layers is substrate adhesion layer bottom electrode lower layer of the crystallized BST perovskite oxide in particular embodiments of the present invention. The thickness of the adhesion layer can range from 2 40 nm preferably in the range of 5 20 nm and in a preferred embodiment the adhesion layer is 10 nm. Additional illustrative adhesion materials are Cr and Pd.

For example a layer of Ti Cr or Pd is optionally disposed between a substrate and an electrode such that the relative order of the layers is substrate Ti Cr or Pd adhesion layer bottom electrode lower layer of the crystallized BST perovskite oxide in particular embodiments of the present invention.

Generally each of the BST perovskite oxide layers of a heterostructure material of the present invention has a longest dimension generally parallel to the substrate and a thickness generally perpendicular to the substrate the longest dimension greater than the thickness.

Optionally one or more electrodes is disposed in electrical communication with the compositionally stratified multi layer BST perovskite oxide heterostructure material.

Configurations of the one or more electrodes depends on the intended configuration for use of the compositionally stratified multi layer BST perovskite oxide heterostructure material of the present invention. For example in particular embodiments of a parallel plate capacitor varactor device one or more bottom electrodes is disposed between a substrate support and the lower layer of the compositionally stratified multi layer BST heterostructure and one or more top electrodes is disposed on the top surface of the compositionally stratified multi layer BST heterostructure. Alternatively a co planar device configuration is provided having according to the present invention including a top electrode disposed in contact with the top surface of a compositionally stratified multi layer BST heterostructure disclosed herein. In particular embodiments an electrode including one or more noble metals is used such as a Pt electrode.

Tunable communications systems including on the move OTM phased array antennas and mobile radios include a component which is key to the proper function of these systems the phase shifter and preselector tunable filter respectively. The phase shifter filter performance is severely compromised in harsh temperature environments leading to severely impaired antenna radio performance. Specifically for phased array antenna systems the spurious changes in the device capacitance that stem from ambient temperature fluctuations disrupt the phase shifter performance via device to device phase shift and or insertion loss variations leading to beam pointing errors and ultimately communication disruption and or failure in the ability to receive and transmit information. Similarly for OTM radios such changes in the device capacitance leads to alteration of the band pass window sharpness whereby the window narrows or broadens and or the entire band pass window may shift to higher or lower frequencies and or the insertion loss may change all of which promote communication disruption. Thus a tunable device more specifically a phase shifter is provided according to the present invention which includes a compositionally stratified BST heterostructure material described herein. The compositionally stratified BST heterostructure material affords dielectric property temperature stability to the phase shifter and or preselector device structure exposed to ambient temperatures ranging from 10 to 90 C. Further the inventive compositionally stratified BST multi layer heterostructure material reduces susceptibility of undesirable dielectric property sensitivity in tunable communications devices.

Temperature susceptibility in tunable communications devices is quantified in terms of temperature coefficient of capacitance TCC . TCC is defined according to the equation TCC C C T where C is the change in capacitance with respect to Cat 20 C. and T is the change in temperature relative to 20 C. In a compositionally stratified BST multi layer heterostructure material of the present invention in the temperature interval from 20 to 90 C. the TCC 0.921 ppt C. such that the TCC value is lowered by 70 with respect to homogenous uniform composition of BST 60 40 a 3 1 change. Further in the temperature interval from 20 to 10 C. the TCC 0.716 ppt C. such that the TCC value is lowered by 14 with respect to the uniform BST60 40 composition.

A compositionally stratified BST multi layer heterostructure material of the present invention included in a phase shifter filter device incorporates advantages of a dielectric response of the compositionally stratified perovskite oxide BST materials as a function of temperature which exhibits characteristics of a diffuse phase transformation which is inherently linked with the distribution of the phase transformation temperature resulting from the composition gradient across the perovskite oxide material.

An inventive compositionally stratified BST multi layer heterostructure material included in a phase shifter filter device confers advantages of high tunability and low dielectric loss by grading the polarization and defect trapping at compositionally distinct interfaces respectively. Tunability defined as C Cwhere C is the change in capacitance relative to zero bias capacitance C is an important parameter and is a function of applied bias.

In particular embodiments of a phase shifter or tunable filter device including the compositionally stratified BST multi layer heterostructure material dielectric tunability is 65.5 at 444 kV cm. Specifically the tunability of a phase shifter or tunable filter device including a compositionally stratified BST multi layer heterostructure material of the present invention is increased by 56 with respect to that of MOSD fabricated homogenous composition BST60 40. The dielectric loss tan for the compositionally stratified BST multi layer heterostructure material is 0.01 and the permittivity is 360. The inventive material possesses a dielectric loss value that is at least 50 lower than that of homogenous uniform composition BST60 40 fabricated by the MOSD technique.

The enhanced elevated tunability at a low applied field shown by a compositionally stratified BST multi layer heterostructure material is an important result since in a phase shifter circuit higher tunability allows for fewer tuning elements which are cascaded to achieve the desired phase shifting. The decrease of the amount of tuning elements directly reduces the net circuit loss. The net decrease in amount of tuning elements lowers the system cost. Lower dielectric loss enhances or maximizes the systems communication signal in both transmit and receive modes.

The dielectric loss phase shifter insertion loss of inventive compositionally stratified BST multilayer heterostructure material exhibited negligible dispersion over the measured temperature range 10 to 90 C. FIG. A trace . This is an important result since in phase shifter devices the loss must be consistent or predictable to ensure antenna performance consistency and reliability with respect to variable temperature.

As shown in measured data graphed in over the temperature range of 10 to 90 C. tunability is not significantly modified i.e. the bias tunability trends are temperature independent. This result is significant as the voltage tunable phase shifter devices are expected to be operated in environments with different ambient temperatures with excellent reliability and accuracy.

In particular embodiments an inventive compositionally stratified multi layer BST heterostructure material is effective to sustain temperature stability over bias ranges of 0 to 444 kV cm in the range of about 10 kHz to about 30 GHz with a dissipation value less than 2 .

A method of fabricating a compositionally stratified multi layer BST heterostructure material is provided according to embodiments of the present invention which includes depositing BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.36 0.44 inclusive on a substrate crystallizing the BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.36 0.44 inclusive producing a lower layer depositing BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.23 0.27 inclusive onto the lower layer crystallizing the BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x is in the range of 0.23 0.27 inclusive producing an intermediate layer depositing BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x in the range of 0.08 0.13 inclusive onto the intermediate layer and crystallizing the BaSrTiOperovskite oxide where x in the range of 0.08 0.13 inclusive producing an upper layer the upper layer having a bottom surface in contact with the intermediate layer and an opposing top surface.

Deposition of the perovskite oxide thin film materials is by any of various deposition techniques illustratively including metalorganic solution deposition MOSD sputtering metal organic chemical vapor deposition MOCVD molecular beam epitaxy MBE and pulsed laser deposition PLD .

In a preferred embodiment deposition of the perovskite oxide thin film materials is achieved via the MOSD technique as shown schematically in . Barium acetate Ba CHCOOH dissolved in acetic acid strontium acetate Sr CHCOOH dissolved in acetic acid and titanium IV isopropoxide Ti CHO are precursors mixed in specified proportions to form a stoichiometric precursor solution which is then deposited to form the BST film layers. Glacial acetic acid and 2 methoxyethanol HCOOHCHOH are used as solvents. Particulates are removed from the solution by filtering through 0.2 m syringe filters. The viscosity and surface tension of the precursor solution may be adjusted using 2 methoxyethanol HCOOHCHOH .

A first BST stoichiometric precursor solution is deposited on a substrate support using the MOSD technique by spin on film coating in particular embodiments of the present invention. Following deposition pyrolysis is performed at a temperature and for a time sufficient to remove organic addenda. For example the deposited BST stoichiometric precursor solution is pyrolyzed at a temperature in the range of about 300 and 400 C. inclusive for a time in the range of about 10 30 min inclusive. Spin on film coating and pyrolysis is repeated until the desired film thickness is achieved . Subsequent to deposition and pyrolysis of a BST stoichiometric precursor solution crystallinity is achieved via post deposition annealing using a quartz tube furnace in a flowing oxygen ambience at a temperature in the range of about 700 to 1000 C. inclusive for a time in the range of about 30 minutes to several hours inclusive. Post deposition anneal is preferably preformed for each layer after pyrolysis. In preferred embodiments post deposition annealing is performed in a flowing oxygen ambience at a temperature in the range of about 725 to 775 C. inclusive for a time in the range of about 45 minutes to 75 minutes inclusive. In further preferred embodiments post deposition annealing is performed in a flowing oxygen ambience at a temperature of about 750 C. for about 60 minutes inclusive. Detection of annealing complete film crystallization is achieved for instance by film characterization via x ray diffraction. A fully annealed film is achieved where x ray spectra show good crystallinity that is the x ray peaks possess high intensity and good definition. An inventive method of fabrication for a compositionally stratified multi layer BST heterostructure allows compositionally distinct layers to be maintained without inter diffusion of the constituent elements between the individual layers.

Film thickness is measured by any of various techniques illustratively including Rutherford backscattering spectroscopy RBS cross sectional field emission scanning electron microscopy FESEM and cross sectional transmission electron microscopy X TEM .

A compositionally stratified multi layer BST heterostructure material of the present invention is integrated into a phase shifter and or preselector device. In a particular example of a temperature stable high tunability compositionally stratified multi layer BST material according to the present invention is integrated into a generic phase shifter device. For example a generic phase shifter device includes a varactor structure with a compositionally stratified multi layer BST heterostructure material of the present invention sandwiched between a top and bottom electrode such a device structure is based on a parallel plate capacitor configuration.

A phase shifter device including a compositionally stratified multi layer BST heterostructure material is described according to the present invention. Temperature sensitivity of an inventive phase shifter is reduced by at least 70 in the temperature interval of 20 to 90 C. inclusive and by at least 14 in the temperature interval of 10 20 C. inclusive compared to a compositionally homogeneous 60 40 BST material.

Three precursor solutions barium acetate Ba CHCOOH dissolved in acetic acid strontium acetate Sr CHCOOH dissolved in acetic acid and titanium IV isopropoxide Ti CHO are mixed to form stoichiometric precursor solutions BaSrTiO BST60 40 BaSrTiO BST75 25 and BaSrTiO BST 90 10 . Glacial acetic acid and 2 methoxyethanol HCOOHCHOH are used as solvents. Particulates are removed from the solution by filtering through 0.2 m syringe filters. The viscosity and surface tension of the precursor solutions are adjusted using 2 methoxyethanol HCOOHCHOH.

A single crystal high resistivity Si wafer underlying a SiOlayer a Ti adhesion layer and a 200 nm thick Pt bottom electrode is used as a substrate support in the following configuration Si wafer SiO Ti Pt in a particular example.

The BaSrTiO BST60 40 stoichiometric precursor solution is deposited by spin on film coating and then pyrolyzed at 350 C. for 10 min. The spin on film coating and pyrolysis at 350 C. for 10 min is repeated two more times to achieve a film thickness of 70 nm for the BaSrTiO BST60 40 layer deposited on the substrate support.

The BaSrTiO BST75 25 stoichiometric precursor solution is deposited by spin on film coating and then pyrolyzed at 350 C. for 10 min. The spin on film coating and pyrolysis at 350 C. for 10 min is repeated two more times to achieve a film thickness of 70 nm for the BaSrTiO BST75 25 layer deposited on the BaSrTiO BST60 40 layer.

The BaSrTiO BST90 10 stoichiometric precursor solution is deposited by spin on film coating and then pyrolyzed at 350 C. for 10 min. The spin on film coating and pyrolysis at 350 C. for 10 min is repeated two more times to achieve a film thickness of 70 nm for the BaSrTiO BST90 10 layer deposited on the BaSrTiO BST75 25 layer.

Subsequent to deposition and pyrolysis of the BST stoichiometric precursor solution crystallinity of the layer is achieved via post deposition annealing using a quartz tube furnace in a flowing oxygen ambience at 750 C. for 60 minutes. This is repeated for each compositionally distinct layer. Thus the compositionally stratified multi layer BST heterostructure material in this Example undergoes three post deposition anneals at 750 C. such that each distinct layer composition is fully crystallized prior to the deposition of the next BST stoichiometric precursor solution.

Surface morphology of the compositionally stratified BST multi layer heterostructure material of Example 1 is shown in . The parameter of film surface roughness is important since the dielectric properties are strongly influenced by the quality of the interface between the top electrode and the film. Film electrode interface roughness exacerbates the leakage characteristics thereby resulting in reliability and lifetime issues. The smooth defect free surface morphology observed for the BST heterostructure promotes intimate contact between the film and top electrode metallization resulting in low conductor loss and low leakage characteristics and hence is compliant with the systems specifications for ensuring long term reliability. The atomic force microscopy AFM images of the inventive compositionally stratified BST multi layer heterostructure material s top surface BST 90 10 demonstrate that the inventive compositionally stratified BST heterostructure possesses a uniform dense microstructure with out cracks pin holes or other surface defects and a uniform grain size of 80 nm. The surface roughness as quantified by AFM is found to be 3.479 nm which is within tunable device design specifications.

Cross sectional field emission scanning electron microscopy FESEM images of the inventive compositionally stratified BST multi layer heterostructure of Example 1 are shown in . The FESEM micrographs demonstrate that the compositionally stratified BST multilayer heterostructure possesses a dense well crystallized microstructure with a uniform cross sectional thickness of 225 nm. The multi layered films are polycrystalline and are composed of granular multi grains randomly distributed throughout the film thickness. The FESEM micrographs show a distinct structural delineation between the heterostructure and the Pt bottom electrode overlying the Ti adhesion layer and Si substrate and no amorphous layer or voiding defects is observed between the heterostructure and the bottom electrode . The FESEM images do not reveal the presence of visible internal interfaces throughout the thickness of the heterostructure i.e. the heterostructure appears homogenous lacking structural interface delineation of the internal compositional layers.

The RBS spectrum of the compositionally stratified BST multi layer heterostructure of Example 1 is shown in . In order to diminish the effect of the overlap of the different elements and to accurately interpret the spectra the RBS simulated model trace and trace is compared to data collected at angles both normal to the beam i.e. beam straight onto the sample and then tilted away from the detector at 60 trace . The RBS spectra is measured with a 1.2 MeV He ion beam. The simulated model is found to fit both the tilted and normal spectra thus the results are definite accurate and reliable. The RBS measured compositional gradients of the Ba and Sr elements in the multilayered films along the thickness direction confirm the compositional structure of the material since the compositional stratified BST multi layer heterostructure is found to consist of three distinct compositional layers namely BST63 37 BST78 22 and BST88 12. The RIBS results suggest that the individual layer post deposition anneal process protocol results in negligible interdiffusion within the multi layer heterostructure and shows that the heterostructure has three layers each with a distinct BST nominal composition.

The RBS characterization determined the combined multi layer heterostructure film thickness to be about 220 nm.

The room temperature dielectric response dielectric loss permittivity of the material possesses enhanced dielectric response with respect to uniform composition BST. Specifically the BST multilayer heterostructure exhibits a higher permittivity 360 and lower dissipation factor tan 0.012 with respect to that of the uniform composition BST60 40 film 176 tan 0.024 .

The higher permittivity in the multilayered BST heterostructure is due to the presence of the ferroelectric BST75 25 and BST90 10 layers which possess higher permittivity and higher tunability with respect to uniform composition paraelectric BST60 40. The dielectric response is further improved by electrostatic interactions between layers.

The dielectric loss value tan 0.012 of the inventive compositionally stratified BST multilayer heterostructure material of Example 1 is low and in fact is a lower loss value than the single composition BST60 40 films prepared by same method on the same substrate 0.024 . The lower loss of compositionally stratified BST multilayer heterostructure material with respect to uniform composition BST60 40 films results from the fact that the defects within the film are no longer mobile and are trapped at the compositionally distinct interfaces to compensate for the polarization difference between the layers. This defect trapping at the compositional interfaces immobilizes defects such that they do not reach the electrodes thereby allowing the film to possess an improved dielectric loss over films without this interface trapping mechanism i.e. films which are compositionally uniform and or continuously compositionally graded.

Device modeling results based on Zeland Software Inc. s IE3D full wave simulator utilizing a two layer stratified dielectric compositional BST thin film material demonstrated an improvement of 0.08 dB in insertion loss at Ka band.

The compositionally heterogeneous nature and the presence of internal stresses most likely play a significant role in improving the dielectric tunability of the inventive compositionally stratified BST multilayer heterostructure material with respect to that of the uniform composition BST60 40 film. This room temperature dielectric data suggest that the compositionally stratified BST multilayer heterostructure material holds significant benefits in terms of permittivity loss and tunability for tunable device elements as compared to uniform compositional BST60 40 thin films.

The higher tunability at a lower applied field of a compositionally stratified BST multilayer heterostructure material of the present invention is an important result since in a phase shifter circuit higher tunability allows for fewer tuning elements which are cascaded to achieve the desired phase shifting. The decrease of the amount of tuning elements directly reduces the net circuit loss. Also fewer tuning elements directly reduce the system cost.

A comparison of the temperature dependence of the dielectric response for the compositionally stratified BST multilayer heterostructure material of Example 1 and homogenous uniform composition paraelectric BST60 40 BST film is shown in respectively demonstrates that dissipation factor trace and the permittivity trace of the compositionally stratified EST multilayer heterostructure material exhibits minimal dispersion as a function of temperature ranging from 90 to 10 C. A compositionally stratified BST multilayer heterostructure of the present invention possesses a broader more flat diffuse dielectric response as a function of temperature traces and when compared to that of the uniform composition paraelectric BST60 40 films whereby trace is the dissipation factor and trace is the permittivity as a function of temperature. The temperature coefficient of capacitance TCC for the inventive compositionally stratified BST multilayer heterostructure described in Example 1 is low. The TCC is calculated from 10 to 20 C. via the equation TCC C C T where C is the change in capacitance with respect to Cat 20 C. and T is the change in temperature relative to 20 C. The compositionally stratified BST multilayer heterostructure of Example 1 exhibits a 6.4 decrease in permittivity as the temperature is elevated from 20 to 90 C. and only a 2.1 increase in permittivity as the temperature was lowered from 20 to 10 C. This small change in permittivity and low TCC value demonstrates that the inventive compositionally stratified BST multilayer heterostructure is temperature insensitive over the wide temperature range of 10 to 90 C.

The effective change in temperature coefficient of capacitance TCC for the inventive compositionally stratified BST multilayer heterostructure described in Example 1 with respect to uniform BST is significant i.e. from 20 to 90 C. TCC TCC 0.921 ppt C. was lowered by 70 with respect to the uniform composition 60 40 BST corresponding to a 3 1 change. Similarly from 20 to 10 C. the TCC value TCC 0.716 ppt C. of the multilayer BST film was lowered by 14 with respect to the uniform composition BST 60 40 film.

Theoretical modeling based on a thermodynamic analysis of compositionally graded ferroelectric materials and multilayer heterostructures is used to validate the experimental results for the compositionally stratified BST multilayer heterostructure material described herein. The thermodynamic formalism considers a single crystal compositionally graded ferroelectric bar. It basically integrates free energies of individual layers taking into consideration the energy due to the polarization spontaneous and induced electrostatic coupling between layers due to the polarization difference and the elastic interaction between layers that make up the graded heterostructure. The mechanical interaction arises from the electrostrictive coupling between the polarization and the self strain and consists of two components the biaxial elastic energy due to the variation of the self strain along the thickness and the energy associated with the bending of the ferroelectric due to the inhomogeneous elastic deformation. Based on this theory the temperature dependence of average dielectric response of compositionally stratified BST with the same nominal compositions BST60 40 to BST90 10 can be calculated using average thermodynamic expansion coefficients and elastic constants available in the literature as shown in trace . In comparison to a sharp peak of the dielectric permittivity at Tfor bulk homogenous ferroelectrics a diffused dielectric response with the temperature can be expected for compositionally stratified ferroelectrics as a result of the polarization grading and interlayer interactions. It is noted that this model is developed for bulk compositionally graded ferroelectrics however it is possible to extend it to thin films by incorporating the internal stresses due to thermal strains as well as the clamping effect of the substrate. While these factors tend to decrease the overall dielectric response compared to bulk graded structures the temperature dependence of the dielectric permittivity displays the same trend. The maximum in the dielectric permittivity is broadened over a wide range of temperature depending on the strength of the composition gradient as shown in . A steeper composition gradient e.g. BST100 0 to BST50 50 trace will give rise to a broader maximum vs. a shallow composition gradient BST80 20 to BST70 30 trace .

The temperature dependence of the dielectric tunability for the compositionally stratified BST multilayer heterostructure material of Example 1 is shown in . The measured data graphed in shows that over the temperature range of 10 to 90 C. the tunability is not significantly degraded. The bias tunability trends are temperature independent. Thus the multilayer BST material allows antenna phase shift to be temperature stable over the ambient temperature range of 10 to 90 C.

Any patents patent applications or publications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 950 041 filed Jul. 16 2007 is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Apparatus compositions and methods are described herein to illustrate the invention. It is therefore to be understood that the terminology used is intended to be in the nature of words of description rather than of limitation. As will be clear to those of skill in the art the various aspects of the present invention may be altered or combined in various ways other than those illustrated or discussed without departing from the scope or teachings of the present invention. It should be understood that the illustrated embodiments are provided for descriptive purposes and many variations are possible. Such changes and other uses can be made without departing frown the scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

