---

title: Biological markers predictive of anti-cancer response to kinase inhibitors
abstract: The present invention provides diagnostic and prognostic methods for predicting the effectiveness of treatment of a cancer patient with inhibitors of EGFR kinase, PDGFR kinase, or FGFR kinase. Based on the surprising discovery that tumors cells after having undergone an EMT, while being mesenchymal-like, still express characteristics of both epithelial and mesenchymal cells, and that such cells have altered sensitivity to inhibition by receptor protein-tyrosine kinase inhibitors, in that they have become relatively insensitive to EGFR kinase inhibitors, but have frequently acquired sensitivity to inhibitors of other receptor protein-tyrosine kinases such as PDGFR or FGFR, methods have been devised for determining levels of specific epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers that identify such “hybrid” tumor cells (e.g. determination of co-expression of vimentin and epithelial keratins), and thus predict the tumor's likely sensitivity to inhibitors of EGFR kinase, PDGFR kinase, or FGFR kinase. Improved methods for treating cancer patients with EGFR, PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitors that incorporate such methodology are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08377636&OS=08377636&RS=08377636
owner: OSI Pharmaceuticals, LLC
number: 08377636
owner_city: Farmingdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080414
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 923 463 filed Apr. 13 2007 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention is directed to methods for diagnosing and treating cancer patients. In particular the present invention is directed to methods for determining which patients will most benefit from treatment with inhibitors of receptor protein tyrosine kinases.

Cancer is a generic name for a wide range of cellular malignancies characterized by unregulated growth lack of differentiation and the ability to invade local tissues and metastasize. These neoplastic malignancies affect with various degrees of prevalence every tissue and organ in the body.

A multitude of therapeutic agents have been developed over the past few decades for the treatment of various types of cancer. The most commonly used types of anticancer agents include DNA alkylating agents e.g. cyclophosphamide ifosfamide antimetabolites e.g. methotrexate a folate antagonist and 5 fluorouracil a pyrimidine antagonist microtubule disrupters e.g. vincristine vinblastine paclitaxel DNA intercalators e.g. doxorubicin daunomycin cisplatin and hormone therapy e.g. tamoxifen flutamide .

The epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR family comprises four closely related receptors HER1 EGFR HER2 HER3 and HER4 involved in cellular responses such as differentiation and proliferation. Over expression of the EGFR kinase or its ligand TGF alpha is frequently associated with many cancers including breast lung colorectal ovarian renal cell bladder head and neck cancers glioblastomas and astrocytomas and is believed to contribute to the malignant growth of these tumors. A specific deletion mutation in the EGFR gene EGFRvIII has also been found to increase cellular tumorigenicity. Activation of EGFR stimulated signaling pathways promote multiple processes that are potentially cancer promoting e.g. proliferation angiogenesis cell motility and invasion decreased apoptosis and induction of drug resistance. Increased HER1 EGFR expression is frequently linked to advanced disease metastases and poor prognosis. For example in NSCLC and gastric cancer increased HER1 EGFR expression has been shown to correlate with a high metastatic rate poor tumor differentiation and increased tumor proliferation.

Mutations which activate the receptor s intrinsic protein tyrosine kinase activity and or increase downstream signaling have been observed in NSCLC and glioblastoma. However the role of mutations as a principle mechanism in conferring sensitivity to EGF receptor inhibitors for example erlotinib TARCEVA or gefitinib IRESSA has been controversial. Recently a mutant form of the full length EGF receptor has been reported to predict responsiveness to the EGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor gefitinib Paez J. G. et al. 2004 Science 304 1497 1500 Lynch T. J. et al. 2004 N. Engl. J. Med. 350 2129 2139 . Cell culture studies have shown that cell lines which express the mutant form of the EGF receptor i.e. H3255 were more sensitive to growth inhibition by the EGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor gefitinib and that much higher concentrations of gefitinib was required to inhibit the tumor cell lines expressing wild type EGF receptor. These observations suggests that specific mutant forms of the EGF receptor may reflect a greater sensitivity to EGF receptor inhibitors but do not identify a completely non responsive phenotype.

The development for use as anti tumor agents of compounds that directly inhibit the kinase activity of the EGFR as well as antibodies that reduce EGFR kinase activity by blocking EGFR activation are areas of intense research effort de Bono J. S. and Rowinsky E. K. 2002 Trends in Mol. Medicine. 8 S19 S26 Dancey J. and Sausville E. A. 2003 Nature Rev. Drug Discovery 2 92 313 . Several studies have demonstrated disclosed or suggested that some EGFR kinase inhibitors might improve tumor cell or neoplasia killing when used in combination with certain other anti cancer or chemotherapeutic agents or treatments e.g. Herbst R. S. et al. 2001 Expert Opin. Biol. Ther. 1 719 732 Solomon B. et al 2003 Int. J. Radiat. Oncol. Biol. Phys. 55 713 723 Krishnan S. et al. 2003 Frontiers in Bioscience 8 e1 13 Grunwald V. and Hidalgo M. 2003 J. Nat. Cancer Inst. 95 851 867 Seymour L. 2003 Current Opin. Investig. Drugs 4 6 658 666 Khalil M. Y. et al. 2003 Expert Rev. Anticancer Ther. 3 367 380 Bulgaru A. M. et al. 2003 Expert Rev. Anticancer Ther. 3 269 279 Dancey J. and Sausville E. A. 2003 Nature Rev. Drug Discovery 2 92 313 Ciardiello F. et al. 2000 Clin. Cancer Res. 6 2053 2063 and Patent Publication No US 2003 0157104 .

Erlotinib e.g. erlotinib HCl also known as TARCEVA or OSI 774 is an orally available inhibitor of EGFR kinase. In vitro erlotinib has demonstrated substantial inhibitory activity against EGFR kinase in a number of human tumor cell lines including colorectal and breast cancer Moyer J. D. et al. 1997 Cancer Res. 57 4838 and preclinical evaluation has demonstrated activity against a number of EGFR expressing human tumor xenografts Pollack V. A. et al 1999 J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 291 739 . More recently erlotinib has demonstrated promising activity in phase I and II trials in a number of indications including head and neck cancer Soulieres D. et al. 2004 J. Clin. Oncol. 22 77 NSCLC Perez Soler R et al. 2001 Proc. Am. Soc. Clin. Oncol. 20 310a abstract 1235 CRC Oza M. et al. 2003 Proc. Am. Soc. Clin. Oncol. 22 196a abstract 785 and MBC Winer E. et al. 2002 Breast Cancer Res. Treat. 76 5115a abstract 445 . In a phase III trial erlotinib monotherapy significantly prolonged survival delayed disease progression and delayed worsening of lung cancer related symptoms in patients with advanced treatment refractory NSCLC Shepherd F. et al. 2004 J. Clin. Oncology 22 14S July 15 Supplement Abstract 7022 . While most of the clinical trial data for erlotinib relate to its use in NSCLC preliminary results from phase I II studies have demonstrated promising activity for erlotinib and capecitabine erlotinib combination therapy in patients with wide range of human solid tumor types including CRC Oza M. et al. 2003 Proc. Am. Soc. Clin. Oncol. 22 196a abstract 785 and MBC Jones R. J. et al. 2003 Proc. Am. Soc. Clin. Oncol. 22 45a abstract 180 . In November 2004 the U.S. Food and Drug Administration FDA approved TARCEVA for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non small cell lung cancer NSCLC after failure of at least one prior chemotherapy regimen. TARCEVA is the only drug in the epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR class to demonstrate in a Phase III clinical trial an increase in survival in advanced NSCLC patients.

An anti neoplastic drug would ideally kill cancer cells selectively with a wide therapeutic index relative to its toxicity towards non malignant cells. It would also retain its efficacy against malignant cells even after prolonged exposure to the drug. Unfortunately none of the current chemotherapies possess such an ideal profile. Instead most possess very narrow therapeutic indexes. Furthermore cancerous cells exposed to slightly sub lethal concentrations of a chemotherapeutic agent will very often develop resistance to such an agent and quite often cross resistance to several other antineoplastic agents as well. Additionally for any given cancer type one frequently cannot predict which patient is likely to respond to a particular treatment even with newer gene targeted therapies such as EGFR kinase inhibitors thus necessitating considerable trial and error often at considerable risk and discomfort to the patient in order to find the most effective therapy.

Thus there is a need for more efficacious treatment for neoplasia and other proliferative disorders and for more effective means for determining which tumors will respond to which treatment. Strategies for enhancing the therapeutic efficacy of existing drugs have involved changes in the schedule for their administration and also their use in combination with other anticancer or biochemical modulating agents. Combination therapy is well known as a method that can result in greater efficacy and diminished side effects relative to the use of the therapeutically relevant dose of each agent alone. In some cases the efficacy of the drug combination is additive the efficacy of the combination is approximately equal to the sum of the effects of each drug alone but in other cases the effect is synergistic the efficacy of the combination is greater than the sum of the effects of each drug given alone .

Target specific therapeutic approaches such as erlotinib are generally associated with reduced toxicity compared with conventional cytotoxic agents and therefore lend themselves to use in combination regimens. Promising results have been observed in phase I II studies of erlotinib in combination with bevacizumab Mininberg E. D. et al. 2003 Proc. Am. Soc. Clin. Oncol. 22 627a abstract 2521 and gemcitabine Dragovich T. 2003 Proc. Am. Soc. Clin. Oncol. 22 223a abstract 895 . Recent data in NSCLC phase III trials have shown that first line erlotinib or gefitinib in combination with standard chemotherapy did not improve survival Gatzemeier U. 2004 Proc. Am. Soc. Clin. Oncol. 23 617 Abstract 7010 Herbst R. S. 2004 Proc. Am. Soc. Clin. Oncol. 23 617 Abstract 7011 Giaccone G. et al. 2004 J. Clin. Oncol. 22 777 Herbst R. et al. 2004 J. Clin. Oncol. 22 785 . However pancreatic cancer phase III trials have shown that first line erlotinib in combination with gemcitabine did improve survival OSI Pharmaceuticals Genentech Roche Pharmaceuticals Press Release Sep. 20 2004 .

Several groups have investigated potential biomarkers to predict a patient s response to EGFR inhibitors see for example PCT publications WO 2004 063709 WO 2005 017493 WO 2004 111273 WO 2004 071572 WO 2005 117553 and WO 2005 070020 and US published patent applications US 2005 0019785 and US 2004 0132097 . However no diagnostic or prognostic tests have yet emerged that can guide practicing physicians in the treatment of their patients with EGFR kinase inhibitors.

The fibroblast growth factor signaling cascade consists of four transmembrane tyrosine kinase receptors FGFR1 4 and at least 20 different ligands providing a very complex and context dependent signaling axis. Signaling through this receptor activates a number of important regulators of cell survival and proliferation including the MAP kinase and PI3K signaling pathways Omtiz D M. and Itoh N. 2001 Genome Biol. 2 3005 . There is a large body of data to indicate that FGFR signaling plays a role in cancer development and progression. FGF receptors are overexpressed in a number of different cancer cell lines derived from a variety of different solid tumors Chandler L A. et al. 1999 Int. J. Cancer 81 451 . Functional inhibition of this pathway in these cell lines by overexpression of dominant negative receptors Aoki T. et al. 2002 Int. J. Oncol. 21 629 or by siRNA or antisense knockdown approaches Estes Li N R. et al. 2006 Oncol. Rep. 15 1407 Yamada S M. et al. 1999 Glia 28 66 inhibited the growth and oncogenic potential of the tumor cells. Consistent with these in vitro observations immunohistochemical staining of tumor tissue sections has indicated high expression of FGF receptors in breast Wulfing P. et al. 2005 Br. J. Cancer 92 1720 prostate Giri D F. et al. 1999 Clin. Cancer Res. 5 1063 and NSCLC Volm M R. et al. 1997 Eur. J. Cancer 33 691 cancer patients. In addition high FGFR1 expression was shown to be a predictor of poor survival in NSCLC Volm M R. et al. 1997 Eur. J. Cancer 33 691 and pancreatic Ohta T. et al. 1995 Br. J. Cancer 72 824 cancer patients. In further support of these observations Muller Tudlow and colleagues observed that FGFR1 expression was one of the best predictors of poor survival in NSCLC when compared to a panel of 50 different receptor tyrosine kinases Muller Tidow C. et al. 2005 Cancer Res. 65 1778 . These observations are consistent with the potential role of FGF receptors in more advanced metastatic cancer.

In this context it is interesting to point out that FGFR signaling has been implicated in epithelial to mesenchymal transition EMT a process by which cancer cells become more invasive and begin to metastasize. FGF signaling is a key regulator of SNAIL and E cadherin levels in mouse development Ciruna B. and Rossant J. 2001 Dev. Cell 1 37 and has also been shown to induce EMT in tumor cells Valles A M et al. 1990 PNAS 87 1124 . FGF 2 in conjunction with TGF was shown to induce an EMT in tubular epithelial cells Strutz F. et al. 2002 Endocrinology 146 1145 . Of most interest a combination of FGF 2 and N cadherin expression increased the metastatic potential of the normally weakly metatstatic breast cancer cell line MCF7 Hazan R B. et al. 2000 J. Cell Biol. 148 779 . Taken as a whole these results indicate that FGFR signaling plays a key role in the progression of cancer potentially through its role in promoting EMT and as a consequence metatstasis of tumor cells.

The PDGF receptor signaling network consists of two receptors PDGFR and PDGFR which can homo or hetero dimerize and 4 ligands PDGF A D which also homo or hetero dimerise and differentially activate the different receptor dimers Pietras K. et al. 2003 Cancer Cell 3 439 . Ligand occupancy of these receptors results in the activation of a number of different intracellular signaling pathways including Ras and PI3K Yu J. et al. 2003 J. Biochem. Mol. Biol. 36 49 . Aberrant signaling by PDGFRs has been associated with cancer development and progression. Amplification of the PDGFR gene is associated with high grade gliomas Flemming T P. et al. 1992 Cancer Res. 52 4550 and gene fusions involving the PDGFR gene have been reported in chronic myelomonocytic leukemia CMML Golub T R. et al. 1994 Cell 77 307 . Activating point mutations and deletions in the PDGFR gene have also been reported in GIST patients Heinrich M C. et al. 2003 Science 299 708 . In addition increased autocrine PDGFR signaling through increased expression of PDGF ligand has been reported to be important in a number of glioma cell lines Shamah S M. et al. 1993 Mol. Cell. Biol. 13 7203 . Autocrine PDGFR has also been reported to be important in promoting progression and metastasis of tumors of epithelial origin such as ovarian Matei D. et al. 2006 Oncogene 25 2060 and mammary cancer Jechlinger M. et al. 2006 J. Clin. Invest. 116 1561 .

Although these lines evidence support a role for the PDGF receptors in primary tumor biology a key role for these receptors in cancer is in the regulation of the tumor microenviroment through paracrine signaling. PDGFRs are classically restricted to cells of a mesenchymal lineage and so are expressed in connective tissue fibroblasts. The expression of PDGF ligand from tumor cells acts as both a chemo attractant and a mitogen for PDGFR expressing stromal cells leading to primary tumor development and promotion of angiogenesis. For example the growth of a NSCLC cell line Calu6 in a xenograft setting was dependent upon tumor cell production of PDGF AA allowing recruitment of mouse stromal cells to support primary tumor growth Tejada M L. et al. 2006 Human Cancer Biol. 12 2676 . Further the potential importance of paracrine PDGFR signaling in advanced breast cancer was suggested by the observation that PDGF BB ligand expression was restricted to tumor epithelial cells whereas it was predominately the stromal cells adjacent to the tumor that expressed high levels of PDGF receptor Coltrera et al. 1995 . Therefore the paracrine signaling mediated by PDGFRs may be key in regulating the microenvironment to allow conditions supportive for primary tumor growth and the establishment of metastases at distant organ sites.

Another interesting and related aspect of PDGFR biology is that it has been implicated in EMT. Treatment of an epithelial colorectal cancer cell line HT29 with PDGF induced all the hallmarks of a full EMT Yang L. et al. 2006 Cell 127 139 . In addition mouse epithelial cells stimulated with TGF show a marked increase in expression of PDGFR PDGFR and PDGF AA. Signaling through this axis was crucial in maintaining the mesenchymal like phenotype Jechlinger M. et al. 2006 J. Clin. Invest. 116 1561 . Taken together these data indicate that PDGFR signaling either in an autocrine or paracrine fashion plays an important role in the development and progression of many different cancer types. These include the promotion of stromal cell recruitment and angiogenesis to provide a suitable tumor microenviroment and the stimulation and maintenance of EMT to promote tumor progression and metastasis.

During most cancer metastases an important change occurs in a tumor cell known as the epithelial mesenchymal transition EMT Thiery J. P. 2002 Nat. Rev. Cancer 2 442 454 Savagner P. 2001 Bioessays 23 912 923 Kang Y. and Massague J. 2004 Cell 118 277 279 Julien Grille S. et al. Cancer Research 63 2172 2178 Bates R. C. et al. 2003 Current Biology 13 1721 1727 Lu Z. et al. 2003 Cancer Cell. 4 6 499 515 . Epithelial cells which are bound together tightly and exhibit polarity give rise to mesenchymal cells which are held together more loosely exhibit a loss of polarity and have the ability to travel. These mesenchymal cells can spread into tissues surrounding the original tumor as well as separate from the tumor invade blood and lymph vessels and travel to new locations where they divide and form additional tumors. EMT does not occur in healthy cells except during embryogenesis. Under normal circumstances TGF acts as a growth inhibitor. However it is believed that during cancer metastasis TGF begins to promote EMT.

Thus there remains a critical need for improved methods for determining the best mode of treatment for any given cancer patient and for the incorporation of such determinations into more effective treatment regimens for cancer patients whether such inhibitors are used as single agents or combined with other anti cancer agents.

The present invention provides diagnostic and prognostic methods for predicting the effectiveness of treatment of a cancer patient with inhibitors of EGFR kinase PDGFR kinase or FGFR kinase. Based on the surprising discovery that tumors cells after having undergone an EMT while being mesenchymal like still express characteristics of both epithelial and mesenchymal cells and that such cells have altered sensitivity to inhibition by receptor protein tyrosine kinase inhibitors in that they have become relatively insensitive to EGFR kinase inhibitors but have frequently acquired sensitivity to inhibitors of other receptor protein tyrosine kinases such as PDGFR or FGFR methods have been devised for determining levels of specific epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers that identify such hybrid tumor cells and thus predict the tumor s likely sensitivity to inhibitors of EGFR kinase PDGFR kinase or FGFR kinase.

Accordingly the present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an EGFR kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by a tumor cell assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by a tumor cell and predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an EGFR kinase inhibitor wherein co expression of epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers at similar levels correlates with or is predictive of low sensitivity to inhibition by EGFR kinase inhibitors wherein the epithelial biomarker comprises one or more keratins selected from the epithelial keratins 1 28 and 71 80 and wherein the mesenchymal biomarker is vimentin. In one embodiment the epithelial keratin s are assessed using a method that will detect all or the majority i.e. 50 or more of the keratin biomarkers expressed by the tumor cell e.g. by using a multi or pan specific antibody . In another embodiment the epithelial biomarker comprises keratin 8 and or keratin 18.

The present invention also provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by a tumor cell assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by a tumor cell and predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor wherein co expression of epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers at similar levels correlates with or is predictive of high sensitivity to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor wherein the epithelial biomarker comprises one or more keratins selected from the epithelial keratins 1 28 and 71 80 and wherein the mesenchymal biomarker is vimentin. In one embodiment the epithelial keratin s are assessed using a method that will detect all or the majority i.e. 50 or more of the keratin biomarkers expressed by the tumor cell e.g. by using a multi or pan specific antibody . In another embodiment the epithelial biomarker comprises keratin 8 and or keratin 18.

Improved methods for treating cancer patients with EGFR PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitors that incorporate the above methodology are also provided. Thus the present invention further provides a method for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising the steps of diagnosing a patient s likely responsiveness to EGFR PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitors by predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by EGFR PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitors comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by a tumor cell assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by a tumor cell and predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by EGFR PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitors wherein co expression of epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers at similar levels correlates with or is predictive of low sensitivity to inhibition by EGFR kinase inhibitors and high sensitivity to inhibition by PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitors wherein the epithelial biomarker comprises one or more keratins selected from the epithelial keratins 1 28 and 71 80 and wherein the mesenchymal biomarker is vimentin and administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of an EGFR kinase inhibitor if high sensitivity to inhibition by EGFR kinase inhibitors is predicted or administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor if low sensitivity to inhibition by EGFR kinase inhibitors is predicted. In one embodiment of this method one or more additional anti cancer agents or treatments may be co administered simultaneously or sequentially with the EGFR PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor. The additional anti cancer agent or treatment may comprise an EGFR PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor or any of the other cytotoxic chemotherapeutic antihormonal anti angiogenic antiproliferative pro apoptotic anti HER2 radiation or a radiopharmaceutical signal transduction inhibitors or other anti cancer agents or treatments listed herein. In one embodiment of the above methods the epithelial keratin s are assessed using a method that will detect all or the majority i.e. 50 or more of the keratin biomarkers expressed by the tumor cell e.g. by using a multi or pan specific antibody . In another embodiment the epithelial biomarker comprises keratin 8 and or keratin 18.

The term cancer in an animal refers to the presence of cells possessing characteristics typical of cancer causing cells such as uncontrolled proliferation immortality metastatic potential rapid growth and proliferation rate and certain characteristic morphological features. Often cancer cells will be in the form of a tumor but such cells may exist alone within an animal or may circulate in the blood stream as independent cells such as leukemic cells.

 Abnormal cell growth as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to cell growth that is independent of normal regulatory mechanisms e.g. loss of contact inhibition . This includes the abnormal growth of 1 tumor cells tumors that proliferate by expressing a mutated tyrosine kinase or overexpression of a receptor tyrosine kinase 2 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant tyrosine kinase activation occurs 4 any tumors that proliferate by receptor tyrosine kinases 5 any tumors that proliferate by aberrant serine threonine kinase activation and 6 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant serine threonine kinase activation occurs.

The term treating as used herein unless otherwise indicated means reversing alleviating inhibiting the progress of or preventing either partially or completely the growth of tumors tumor metastases or other cancer causing or neoplastic cells in a patient. The term treatment as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to the act of treating.

The phrase a method of treating or its equivalent when applied to for example cancer refers to a procedure or course of action that is designed to reduce or eliminate the number of cancer cells in an animal or to alleviate the symptoms of a cancer. A method of treating cancer or another proliferative disorder does not necessarily mean that the cancer cells or other disorder will in fact be eliminated that the number of cells or disorder will in fact be reduced or that the symptoms of a cancer or other disorder will in fact be alleviated. Often a method of treating cancer will be performed even with a low likelihood of success but which given the medical history and estimated survival expectancy of an animal is nevertheless deemed an overall beneficial course of action.

The term therapeutically effective agent means a composition that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue system animal or human that is being sought by the researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician.

The term therapeutically effective amount or effective amount means the amount of the subject compound or combination that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue system animal or human that is being sought by the researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician.

As used herein the term platelet derived growth factor or PDGF refers to a member of a family of polypeptides that includes homo or heterodimers of A chain PDGF A and B chain PDGF B that exert their action via binding to and dimerization of two related receptor tyrosine kinases receptors PDGFR and receptors PDGFR . It also includes PDGF C and PDGF D two protease activated ligands for the PDGFR complexes that also function as dimers see Li et al. 2000 2 302 9 Bergsten et al. 2001 3 512 6 and Uutele et al. 2001 103 2242 47 .

As used herein the term PDGF receptor and PDGFR refers to cell surface PDGF binding proteins. Two proteins that bind PDGF with high affinity have been identified PDGFR and PDGFR Heldin et al. 1981 . 78 3664 Williams et al. 1981 . 79 5867 . Both species contain five immunoglobulin like extracellular domains a single transmembrane domain and an intracellular tyrosine kinase domain separated by a kinase insert domain and can form homo or hetero dimers on binding PDGF. Due to the different ligand binding specificities of the PDGFRs it is known that PDGFR binds PDGF AA PDGF BB PDGF AB and PDGF CC PDGFR binds PDGF BB and PDGF DD whereas PDGFR binds PDGF AB PDGF BB PDGF CC and PDGF DD see Betsholtz et al. 2001 23 494 507 .

As used herein the term fibroblast growth factor or FGF refers to a member of a family of polypeptides that are potent regulators of a variety of cellular processes including proliferation differentiation migration morphogenesis tissue maintenance and in wound healing and repair Clarke et al. 1993 J. Cell Sci. 106 121 133 Cuevas et al. 1988 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 156 611 618 Burgess W. H. and Maciag T 1989 Ann. Rev. Biochem. 58 575 606 Rifkin D. B. and Moscatelli D. 1989 J. Cell Biol. 109 1 6 . The FGF family currently includes at least 20 structurally and functionally related proteins including acidic and basic FGF FGF 1 and FGF 2 respectively int2 FGF 3 hst FGF 4 FGF 5 hst2 FGF 6 keratinocyte growth factor FGF 7 androgen induced growth factor FGF 8 glia activating factor FGF 9 FGF 10 19 Galzie Z. et al. 1997 Biochem. Cell. Biol. 75 669 685 Yamasaki M. et al. 1996 J. Biol. Chem. 271 15918 15921 Smallwood P. M. et al. 1996 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93 9850 9857 McWhirter J. R. et al. 1997 Development 124 3221 3232 Hoshikawa M. et al. 1998 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm. 244 187 191 Hu M. C. T. et al. 1998 Mol. Cell. Biol. 18 6063 6074 and Nishimura T. et al. 1999 Biochim. Biophy. Acta 1444 148 151 . Preferably the term FGF refers to acidic and basic FGF FGF 1 and FGF 2 respectively reviewed in Galzie Z. et al. 1997 Biochem. Cell. Biol. 75 669 685 and Burgess W. H. and Maciag T 1989 Ann. Rev. Biochem. 58 575 606 .

As used herein the term FGF receptor and FGFR refers to FGF binding polypeptides that possess intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity. There are currently four known genes encoding FGF receptors FGFR 1 FGFR 2 FGFR 3 and FGFR 4 which can give rise to a variety of protein isoforms via alternative RNA splicing Galzie Z. et al. 1997 Biochem. Cell. Biol. 75 669 685 . The structure of the FGFR consists of an extracellular region with three immunoglobulin like domains a transmembrane region and a cytosolic tyrosine kinase domain that is activated upon ligand binding. FGF binding causes dimerization of the receptors resulting in receptor autophosphorylation on tyrosine residues and the activation of intracellular signal transduction cascades.

The present invention provides diagnostic and prognostic methods for predicting the effectiveness of treatment of a cancer patient with inhibitors of EGFR kinase PDGFR kinase or FGFR kinase. The data presented in the Examples herein below demonstrate the surprising discovery that tumor cells such as NSCLC cells containing wild type EGFR after having undergone an EMT while being mesenchymal like still express characteristics of both epithelial and mesenchymal cells and that such cells have altered sensitivity to inhibition by receptor protein tyrosine kinase inhibitors in that they have become relatively insensitive to EGFR kinase inhibitors but have frequently acquired sensitivity to inhibitors of other receptor protein tyrosine kinases such as PDGFR or FGFR. Methods have been devised for determining levels of specific epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers that specifically identify such hybrid tumor cells and thus predict the tumor s likely sensitivity to inhibitors of EGFR kinase PDGFR kinase or FGFR kinase.

Accordingly the present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an EGFR kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by a tumor cell assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by a tumor cell and predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an EGFR kinase inhibitor wherein co expression of epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers at similar levels correlates with or is predictive of low sensitivity to inhibition by EGFR kinase inhibitors wherein the epithelial biomarker comprises one or more keratins selected from the epithelial keratins 1 28 and 71 80 and wherein the mesenchymal biomarker is vimentin. In one embodiment the epithelial keratin s are assessed using a method that will detect all or the majority i.e. 50 or more of the keratin biomarkers expressed by the tumor cell e.g. by using a multi or pan specific antibody . In another embodiment the epithelial biomarker comprises keratin 8 and or keratin 18.

When used in any of the methods of the invention described herein epithelial keratins 1 28 and 71 80 includes all the keratins listed in Table 1 herein.

The present invention also provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by a tumor cell assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by a tumor cell and predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor wherein co expression of epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers at similar levels correlates with or is predictive of high sensitivity to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor wherein the epithelial biomarker comprises one or more keratins selected from the epithelial keratins 1 28 and 71 80 and wherein the mesenchymal biomarker is vimentin. In one embodiment the epithelial keratin s are assessed using a method that will detect all or the majority i.e. 50 or more of the keratin biomarkers expressed by the tumor cell e.g. by using a multi or pan specific antibody . In another embodiment the epithelial biomarker comprises keratin 8 and or keratin 18.

The term co expression of epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers at similar levels as used herein means that the ratio of mesenchymal to epithelial biomarker levels is in the range of about 10 1 to about 1 10 assuming that each biomarker is assayed under comparable conditions e.g. using antibodies of identical affinity nucleic acid probes of identical length identical detection methods etc. .

The term a high ratio of mesenchymal to epithelial biomarkers as used herein means that the ratio of mesenchymal to epithelial biomarker levels is greater than about 20 1 assuming that each biomarker is assayed under comparable conditions e.g. using antibodies of identical affinity nucleic acid probes of identical length identical detection methods etc. .

Improved methods for treating cancer patients with EGFR PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitors that incorporate the above methodology are also provided. Thus the present invention further provides a method for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising the steps of diagnosing a patient s likely responsiveness to EGFR PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitors by predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by EGFR PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitors comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by a tumor cell assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by a tumor cell and predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by EGFR PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitors wherein co expression of epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers at similar levels correlates with or is predictive of low sensitivity to inhibition by EGFR kinase inhibitors and high sensitivity to inhibition by PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitors wherein the epithelial biomarker comprises one or more keratins selected from the epithelial keratins 1 28 and 71 80 and wherein the mesenchymal biomarker is vimentin and administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of an EGFR kinase inhibitor if high sensitivity to inhibition by EGFR kinase inhibitors is predicted or administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor if low sensitivity to inhibition by EGFR kinase inhibitors is predicted. In one embodiment of this method one or more additional anti cancer agents or treatments may be co administered simultaneously or sequentially with the EGFR PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor. The additional anti cancer agent or treatment may comprise an EGFR PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor or any of the other cytotoxic chemotherapeutic antihormonal anti angiogenic antiproliferative pro apoptotic anti HER2 radiation or a radiopharmaceutical signal transduction inhibitors or other anti cancer agents or treatments listed herein. In one embodiment of the above methods the epithelial keratin s are assessed using a method that will detect all or the majority i.e. 50 or more of the keratin biomarkers expressed by the tumor cell e.g. by using a multi or pan specific antibody . In another embodiment the epithelial biomarker comprises keratin 8 and or keratin 18.

One of skill in the medical arts particularly pertaining to the application of diagnostic tests and treatment with therapeutics will recognize that biological systems are somewhat variable and not always entirely predictable and thus many good diagnostic tests or therapeutics are occasionally ineffective. Thus it is ultimately up to the judgement of the attending physician to determine the most appropriate course of treatment for an individual patient based upon test results patient condition and history and his own experience. There may even be occasions for example when a physician will choose to treat a patient with an EGFR kinase inhibitor even when a tumor is not predicted to be particularly sensitive to EGFR kinase inhibitors based on data from diagnostic tests or from other criteria particularly if all or most of the other obvious treatment options have failed or if some synergy is anticipated when given with another treatment. The fact that the EGFR kinase inhibitors as a class of drugs are relatively well tolerated compared to many other anti cancer drugs such as more traditional chemotherapy or cytotoxic agents used in the treatment of cancer makes this a more viable option.

In the context of the methods of this invention biomarkers expressed by a tumor cell can include molecular and cellular markers that indicate the hybrid transition state of the tumor cell. In a preferred embodiment the biomarker is an individual marker protein or its encoding mRNA characteristic of this particular transition state of the tumor cell i.e. a tumor cell exhibiting epithelial and mesenchymal characteristics. In an alternative embodiment in certain circumstances the biomarker may be a characteristic morphological pattern produced in the tumor cell by cellular macromolecules that is characteristic of the hybrid cell mesenchymal like condition.

Table 1 lists the genes coding for examples of molecular biomarkers that can be used in the practice of the methods of the invention described herein. The molecular biomarkers can include any product expressed by these genes including variants thereof e.g. expressed mRNA or protein splice variants co and post translationally modified proteins polymorphic variants etc. In an additional embodiment the biomarker can be an animal homologue of the human gene product e.g. from dog mouse rat rabbit cat monkey ape etc. . N.B. Epithelial keratins or cytokeratins are intermediate filament keratins. The terms keratin and cytokeratin are used synonymously herein. When referring to specific keratins in the text herein the K in the standard keratin designation see Table 1 is generally dropped e.g. keratin K8 keratin 8 .

While co expression of particular epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers at similar levels is characteristic of mesenchymal like hybrid tumor cells after EMT e.g. keratins 8 and or 18 and vimentin certain other epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers in hybrid tumor cells are expressed at levels more characteristic of either epithelial or mesenchymal cell types. Thus assessment of the levels of these biomarkers in tumor cells from a patient can also be utilized for identifying mesenchymal like tumor cells that may have high sensitivity to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor. The present invention thus also provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by a tumor cell assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by a tumor cell and predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor wherein a high ratio of mesenchymal to epithelial biomarkers correlates with or is predictive of high sensitivity to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor. In one embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarker is E cadherin or catenin and the mesenchymal biomarker is fibronectin or vimentin. However unlike the methods disclosed above for predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor wherein co expression of particular epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers at similar levels correlates with or is predictive of high sensitivity to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor this method may not unambiguously identify tumor cells with such sensitivities since stromal cells may display a similar pattern of biomarker expression. Thus an additional evaluation of a test sample may be required to positively identify the cells as neoplastic or tumor cells.

Improved methods for treating cancer patients with PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitors that incorporate the above methodology are also provided. Thus the present invention further provides a method for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising the steps of diagnosing a patient s likely responsiveness to PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitors by predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitors comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by a tumor cell assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by a tumor cell predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor wherein a high ratio of mesenchymal to epithelial biomarkers correlates with or is predictive of high sensitivity to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor and administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor if high sensitivity to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor is predicted. In one embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarker is E cadherin or catenin and the mesenchymal biomarker is fibronectin or vimentin. In one embodiment of this method one or more additional anti cancer agents or treatments may be co administered simultaneously or sequentially with the PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor. The additional anti cancer agent or treatment may comprise an EGFR PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor or any of the other cytotoxic chemotherapeutic antihormonal anti angiogenic antiproliferative pro apoptotic anti HER2 radiation or a radiopharmaceutical signal transduction inhibitors or other anti cancer agents or treatments listed herein.

Examples of epithelial markers that can be used in the method above for predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor wherein a high ratio of mesenchymal to epithelial biomarkers correlates with or is predictive of high sensitivity to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor include E cadherin Brk catenin 1 catenin 2 catenin 3 catenin connexin 31 plakophilin 3 stratafin 1 laminin alpha 5 ST 14 phospho 14 3 3 epsilon 14 3 3 gamma KCIP 1 14 3 3 sigma Stratifin 14 3 3 zeta delta phospho serine threonine phosphatase 2A 4F2hc CD98 antigen adenine nucleotide translocator 2 annexin A3 ATP synthase beta chain phospho insulin receptor substrate p53 p54 Basigin CD147 antigen phospho CRK associated substrate p130Cas Bcl X phospho P cadherin phospho calmodulin CaM Calpain 2 catalytic subunit Cathepsin D Cofilin 1 Calpain small subunit 1 Catenin beta 1 Catenin delta 1 p120 catenin Cystatin B phospho DAZ associated protein 1 Carbonyl reductase NADPH Diaphanous related formin 1 DRF1 Desmoglein 2 Elongation factor 1 delta phospho p185erbB2 Ezrin p81 phospho focal adhesion kinase 1 phospho p94 FER c FER . Filamin B phospho GRB2 associated binding protein 1 Rho GDI alpha phospho GRB2 GRP 78 Glutathione S transferase P 3 hydroxyacyl CoA dehydrogenase HSP 90 alpha HSP70.1 eIF3 p110 eIF 4E Leukocyte elastase inhibitor Importin 4 Integrin alpha 6 Integrin beta 4 phospho Cytokeratin 17 Casein kinase I alpha Protein kinase C delta Pyruvate kinase isozymes M1 M2 phospho Erbin LIM and SH3 domain protein 1 LASP 1 4F21c CD98 light chain L lactate dehydrogenase A chain Galectin 3 Galectin 3 binding protein phospho LIN 7 homolog C MAP APC binding protein EB1 Maspin precursor Protease inhibitor 5 phospho Met tyrosine kinase HGF receptor Mixed lineage leukemia protein 2 Monocarboxylate transporter 4 phospho C Myc binding protein AMY 1 Myosin 9 Myosin light polypeptide 6 Nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase Niban like protein Meg 3 Ornithine aminotransferase phospho Occludin Ubiquitin thiolesterase PAF acetylhydrolase IB beta subunit phospho partitioning defective 3 PAR 3 phospho programmed cell death 6 interacting protein phospho Programmed cell death protein 6 Protein disulfide isomerase phospho plakophilin 2 phospho plakophilin 3 Protein phosphatase 1 Peroxiredoxin 5 Proteasome activator complex subunit 1 Prothymosin alpha Retinoic acid induced protein 3 phospho DNA repair protein REV1 Ribonuclease inhibitor RuvB like 1 S 100P S 100L Calcyclin S100C phospho Sec23A phospho Sec23B Lysosome membrane protein II LIMP II p60 Src phospho Amplaxin EMS1 SLP 2 Gamma synuclein Tumor calcium signal transducer 1 Tumor calcium signal transducer 2 Transgelin 2 Transaldolase Tubulin beta 2 chain Translationally controlled TCTP Tissue transglutaminase Transmembrane protein Tmp21 Ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 N UDP glucosyltransferase 1 phospho p61 Yes phospho Tight junction protein ZO 1 AHNAK Desmoyokin phospho ATP synthase beta chain phospho ATP synthase delta Cold shock domain protein E1 Desmoplakin III Plectin 1 phospho Nectin 2 CD112 antigen phospho p185 Ron and phospho SHC1. Where the epithelial biomarker is a phospho protein the extent of phosphorylation of the protein rather than the level of the protein per se is the parameter that is altered after EMT. The altered level of phosphorylation of these proteins is also understood to be due to changes in the level of phosphorylation of one or more tyrosine residues of the protein.

Examples of mesenchymal markers that can be used in the method above for predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor wherein a high ratio of mesenchymal to epithelial biomarkers correlates with or is predictive of high sensitivity to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor include vimentin fibronectin fibrillin 1 fibrillin 2 collagen alpha 2 IV collagen alpha 2 V LOXL1 nidogen C11orf9 tenascin N cadherin embryonal EDB fibronectin tubulin alpha 3 epimorphin MHC class I antigen A 1 Acyl CoA desaturase LANP like protein LANP L Annexin A6 ATP synthase gamma chain BAG family molecular chaperone regulator 2 phospho Bullous pemphigoid antigen phospho Protein C1orf77 CDK1 cdc2 phospho Clathrin heavy chain 1 Condensin complex subunit 1 3 2 trans enoyl CoA isomerase DEAH box protein 9 phospho Enhancer of rudimentary homolog phospho Fibrillarin GAPDH muscle GAPDH liver Synaptic glycoprotein SC2 phospho Histone H1.0 phospho Histone H1.2 phospho Histone H1.3 phospho Histone H1.4 phospho Histone H1.5 phospho Histone H1x phospho H1stone H2AFX phospho H1stone H2A.o phospho H1stone H2A.q phospho H1stone H2A.z phospho Histone H2Bj phospho Histone H2B.r phospho Histone H4 phospho HMG 17 like 3 phospho HMG 14 phospho HMG 17 phospho HMGI C phospho HMG I HMG Y phospho Thyroid receptor interacting protein 7 TRIP7 phospho hnRNP H3 hnRNP C1 C2 hnRNP F phospho hnRNP G eIF 5A NFAT 45 kDa Importin beta 3 cAMP dependent PK1a Lamin B1 Lamin A C phospho Laminin alpha 3 chain L lactate dehydrogenase B chain Galectin 1 phospho Fez1 Hyaluronan binding protein 1 phospho Microtubule actin crosslinking factor 1 Melanoma associated antigen 4 Matrin 3 Phosphate carrier protein Myosin 10 phospho N acylneuraminate cytidylyltransferase phospho NHP2 like protein 1 H ACA ribonucleoprotein subunit 1 Nucleolar phosphoprotein p130 phospho RNA binding protein Nova 2 Nucleophosmin NPM NADH ubiquinone oxidoreductase 39 kDa subunit phospho Polyadenylate binding protein 2 Prohibitin Prohibitin 2 Splicing factor Prp8 Polypyrimidine tract binding protein 1 Parathymosin Rab 2A phospho RNA binding protein Raly Putative RNA binding protein 3 phospho 60S ribosomal protein L23 hnRNP A0 hnRNP A2 B1 hnRNP A B U2 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein B phospho Ryanodine receptor 3 phospho Splicing factor 3A subunit 2 snRNP core protein D3 Nesprin 1 Tyrosine tRNA ligase phospho Tankyrase 1 BP Tubulin beta 3 Acetyl CoA acetyltransferase phospho bZIP enhancing factor BEF Aly REF Tho4 Ubiquitin Ubiquitin carboxyl terminal hydrolase 5 Ubiquinol cytochrome c reductase Vacuolar protein sorting 16 phospho Zinc finger protein 64 phospho AHNAK Desmoyokin ATP synthase beta chain ATP synthase delta chain phospho Cold shock domain protein E1 phospho Plectin 1 Nectin 2 CD112 antigen p185 Ron and SHC1. Where the mesenchymal biomarker is a phospho protein the extent of phosphorylation of the protein rather than the level of the protein per se is the parameter that is altered after EMT. The altered level of phosphorylation of these proteins is also understood to be due to changes in the level of phosphorylation of one or more tyrosine residues of the protein.

The above lists of epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers have been identified as being altered in expression level or phosphoylation level for phospho proteins after EMT see for example the US application which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 377 530 filed Mar. 16 2006 which was filed on the same day as the instant application and the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference US Published Application 2006 0211060 filed Mar. 16 2006 Thomson S. et al. 2005 Cancer Res. 65 20 9455 9462 and Yauch R. L. et al. 2005 Clin. Can. Res. 11 24 8686 8698 .

In the methods described herein the tumor cell will typically be from a patient diagnosed with cancer a precancerous condition or another form of abnormal cell growth and in need of treatment. The cancer may be lung cancer e.g. non small cell lung cancer NSCLC pancreatic cancer head and neck cancer gastric cancer breast cancer colon cancer ovarian cancer or any of a variety of other cancers described herein below. The cancer is preferably one known to be potentially treatable with an EGFR kinase inhibitor.

In the methods of this invention biomarker expression level can be assessed relative to a control molecule whose expression level remains constant throughout EMT or when comparing tumor cells expressing either epithelial or mesenchymal transition states as indicated by molecular biomarkers e.g. a housekeeping gene such as GAPDH actin tubulin or the like . Biomarker expression level can also be assessed relative to the other type of tumor cell biomarker i.e. epithelial compared to mesenchymal or to the biomarker level in non tumor cells of the same tissue or another cell or tissue source used as an assay reference.

In the methods of this invention the level of an epithelial or mesenchymal biomarker expressed by a tumor cell can be assessed by using any of the standard bioassay procedures known in the art for determination of the level of expression of a gene including for example ELISA RIA immunopreciptation immunoblotting immunofluorescence microscopy immunohistochemistry IHC RT PCR in situ hybridization cDNA microarray or the like as described in more detail below. In an embodiment of any of these methods their use is coupled with a method to isolate a particular cell population e.g. laser capture microdissection LCM .

In the methods of this invention the expression level of a tumor cell epithelial or mesenchymal biomarker is preferably assessed by assaying a tumor biopsy. In one embodiment the biopsy comprises samples taken from multiple areas of the tumor or a method e.g. core needle biopsy that samples different areas of the tumor thus ensuring that when the tumor is of a heterogeneous nature with respect to the types of cells it contains that a representative biopsy is obtained. In a preferred embodiment when the tumor is heterogeneous with respect to the types of cells it contains the diagnostic methods of the invention described herein for predicting tumor sensitivity to inhibitors are preferably applied separately to different cell types e.g. using IHC or an analysis method coupled with a step to isolate a particular cell population . However in an alternative embodiment expression level of the tumor cell biomarker can be assessed in bodily fluids or excretions containing detectable levels of biomarkers originating from the tumor or tumor cells. Bodily fluids or excretions useful in the present invention include blood urine saliva stool pleural fluid lymphatic fluid sputum ascites prostatic fluid cerebrospinal fluid CSF or any other bodily secretion or derivative thereof. By blood it is meant to include whole blood plasma serum or any derivative of blood. Assessment of tumor epithelial or mesenchymal biomarkers in such bodily fluids or excretions can sometimes be preferred in circumstances where an invasive sampling method is inappropriate or inconvenient.

In the methods of this invention the tumor cell can be a lung cancer tumor cell e.g. non small cell lung cancer NSCLC a pancreatic cancer tumor cell a breast cancer tumor cell a head and neck cancer tumor cell a gastric cancer tumor cell a colon cancer tumor cell an ovarian cancer tumor cell or a tumor cell from any of a variety of other cancers as described herein below. The tumor cell is preferably of a type known to or expected to express EGFR kinase as do all tumor cells from solid tumors. The EGFR kinase can be wild type or a mutant form.

In the methods of this invention the EGFR kinase inhibitor can be any EGFR kinase inhibitor as described herein below but is preferably 6 7 bis 2 methoxyethoxy 4 quinazolin 4 yl 3 ethynylphenyl amine also known as erlotinib OSI 774 or TARCEVA erlotinib HCl including pharmacologically acceptable salts or polymorphs thereof.

The present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor growth to inhibition by an EGFR kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor and predicting the sensitivity of tumor growth to inhibition by an EGFR kinase inhibitor wherein co expression of epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers at similar levels correlates with or is predictive of low sensitivity to inhibition by EGFR kinase inhibitors wherein the epithelial biomarker comprises one or more keratins selected from the epithelial keratins 1 28 and 71 80 and wherein the mesenchymal biomarker is vimentin. In one embodiment the epithelial keratin s are assessed using a method that will detect all or the majority i.e. 50 or more of the keratin biomarkers expressed by the tumor cell e.g. by using a multi or pan specific antibody . In another embodiment the epithelial biomarker comprises keratin 8 and or keratin 18.

The present invention also provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor growth to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor and predicting the sensitivity of tumor growth to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor wherein co expression of epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers at similar levels correlates with or is predictive of high sensitivity to inhibition by a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor wherein the epithelial biomarker comprises one or more keratins selected from the epithelial keratins 1 28 and 71 80 and wherein the mesenchymal biomarker is vimentin. In one embodiment the epithelial keratin s are assessed using a method that will detect all or the majority i.e. 50 or more of the keratin biomarkers expressed by the tumor cell e.g. by using a multi or pan specific antibody . In another embodiment the epithelial biomarker comprises keratin 8 and or keratin 18.

The present invention provides a method of predicting whether a cancer patient is afflicted with a tumor that will respond effectively to treatment with an EGFR kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor and predicting if the tumor will respond effectively to treatment with an EGFR kinase inhibitor wherein co expression of epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers at similar levels correlates with or is predictive of a tumor that may not respond effectively to treatment with an EGFR kinase inhibitor wherein the epithelial biomarker comprises one or more keratins selected from the epithelial keratins 1 28 and 71 80 and wherein the mesenchymal biomarker is vimentin. In one embodiment the epithelial keratin s are assessed using a method that will detect all or the majority i.e. 50 or more of the keratin biomarkers expressed by the tumor cell e.g. by using a multi or pan specific antibody . In another embodiment the epithelial biomarker comprises keratin 8 and or keratin 18.

The present invention provides a method of predicting whether a cancer patient is afflicted with a tumor that will respond effectively to treatment with a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor and predicting if the tumor will respond effectively to treatment with a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor wherein co expression of epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers at similar levels correlates with or is predictive of a tumor that may respond effectively to treatment with a PDGFR or FGFR kinase inhibitor wherein the epithelial biomarker comprises one or more keratins selected from the epithelial keratins 1 28 and 71 80 and wherein the mesenchymal biomarker is vimentin. In one embodiment the epithelial keratin s are assessed using a method that will detect all or the majority i.e. 50 or more of the keratin biomarkers expressed by the tumor cell e.g. by using a multi or pan specific antibody . In another embodiment the epithelial biomarker comprises keratin 8 and or keratin 18.

In any of the methods of this invention the tumor can be a lung cancer tumor e.g. non small cell lung cancer NSCLC a pancreatic cancer tumor a breast cancer tumor a head and neck cancer tumor a gastric cancer tumor a colon cancer tumor an ovarian cancer tumor or a tumor from any of a variety of other cancers as described herein below. The tumor is preferably of a type whose cells are known to or expected to express EGFR kinase as do all solid tumors. The EGFR kinase can be wild type or a mutant form.

The present invention provides a method of determining the likelihood that a patient with a tumor will gain survival benefit from therapy with an EGFR kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor and predicting if the tumor will respond effectively to treatment with an EGFR kinase inhibitor wherein co expression of epithelial and mesenchymal biomarkers at similar levels correlates with or is predictive of a tumor that may not respond effectively to treatment with an EGFR kinase inhibitor and thus being indicative that the patient may not gain significant survival benefit from therapy with an EGFR kinase inhibitor wherein the epithelial biomarker comprises one or more keratins selected from the epithelial keratins 1 28 and 71 80 and wherein the mesenchymal biomarker is vimentin. In one embodiment the epithelial keratin s are assessed using a method that will detect all or the majority i.e. 50 or more of the keratin biomarkers expressed by the tumor cell e.g. by using a multi or pan specific antibody . In another embodiment the epithelial biomarker comprises keratin 8 and or keratin 18.

For assessment of tumor cell epithelial or mesenchymal biomarker expression patient samples containing tumor cells or proteins or nucleic acids produced by these tumor cells may be used in the methods of the present invention. In these embodiments the level of expression of the biomarker can be assessed by assessing the amount e.g. absolute amount or concentration of the marker in a tumor cell sample e.g. a tumor biopsy obtained from a patient or other patient sample containing material derived from the tumor e.g. blood serum urine or other bodily fluids or excretions as described herein above . The cell sample can of course be subjected to a variety of well known post collection preparative and storage techniques e.g. nucleic acid and or protein extraction fixation storage freezing ultrafiltration concentration evaporation centrifugation etc. prior to assessing the amount of the marker in the sample. Likewise tumor biopsies may also be subjected to post collection preparative and storage techniques e.g. fixation.

In the methods of the invention one can detect expression of biomarker proteins having at least one portion which is displayed on the surface of tumor cells which express it. It is a simple matter for the skilled artisan to determine whether a marker protein or a portion thereof is exposed on the cell surface. For example immunological methods may be used to detect such proteins on whole cells or well known computer based sequence analysis methods may be used to predict the presence of at least one extracellular domain i.e. including both secreted proteins and proteins having at least one cell surface domain . Expression of a marker protein having at least one portion which is displayed on the surface of a cell which expresses it may be detected without necessarily lysing the tumor cell e.g. using a labeled antibody which binds specifically with a cell surface domain of the protein .

Expression of a biomarkers described in this invention may be assessed by any of a wide variety of well known methods for detecting expression of a transcribed nucleic acid or protein. Non limiting examples of such methods include immunological methods for detection of secreted cell surface cytoplasmic or nuclear proteins protein purification methods protein function or activity assays nucleic acid hybridization methods nucleic acid reverse transcription methods and nucleic acid amplification methods.

In one embodiment expression of a biomarker is assessed using an antibody e.g. a radio labeled chromophore labeled fluorophore labeled or enzyme labeled antibody an antibody derivative e.g. an antibody conjugated with a substrate or with the protein or ligand of a protein ligand pair e.g. biotin streptavidin or an antibody fragment e.g. a single chain antibody an isolated antibody hypervariable domain etc. which binds specifically with a biomarker protein or fragment thereof including a biomarker protein which has undergone either all or a portion of post translational modifications to which it is normally subjected in the tumor cell e.g. glycosylation phosphorylation methylation etc. .

In another embodiment expression of a biomarker is assessed by preparing mRNA cDNA i.e. a transcribed polynucleotide from cells in a patient sample and by hybridizing the mRNA cDNA with a reference polynucleotide which is a complement of a biomarker nucleic acid or a fragment thereof. cDNA can optionally be amplified using any of a variety of polymerase chain reaction methods prior to hybridization with the reference polynucleotide. Expression of one or more biomarkers can likewise be detected using quantitative PCR to assess the level of expression of the biomarker s . Alternatively any of the many known methods of detecting mutations or variants e.g. single nucleotide polymorphisms deletions etc. of a biomarker of the invention may be used to detect occurrence of a biomarker in a patient.

In a related embodiment a mixture of transcribed polynucleotides obtained from the sample is contacted with a substrate having fixed thereto a polynucleotide complementary to or homologous with at least a portion e.g. at least 7 10 15 20 25 30 40 50 100 500 or more nucleotide residues of a biomarker nucleic acid. If polynucleotides complementary to or homologous with are differentially detectable on the substrate e.g. detectable using different chromophores or fluorophores or fixed to different selected positions then the levels of expression of a plurality of biomarkers can be assessed simultaneously using a single substrate e.g. a gene chip microarray of polynucleotides fixed at selected positions . When a method of assessing biomarker expression is used which involves hybridization of one nucleic acid with another it is preferred that the hybridization be performed under stringent hybridization conditions.

When a plurality of biomarkers of the invention are used in the methods of the invention the level of expression of each biomarker in a patient sample can be compared with the normal level of expression of each of the plurality of biomarkers in non cancerous samples of the same type either in a single reaction mixture i.e. using reagents such as different fluorescent probes for each biomarker or in individual reaction mixtures corresponding to one or more of the biomarkers.

The level of expression of a biomarker in normal i.e. non cancerous human tissue can be assessed in a variety of ways. In one embodiment this normal level of expression is assessed by assessing the level of expression of the biomarker in a portion of cells which appears to be non cancerous and then comparing this normal level of expression with the level of expression in a portion of the tumor cells. Alternately and particularly as further information becomes available as a result of routine performance of the methods described herein population average values for normal expression of the biomarkers of the invention may be used. In other embodiments the normal level of expression of a biomarker may be determined by assessing expression of the biomarker in a patient sample obtained from a non cancer afflicted patient from a patient sample obtained from a patient before the suspected onset of cancer in the patient from archived patient samples and the like.

An exemplary method for detecting the presence or absence of a biomarker protein or nucleic acid in a biological sample involves obtaining a biological sample e.g. a tumor associated body fluid from a test subject and contacting the biological sample with a compound or an agent capable of detecting the polypeptide or nucleic acid e.g. mRNA genomic DNA or cDNA . The detection methods of the invention can thus be used to detect mRNA protein cDNA or genomic DNA for example in a biological sample in vitro as well as in vivo. For example in vitro techniques for detection of mRNA include Northern hybridizations and in situ hybridizations. In vitro techniques for detection of a biomarker protein include enzyme linked immunosorbent assays ELISAs Western blots immunoprecipitations and immunofluorescence. In vitro techniques for detection of genomic DNA include Southern hybridizations. In vivo techniques for detection of mRNA include polymerase chain reaction PCR Northern hybridizations and in situ hybridizations. Furthermore in vivo techniques for detection of a biomarker protein include introducing into a subject a labeled antibody directed against the protein or fragment thereof. For example the antibody can be labeled with a radioactive marker whose presence and location in a subject can be detected by standard imaging techniques.

A general principle of such diagnostic and prognostic assays involves preparing a sample or reaction mixture that may contain a biomarker and a probe under appropriate conditions and for a time sufficient to allow the biomarker and probe to interact and bind thus forming a complex that can be removed and or detected in the reaction mixture. These assays can be conducted in a variety of ways.

For example one method to conduct such an assay would involve anchoring the biomarker or probe onto a solid phase support also referred to as a substrate and detecting target biomarker probe complexes anchored on the solid phase at the end of the reaction. In one embodiment of such a method a sample from a subject which is to be assayed for presence and or concentration of biomarker can be anchored onto a carrier or solid phase support. In another embodiment the reverse situation is possible in which the probe can be anchored to a solid phase and a sample from a subject can be allowed to react as an unanchored component of the assay.

There are many established methods for anchoring assay components to a solid phase. These include without limitation biomarker or probe molecules which are immobilized through conjugation of biotin and streptavidin. Such biotinylated assay components can be prepared from biotin NHS N hydroxy succinimide using techniques known in the art e.g. biotinylation kit Pierce Chemicals Rockford Ill. and immobilized in the wells of streptavidin coated 96 well plates Pierce Chemical . In certain embodiments the surfaces with immobilized assay components can be prepared in advance and stored.

Other suitable carriers or solid phase supports for such assays include any material capable of binding the class of molecule to which the biomarker or probe belongs. Well known supports or carriers include but are not limited to glass polystyrene nylon polypropylene nylon polyethylene dextran amylases natural and modified celluloses polyacrylamides gabbros and magnetite.

In order to conduct assays with the above mentioned approaches the non immobilized component is added to the solid phase upon which the second component is anchored. After the reaction is complete uncomplexed components may be removed e.g. by washing under conditions such that any complexes formed will remain immobilized upon the solid phase. The detection of biomarker probe complexes anchored to the solid phase can be accomplished in a number of methods outlined herein.

In one embodiment the probe when it is the unanchored assay component can be labeled for the purpose of detection and readout of the assay either directly or indirectly with detectable labels discussed herein and which are well known to one skilled in the art.

It is also possible to directly detect biomarker probe complex formation without further manipulation or labeling of either component biomarker or probe for example by utilizing the technique of fluorescence energy transfer i.e. FET see for example Lakowicz et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 631 169 Stavrianopoulos et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 868 103 . A fluorophore label on the first donor molecule is selected such that upon excitation with incident light of appropriate wavelength its emitted fluorescent energy will be absorbed by a fluorescent label on a second acceptor molecule which in turn is able to fluoresce due to the absorbed energy. Alternately the donor protein molecule may simply utilize the natural fluorescent energy of tryptophan residues. Labels are chosen that emit different wavelengths of light such that the acceptor molecule label may be differentiated from that of the donor . Since the efficiency of energy transfer between the labels is related to the distance separating the molecules spatial relationships between the molecules can be assessed. In a situation in which binding occurs between the molecules the fluorescent emission of the acceptor molecule label in the assay should be maximal. An FET binding event can be conveniently measured through standard fluorometric detection means well known in the art e.g. using a fluorimeter .

In another embodiment determination of the ability of a probe to recognize a biomarker can be accomplished without labeling either assay component probe or biomarker by utilizing a technology such as real time Biomolecular Interaction Analysis BIA see e.g. Sjolander S and Urbaniczky C. 1991 Anal. Chem. 63 2338 2345 and Szabo et al. 1995 Curr. Opin. Struct. Biol. 5 699 705 . As used herein BIA or surface plasmon resonance is a technology for studying biospecific interactions in real time without labeling any of the interactants e.g. BIAcore . Changes in the mass at the binding surface indicative of a binding event result in alterations of the refractive index of light near the surface the optical phenomenon of surface plasmon resonance SPR resulting in a detectable signal which can be used as an indication of real time reactions between biological molecules.

Alternatively in another embodiment analogous diagnostic and prognostic assays can be conducted with biomarker and probe as solutes in a liquid phase. In such an assay the complexed biomarker and probe are separated from uncomplexed components by any of a number of standard techniques including but not limited to differential centrifugation chromatography electrophoresis and immunoprecipitation. In differential centrifugation biomarker probe complexes may be separated from uncomplexed assay components through a series of centrifugal steps due to the different sedimentation equilibria of complexes based on their different sizes and densities see for example Rivas G. and Minton A. P. 1993 Trends Biochem Sci. 18 8 284 7 . Standard chromatographic techniques may also be utilized to separate complexed molecules from uncomplexed ones. For example gel filtration chromatography separates molecules based on size and through the utilization of an appropriate gel filtration resin in a column format for example the relatively larger complex may be separated from the relatively smaller uncomplexed components. Similarly the relatively different charge properties of the biomarker probe complex as compared to the uncomplexed components may be exploited to differentiate the complex from uncomplexed components for example through the utilization of ion exchange chromatography resins. Such resins and chromatographic techniques are well known to one skilled in the art see e.g. Heegaard N. H. 1998 J. Mol. Recognit. Winter 11 1 6 141 8 Hage D. S. and Tweed S. A. J. Chromatogr B Biomed Sci Appl 1997 Oct. 10 699 1 2 499 525 . Gel electrophoresis may also be employed to separate complexed assay components from unbound components see e.g. Ausubel et al. ed. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley Sons New York 1987 1999 . In this technique protein or nucleic acid complexes are separated based on size or charge for example. In order to maintain the binding interaction during the electrophoretic process non denaturing gel matrix materials and conditions in the absence of reducing agent are typically preferred. Appropriate conditions to the particular assay and components thereof will be well known to one skilled in the art.

In a particular embodiment the level of biomarker mRNA can be determined both by in situ and by in vitro formats in a biological sample using methods known in the art. The term biological sample is intended to include tissues cells biological fluids and isolates thereof isolated from a subject as well as tissues cells and fluids present within a subject. Many expression detection methods use isolated RNA. For in vitro methods any RNA isolation technique that does not select against the isolation of mRNA can be utilized for the purification of RNA from tumor cells see e.g. Ausubel et al. ed. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley Sons New York 1987 1999 . Additionally large numbers of tissue samples can readily be processed using techniques well known to those of skill in the art such as for example the single step RNA isolation process of Chomczynski 1989 U.S. Pat. No. 4 843 155 .

The isolated mRNA can be used in hybridization or amplification assays that include but are not limited to Southern or Northern analyses polymerase chain reaction analyses and probe arrays. One preferred diagnostic method for the detection of mRNA levels involves contacting the isolated mRNA with a nucleic acid molecule probe that can hybridize to the mRNA encoded by the gene being detected. The nucleic acid probe can be for example a full length cDNA or a portion thereof such as an oligonucleotide of at least 7 15 30 50 100 250 or 500 nucleotides in length and sufficient to specifically hybridize under stringent conditions to a mRNA or genomic DNA encoding a biomarker of the present invention. Other suitable probes for use in the diagnostic assays of the invention are described herein. Hybridization of an mRNA with the probe indicates that the biomarker in question is being expressed.

In one format the mRNA is immobilized on a solid surface and contacted with a probe for example by running the isolated mRNA on an agarose gel and transferring the mRNA from the gel to a membrane such as nitrocellulose. In an alternative format the probe s are immobilized on a solid surface and the mRNA is contacted with the probe s for example in an Affymetrix gene chip array. A skilled artisan can readily adapt known mRNA detection methods for use in detecting the level of mRNA encoded by the biomarkers of the present invention.

An alternative method for determining the level of mRNA biomarker in a sample involves the process of nucleic acid amplification e.g. by RT PCR the experimental embodiment set forth in Mullis 1987 U.S. Pat. No. 4 683 202 ligase chain reaction Barany 1991 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88 189 193 self sustained sequence replication Guatelli et al. 1990 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87 1874 1878 transcriptional amplification system Kwoh et al. 1989 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86 1173 1177 Q Beta Replicase Lizardi et al. 1988 Bio Technology 6 1197 rolling circle replication Lizardi et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 854 033 or any other nucleic acid amplification method followed by the detection of the amplified molecules using techniques well known to those of skill in the art. These detection schemes are especially useful for the detection of nucleic acid molecules if such molecules are present in very low numbers. As used herein amplification primers are defined as being a pair of nucleic acid molecules that can anneal to 5 or 3 regions of a gene plus and minus strands respectively or vice versa and contain a short region in between. In general amplification primers are from about 10 to 30 nucleotides in length and flank a region from about 50 to 200 nucleotides in length. Under appropriate conditions and with appropriate reagents such primers permit the amplification of a nucleic acid molecule comprising the nucleotide sequence flanked by the primers.

For in situ methods mRNA does not need to be isolated from the tumor cells prior to detection. In such methods a cell or tissue sample is prepared processed using known histological methods. The sample is then immobilized on a support typically a glass slide and then contacted with a probe that can hybridize to mRNA that encodes the biomarker.

As an alternative to making determinations based on the absolute expression level of the biomarker determinations may be based on the normalized expression level of the biomarker. Expression levels are normalized by correcting the absolute expression level of a biomarker by comparing its expression to the expression of a gene that is not a biomarker e.g. a housekeeping gene that is constitutively expressed. Suitable genes for normalization include housekeeping genes such as the actin gene or epithelial cell specific genes. This normalization allows the comparison of the expression level in one sample e.g. a patient sample to another sample e.g. a non tumor sample or between samples from different sources.

Alternatively the expression level can be provided as a relative expression level. To determine a relative expression level of a biomarker e.g. a mesenchymal biomarker the level of expression of the biomarker is determined for 10 or more samples of normal versus cancer cell isolates preferably 50 or more samples prior to the determination of the expression level for the sample in question. The mean expression level of each of the genes assayed in the larger number of samples is determined and this is used as a baseline expression level for the biomarker. The expression level of the biomarker determined for the test sample absolute level of expression is then divided by the mean expression value obtained for that biomarker. This provides a relative expression level.

In another embodiment of the present invention a biomarker protein is detected. A preferred agent for detecting biomarker protein of the invention is an antibody capable of binding to such a protein or a fragment thereof preferably an antibody with a detectable label. Antibodies can be polyclonal or more preferably monoclonal. An intact antibody or a fragment or derivative thereof e.g. Fab or F ab .sub.2 can be used. The term labeled with regard to the probe or antibody is intended to encompass direct labeling of the probe or antibody by coupling i.e. physically linking a detectable substance to the probe or antibody as well as indirect labeling of the probe or antibody by reactivity with another reagent that is directly labeled. Examples of indirect labeling include detection of a primary antibody using a fluorescently labeled secondary antibody and end labeling of a DNA probe with biotin such that it can be detected with fluorescently labeled streptavidin.

Proteins from tumor cells can be isolated using techniques that are well known to those of skill in the art. The protein isolation methods employed can for example be such as those described in Harlow and Lane Harlow and Lane 1988 Antibodies A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. .

A variety of formats can be employed to determine whether a sample contains a protein that binds to a given antibody. Examples of such formats include but are not limited to enzyme immunoassay EIA radioimmunoassay RIA Western blot analysis and enzyme linked immunoabsorbant assay ELISA . A skilled artisan can readily adapt known protein antibody detection methods for use in determining whether tumor cells express a biomarker of the present invention.

In one format antibodies or antibody fragments or derivatives can be used in methods such as Western blots or immunofluorescence techniques to detect the expressed proteins. In such uses it is generally preferable to immobilize either the antibody or proteins on a solid support. Suitable solid phase supports or carriers include any support capable of binding an antigen or an antibody. Well known supports or carriers include glass polystyrene polypropylene polyethylene dextran nylon amylases natural and modified celluloses polyacrylamides gabbros and magnetite.

One skilled in the art will know many other suitable carriers for binding antibody or antigen and will be able to adapt such support for use with the present invention. For example protein isolated from tumor cells can be run on a polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immobilized onto a solid phase support such as nitrocellulose. The support can then be washed with suitable buffers followed by treatment with the detectably labeled antibody. The solid phase support can then be washed with the buffer a second time to remove unbound antibody. The amount of bound label on the solid support can then be detected by conventional means.

For ELISA assays specific binding pairs can be of the immune or non immune type. Immune specific binding pairs are exemplified by antigen antibody systems or hapten anti hapten systems. There can be mentioned fluorescein anti fluorescein dinitrophenyl anti dinitrophenyl biotin anti biotin peptide anti peptide and the like. The antibody member of the specific binding pair can be produced by customary methods familiar to those skilled in the art. Such methods involve immunizing an animal with the antigen member of the specific binding pair. If the antigen member of the specific binding pair is not immunogenic e.g. a hapten it can be covalently coupled to a carrier protein to render it immunogenic. Non immune binding pairs include systems wherein the two components share a natural affinity for each other but are not antibodies. Exemplary non immune pairs are biotin streptavidin intrinsic factor vitamin B folic acid folate binding protein and the like.

A variety of methods are available to covalently label antibodies with members of specific binding pairs. Methods are selected based upon the nature of the member of the specific binding pair the type of linkage desired and the tolerance of the antibody to various conjugation chemistries. Biotin can be covalently coupled to antibodies by utilizing commercially available active derivatives. Some of these are biotin N hydroxy succinimide which binds to amine groups on proteins biotin hydrazide which binds to carbohydrate moieties aldehydes and carboxyl groups via a carbodiimide coupling and biotin maleimide and iodoacetyl biotin which bind to sulfhydryl groups. Fluorescein can be coupled to protein amine groups using fluorescein isothiocyanate. Dinitrophenyl groups can be coupled to protein amine groups using 2 4 dinitrobenzene sulfate or 2 4 dinitrofluorobenzene. Other standard methods of conjugation can be employed to couple monoclonal antibodies to a member of a specific binding pair including dialdehyde carbodiimide coupling homofunctional crosslinking and heterobifunctional crosslinking. Carbodiimide coupling is an effective method of coupling carboxyl groups on one substance to amine groups on another. Carbodiimide coupling is facilitated by using the commercially available reagent 1 ethyl 3 dimethyl aminopropyl carbodiimide EDAC .

Homobifunctional crosslinkers including the bifunctional imidoesters and bifunctional N hydroxysuccinimide esters are commercially available and are employed for coupling amine groups on one substance to amine groups on another. Heterobifunctional crosslinkers are reagents which possess different functional groups. The most common commercially available heterobifunctional crosslinkers have an amine reactive N hydroxysuccinimide ester as one functional group and a sulfhydryl reactive group as the second functional group. The most common sulfhydryl reactive groups are maleimides pyridyl disulfides and active halogens. One of the functional groups can be a photoactive aryl nitrene which upon irradiation reacts with a variety of groups.

The detectably labeled antibody or detectably labeled member of the specific binding pair is prepared by coupling to a reporter which can be a radioactive isotope enzyme fluorogenic chemiluminescent or electrochemical materials. Two commonly used radioactive isotopes are I and H. Standard radioactive isotopic labeling procedures include the chloramine T lactoperoxidase and Bolton Hunter methods for I and reductive methylation for H. The term detectably labeled refers to a molecule labeled in such a way that it can be readily detected by the intrinsic enzymic activity of the label or by the binding to the label of another component which can itself be readily detected.

Enzymes suitable for use in this invention include but are not limited to horseradish peroxidase alkaline phosphatase galactosidase glucose oxidase luciferases including firefly and renilla lactamase urease green fluorescent protein GFP and lysozyme. Enzyme labeling is facilitated by using dialdehyde carbodiimide coupling homobifunctional crosslinkers and heterobifunctional crosslinkers as described above for coupling an antibody with a member of a specific binding pair.

The labeling method chosen depends on the functional groups available on the enzyme and the material to be labeled and the tolerance of both to the conjugation conditions. The labeling method used in the present invention can be one of but not limited to any conventional methods currently employed including those described by Engvall and Pearlmann Immunochemistry 8 871 1971 Avrameas and Ternynck Immunochemistry 8 1175 1975 Ishikawa et al. J. Immunoassay 4 3 209 327 1983 and Jablonski Anal. Biochem. 148 199 1985 .

Labeling can be accomplished by indirect methods such as using spacers or other members of specific binding pairs. An example of this is the detection of a biotinylated antibody with unlabeled streptavidin and biotinylated enzyme with streptavidin and biotinylated enzyme being added either sequentially or simultaneously. Thus according to the present invention the antibody used to detect can be detectably labeled directly with a reporter or indirectly with a first member of a specific binding pair. When the antibody is coupled to a first member of a specific binding pair then detection is effected by reacting the antibody first member of a specific binding complex with the second member of the binding pair that is labeled or unlabeled as mentioned above.

Moreover the unlabeled detector antibody can be detected by reacting the unlabeled antibody with a labeled antibody specific for the unlabeled antibody. In this instance detectably labeled as used above is taken to mean containing an epitope by which an antibody specific for the unlabeled antibody can bind. Such an anti antibody can be labeled directly or indirectly using any of the approaches discussed above. For example the anti antibody can be coupled to biotin which is detected by reacting with the streptavidin horseradish peroxidase system discussed above.

In one embodiment of this invention biotin is utilized. The biotinylated antibody is in turn reacted with streptavidin horseradish peroxidase complex. Orthophenylenediamine 4 chloro naphthol tetramethylbenzidine TMB ABTS BTS or ASA can be used to effect chromogenic detection.

In one immunoassay format for practicing this invention a forward sandwich assay is used in which the capture reagent has been immobilized using conventional techniques on the surface of a support. Suitable supports used in assays include synthetic polymer supports such as polypropylene polystyrene substituted polystyrene e.g. aminated or carboxylated polystyrene polyacrylamides polyamides polyvinylchloride glass beads agarose or nitrocellulose.

The invention also encompasses kits for detecting the presence of a biomarker protein or nucleic acid in a biological sample. Such kits can be used to determine if a subject is suffering from or is at increased risk of developing a tumor that is less susceptible to inhibition by EGFR kinase inhibitors. For example the kit can comprise a labeled compound or agent capable of detecting a biomarker protein or nucleic acid in a biological sample and means for determining the amount of the protein or mRNA in the sample e.g. an antibody which binds the protein or a fragment thereof or an oligonucleotide probe which binds to DNA or mRNA encoding the protein . Kits can also include instructions for interpreting the results obtained using the kit.

For antibody based kits the kit can comprise for example 1 a first antibody e.g. attached to a solid support which binds to a biomarker protein and optionally 2 a second different antibody which binds to either the protein or the first antibody and is conjugated to a detectable label.

For oligonucleotide based kits the kit can comprise for example 1 an oligonucleotide e.g. a detectably labeled oligonucleotide which hybridizes to a nucleic acid sequence encoding a biomarker protein or 2 a pair of primers useful for amplifying a biomarker nucleic acid molecule. The kit can also comprise e.g. a buffering agent a preservative or a protein stabilizing agent. The kit can further comprise components necessary for detecting the detectable label e.g. an enzyme or a substrate . The kit can also contain a control sample or a series of control samples which can be assayed and compared to the test sample. Each component of the kit can be enclosed within an individual container and all of the various containers can be within a single package along with instructions for interpreting the results of the assays performed using the kit.

It will be appreciated by one of skill in the medical arts that the exact manner of administering to said patient of a therapeutically effective amount of an EGFR kinase inhibitor following a diagnosis of a patient s likely responsiveness to an EGFR kinase inhibitor will be at the discretion of the attending physician. The mode of administration including dosage combination with other anti cancer agents timing and frequency of administration and the like may be affected by the diagnosis of a patient s likely responsiveness to an EGFR kinase inhibitor as well as the patient s condition and history. Thus even patients diagnosed with tumors predicted to be relatively insensitive to EGFR kinase inhibitors may still benefit from treatment with such inhibitors particularly in combination with other anti cancer agents or agents that may alter a tumor s sensitivity to EGFR kinase inhibitors.

The effectiveness of treatment in the preceding methods can for example be determined by measuring the decrease in size of tumors present in the patients with the neoplastic condition or by assaying a molecular determinant of the degree of proliferation of the tumor cells.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase and in addition simultaneously or sequentially one or more other cytotoxic chemotherapeutic or anti cancer agents or compounds that enhance the effects of such agents.

In the context of this invention additional other cytotoxic chemotherapeutic or anti cancer agents or compounds that enhance the effects of such agents include for example alkylating agents or agents with an alkylating action such as cyclophosphamide CTX e.g. CYTOXAN chlorambucil CHL e.g. LEUKERAN cisplatin CisP e.g. PLATINOL busulfan e.g. MYLERAN melphalan carmustine BCNU streptozotocin triethylenemelamine TEM mitomycin C and the like anti metabolites such as methotrexate MTX etoposide VP16 e.g. VEPESID 6 mercaptopurine 6MP 6 thiocguanine 6TG cytarabine Ara C 5 fluorouracil 5 FU capecitabine e.g. XELODA dacarbazine DTIC and the like antibiotics such as actinomycin D doxorubicin DXR e.g. ADRIAMYCIN daunorubicin daunomycin bleomycin mithramycin and the like alkaloids such as vinca alkaloids such as vincristine VCR vinblastine and the like and other antitumor agents such as paclitaxel e.g. TAXOL and pactitaxel derivatives the cytostatic agents glucocorticoids such as dexamethasone DEX e.g. DECADRON and corticosteroids such as prednisone nucleoside enzyme inhibitors such as hydroxyurea amino acid depleting enzymes such as asparaginase leucovorin and other folic acid derivatives and similar diverse antitumor agents. The following agents may also be used as additional agents amifostine e.g. ETHYOL dactinomycin mechlorethamine nitrogen mustard streptozocin cyclophosphamide lomustine CCNU doxorubicin lipo e.g. DOXIL gemcitabine e.g. GEMZAR daunorubicin lipo e.g. DAUNOXOME procarbazine mitomycin docetaxel e.g. TAXOTERE aldesleukin carboplatin oxaliplatin cladribine camptothecin CPT 11 irinotecan 10 hydroxy 7 ethyl camptothecin SN38 floxuridine fludarabine ifosfamide idarubicin mesna interferon beta interferon alpha mitoxantrone topotecan leuprolide megestrol melphalan mercaptopurine plicamycin mitotane pegaspargase pentostatin pipobroman plicamycin tamoxifen teniposide testolactone thioguanine thiotepa uracil mustard vinorelbine chlorambucil.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase and in addition simultaneously or sequentially one or more anti hormonal agents. As used herein the term anti hormonal agent includes natural or synthetic organic or peptidic compounds that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors.

Antihormonal agents include for example steroid receptor antagonists anti estrogens such as tamoxifen raloxifene aromatase inhibiting 4 5 imidazoles other aromatase inhibitors 42 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY 117018 onapristone and toremifene e.g. FARESTON anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above agonists and or antagonists of glycoprotein hormones such as follicle stimulating hormone FSH thyroid stimulating hormone TSH and luteinizing hormone LH and LHRH leuteinizing hormone releasing hormone the LHRH agonist goserelin acetate commercially available as ZOLADEX AstraZeneca the LHRH antagonist D alaninamide N acetyl 3 2 naphthalenyl D alanyl 4 chloro D phenylalanyl 3 3 pyridinyl D alanyl L seryl N6 3 pyridinylcarbonyl L lysyl N6 3 pyridinylcarbonyl D lysyl L leucyl N6 1 methylethyl L lysyl L proline e.g ANTIDE Ares Serono the LHRH antagonist ganirelix acetate the steroidal anti androgens cyproterone acetate CPA and megestrol acetate commercially available as MEGACE Bristol Myers Oncology the nonsteroidal anti androgen flutamide 2 methyl N 4 20 nitro 3 trifluoromethyl phenylpropanamide commercially available as EULEXIN Schering Corp. the non steroidal anti androgen nilutamide 5 5 dimethyl 3 4 nitro 3 trifluoromethyl 4 nitrophenyl 4 4 dimethyl imidazolidine dione and antagonists for other non permissive receptors such as antagonists for RAR RXR TR VDR and the like.

The use of the cytotoxic and other anticancer agents described above in chemotherapeutic regimens is generally well characterized in the cancer therapy arts and their use herein falls under the same considerations for monitoring tolerance and effectiveness and for controlling administration routes and dosages with some adjustments. For example the actual dosages of the cytotoxic agents may vary depending upon the patient s cultured cell response determined by using histoculture methods. Generally the dosage will be reduced compared to the amount used in the absence of additional other agents.

Typical dosages of an effective cytotoxic agent can be in the ranges recommended by the manufacturer and where indicated by in vitro responses or responses in animal models can be reduced by up to about one order of magnitude concentration or amount. Thus the actual dosage will depend upon the judgment of the physician the condition of the patient and the effectiveness of the therapeutic method based on the in vitro responsiveness of the primary cultured malignant cells or histocultured tissue sample or the responses observed in the appropriate animal models.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase and in addition simultaneously or sequentially one or more angiogenesis inhibitors.

Anti angiogenic agents include for example VEGFR inhibitors such as SU 5416 and SU 6668 Sugen Inc. of South San Francisco Calif. USA or as described in for example International Application Nos. WO 99 24440 WO 99 62890 WO 95 21613 WO 99 61422 WO 98 50356 WO 99 10349 WO 97 32856 WO 97 22596 WO 98 54093 WO 98 02438 WO 99 16755 and WO 98 02437 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 883 113 5 886 020 5 792 783 5 834 504 and 6 235 764 VEGF inhibitors such as IM862 Cytran Inc. of Kirkland Wash. USA angiozyme a synthetic ribozyme from Ribozyme Boulder Colo. and Chiron Emeryville Calif. and antibodies to VEGF such as bevacizumab e.g. AVASTIN Genentech South San Francisco Calif. a recombinant humanized antibody to VEGF integrin receptor antagonists and integrin antagonists such as to and integrins and subtypes thereof e.g. cilengitide EMD 121974 or the anti integrin antibodies such as for example specific humanized antibodies e.g. VITAXIN factors such as IFN alpha U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 1530 901 4 503 035 and 5 231 176 angiostatin and plasminogen fragments e.g. kringle 1 4 kringle 5 kringle 1 3 O Reilly M. S. et al. 1994 Cell 79 315 328 Cao et al. 1996 J. Biol. Chem. 271 29461 29467 Cao et al. 1997 J. Biol. Chem. 272 22924 22928 endostatin O Reilly M. S. et al. 1997 Cell 88 277 and International Patent Publication No. WO 97 15666 thrombospondin TSP 1 Frazier 1991 Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 3 792 platelet factor 4 PF4 plasminogen activator urokinase inhibitors urokinase receptor antagonists heparinases fumagillin analogs such as TNP 4701 suramin and suramin analogs angiostatic steroids bFGF antagonists flk 1 and flt 1 antagonists anti angiogenesis agents such as MMP 2 matrix metalloproteinase 2 inhibitors and MMP 9 matrix metalloproteinase 9 inhibitors. Examples of useful matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors are described in International Patent Publication Nos. WO 96 33172 WO 96 27583 WO 98 07697 WO 98 03516 WO 98 34918 WO 98 34915 WO 98 33768 WO 98 30566 WO 90 05719 WO 99 52910 WO 99 52889 WO 99 29667 and WO 99 07675 European Patent Publication Nos. 818 442 780 386 1 004 578 606 046 and 931 788 Great Britain Patent Publication No. 9912961 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 863 949 and 5 861 510. Preferred MMP 2 and MMP 9 inhibitors are those that have little or no activity inhibiting MMP 1. More preferred are those that selectively inhibit MMP 2 and or MMP 9 relative to the other matrix metalloproteinases i.e. MMP 1 MMP 3 MMP 4 MMP 5 MMP 6 MMP 7 MMP 8 MMP 10 MMP 11 MMP 12 and MMP 13 .

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase and in addition simultaneously or sequentially one or more tumor cell pro apoptotic or apoptosis stimulating agents.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase and in addition simultaneously or sequentially one or more signal transduction inhibitors.

Signal transduction inhibitors include for example erbB2 receptor inhibitors such as organic molecules or antibodies that bind to the erbB2 receptor for example trastuzumab e.g. HERCEPTIN inhibitors of other protein tyrosine kinases e.g. imitinib e.g. GLEEVEC ras inhibitors raf inhibitors e.g. BAY 43 9006 Onyx Pharmaceuticals Bayer Pharmaceuticals MEK inhibitors mTOR inhibitors cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors protein kinase C inhibitors and PDK 1 inhibitors see Dancey J. and Sausville E. A. 2003 Nature Rev. Drug Discovery 2 92 313 for a description of several examples of such inhibitors and their use in clinical trials for the treatment of cancer .

ErbB2 receptor inhibitors include for example ErbB2 receptor inhibitors such as GW 282974 Glaxo Wellcome plc monoclonal antibodies such as AR 209 Aronex Pharmaceuticals Inc. of The Woodlands Tex. USA and 2B 1 Chiron and erbB2 inhibitors such as those described in International Publication Nos. WO 98 02434 WO 99 35146 WO 99 35132 WO 98 02437 WO 97 13760 and WO 95 19970 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 587 458 5 877 305 6 465 449 and 6 541 481.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase and in addition simultaneously or sequentially an anti HER2 antibody or an immunotherapeutically active fragment thereof.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an EGFR kinase inhibitor and in addition simultaneously or sequentially one or more additional anti proliferative agents.

Additional antiproliferative agents include for example Inhibitors of the enzyme farnesyl protein transferase and inhibitors of the receptor tyrosine kinase PDGFR including the compounds disclosed and claimed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 080 769 6 194 438 6 258 824 6 586 447 6 071 935 6 495 564 6 150 377 6 596 735 and 6 479 513 and International Patent Publication WO 01 40217.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an EGFR kinase inhibitor and in addition simultaneously or sequentially a COX II cyclooxygenase II inhibitor. Examples of useful COX II inhibitors include alecoxib e.g. CELEBREX valdecoxib and rofecoxib.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase and in addition simultaneously or sequentially treatment with radiation or a radiopharmaceutical.

The source of radiation can be either external or internal to the patient being treated. When the source is external to the patient the therapy is known as external beam radiation therapy EBRT . When the source of radiation is internal to the patient the treatment is called brachytherapy BT . Radioactive atoms for use in the context of this invention can be selected from the group including but not limited to radium cesium 137 iridium 192 americium 241 gold 198 cobalt 57 copper 67 technetium 99 iodine 123 iodine 131 and indium 111. Where the inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase according to this invention is an antibody it is also possible to label the antibody with such radioactive isotopes.

Radiation therapy is a standard treatment for controlling unresectable or inoperable tumors and or tumor metastases. Improved results have been seen when radiation therapy has been combined with chemotherapy. Radiation therapy is based on the principle that high dose radiation delivered to a target area will result in the death of reproductive cells in both tumor and normal tissues. The radiation dosage regimen is generally defined in terms of radiation absorbed dose Gy time and fractionation and must be carefully defined by the oncologist. The amount of radiation a patient receives will depend on various considerations but the two most important are the location of the tumor in relation to other critical structures or organs of the body and the extent to which the tumor has spread. A typical course of treatment for a patient undergoing radiation therapy will be a treatment schedule over a 1 to 6 week period with a total dose of between 10 and 80 Gy administered to the patient in a single daily fraction of about 1.8 to 2.0 Gy 5 days a week. In a preferred embodiment of this invention there is synergy when tumors in human patients are treated with the combination treatment of the invention and radiation. In other words the inhibition of tumor growth by means of the agents comprising the combination of the invention is enhanced when combined with radiation optionally with additional chemotherapeutic or anticancer agents. Parameters of adjuvant radiation therapies are for example contained in International Patent Publication WO 99 60023.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase and in addition simultaneously or sequentially treatment with one or more agents capable of enhancing antitumor immune responses.

Agents capable of enhancing antitumor immune responses include for example CTLA4 cytotoxic lymphocyte antigen 4 antibodies e.g. MDX CTLA4 and other agents capable of blocking CTLA4. Specific CTLA4 antibodies that can be used in the present invention include those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 682 736.

In the context of this invention an effective amount of an agent or therapy is as defined above. A sub therapeutic amount of an agent or therapy is an amount less than the effective amount for that agent or therapy but when combined with an effective or sub therapeutic amount of another agent or therapy can produce a result desired by the physician due to for example synergy in the resulting efficacious effects or reduced side effects.

As used herein the term patient preferably refers to a human in need of treatment with an EGFR kinase inhibitor for any purpose and more preferably a human in need of such a treatment to treat cancer or a precancerous condition or lesion. However the term patient can also refer to non human animals preferably mammals such as dogs cats horses cows pigs sheep and non human primates among others that are in need of treatment with an EGFR kinase inhibitor.

In a preferred embodiment the patient is a human in need of treatment for cancer a precancerous condition or lesion or other forms of abnormal cell growth. The cancer is preferably any cancer treatable either partially or completely by administration of an EGFR kinase inhibitor. The cancer may be for example lung cancer non small cell lung NSCL cancer bronchioloalviolar cell lung cancer bone cancer pancreatic cancer skin cancer cancer of the head or neck cutaneous or intraocular melanoma uterine cancer ovarian cancer rectal cancer cancer of the anal region stomach cancer gastric cancer colon cancer breast cancer uterine cancer carcinoma of the fallopian tubes carcinoma of the endometrium carcinoma of the cervix carcinoma of the vagina carcinoma of the vulva Hodgkin s Disease cancer of the esophagus cancer of the small intestine cancer of the endocrine system cancer of the thyroid gland cancer of the parathyroid gland cancer of the adrenal gland sarcoma of soft tissue cancer of the urethra cancer of the penis prostate cancer cancer of the bladder cancer of the kidney or ureter renal cell carcinoma carcinoma of the renal pelvis mesothelioma hepatocellular cancer biliary cancer chronic or acute leukemia lymphocytic lymphomas neoplasms of the central nervous system CNS spinal axis tumors brain stem glioma glioblastoma multiforme astrocytomas schwannomas ependymomas medulloblastomas meningiomas squamous cell carcinomas pituitary adenomas including refractory versions of any of the above cancers or a combination of one or more of the above cancers. The precancerous condition or lesion includes for example the group consisting of oral leukoplakia actinic keratosis solar keratosis precancerous polyps of the colon or rectum gastric epithelial dysplasia adenomatous dysplasia hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer syndrome HNPCC Barrett s esophagus bladder dysplasia and precancerous cervical conditions.

For purposes of the present invention co administration of and co administering an inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase with an additional anti cancer agent both components referred to hereinafter as the two active agents refer to any administration of the two active agents either separately or together where the two active agents are administered as part of an appropriate dose regimen designed to obtain the benefit of the combination therapy. Thus the two active agents can be administered either as part of the same pharmaceutical composition or in separate pharmaceutical compositions. The additional agent can be administered prior to at the same time as or subsequent to administration of the inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase or in some combination thereof. Where the inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase is administered to the patient at repeated intervals e.g. during a standard course of treatment the additional agent can be administered prior to at the same time as or subsequent to each administration of the inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase or some combination thereof of these modes or at different intervals in relation to the treatment with the inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase or in a single dose prior to at any time during or subsequent to the course of treatment with the inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase.

The inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase will typically be administered to the patient in a dose regimen that provides for the most effective treatment of the cancer from both efficacy and safety perspectives for which the patient is being treated as known in the art and as disclosed e.g. in International Patent Publication No. WO 01 34574 others for PDGFR FGFR . In conducting the treatment method of the present invention the inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase can be administered in any effective manner known in the art such as by oral topical intravenous intra peritoneal intramuscular intra articular subcutaneous intranasal intra ocular vaginal rectal or intradermal routes depending upon the type of cancer being treated the type of kinase inhibitor being used for example small molecule antibody RNAi ribozyme or antisense construct and the medical judgement of the prescribing physician as based e.g. on the results of published clinical studies.

The amount of inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase administered and the timing of kinase inhibitor administration will depend on the type species gender age weight etc. and condition of the patient being treated the severity of the disease or condition being treated and on the route of administration. For example small molecule kinase inhibitors can be administered to a patient in doses ranging from 0.001 to 100 mg kg of body weight per day or per week in single or divided doses or by continuous infusion see for example International Patent Publication No. WO 01 34574 . In particular erlotinib HCl can be administered to a patient in doses ranging from 5 200 mg per day or 100 1600 mg per week in single or divided doses or by continuous infusion. A preferred dose is 150 mg day. Antibody based kinase inhibitors or antisense RNAi or ribozyme constructs can be administered to a patient in doses ranging from 0.1 to 100 mg kg of body weight per day or per week in single or divided doses or by continuous infusion. In some instances dosage levels below the lower limit of the aforesaid range may be more than adequate while in other cases still larger doses may be employed without causing any harmful side effect provided that such larger doses are first divided into several small doses for administration throughout the day.

The inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase and other additional agents can be administered either separately or together by the same or different routes and in a wide variety of different dosage forms. For example the kinase inhibitor is preferably administered orally or parenterally. Where the EGFR kinase inhibitor is erlotinib HCl TARCEVA oral administration is preferable. Both the inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase and other additional agents can be administered in single or multiple doses.

The inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase can be administered with various pharmaceutically acceptable inert carriers in the form of tablets capsules lozenges troches hard candies powders sprays creams salves suppositories jellies gels pastes lotions ointments elixirs syrups and the like. Administration of such dosage forms can be carried out in single or multiple doses. Carriers include solid diluents or fillers sterile aqueous media and various non toxic organic solvents etc. Oral pharmaceutical compositions can be suitably sweetened and or flavored.

The inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase can be combined together with various pharmaceutically acceptable inert carriers in the form of sprays creams salves suppositories jellies gels pastes lotions ointments and the like. Administration of such dosage forms can be carried out in single or multiple doses. Carriers include solid diluents or fillers sterile aqueous media and various non toxic organic solvents etc.

All formulations comprising proteinaceous inhibitors of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase should be selected so as to avoid denaturation and or degradation and loss of biological activity of the inhibitor.

Methods of preparing pharmaceutical compositions comprising an EGFR kinase inhibitor are known in the art and are described e.g. in International Patent Publication No. WO 01 34574. In view of the teaching of the present invention methods of preparing pharmaceutical compositions comprising an inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase will be apparent from the above cited publications and from other known references such as Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 18edition 1990 .

For oral administration of inhibitors of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase tablets containing one or more than one active agent are combined with any of various excipients such as for example micro crystalline cellulose sodium citrate calcium carbonate dicalcium phosphate and glycine along with various disintegrants such as starch and preferably corn potato or tapioca starch alginic acid and certain complex silicates together with granulation binders like polyvinyl pyrrolidone sucrose gelatin and acacia. Additionally lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate sodium lauryl sulfate and talc are often very useful for tableting purposes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in gelatin capsules preferred materials in this connection also include lactose or milk sugar as well as high molecular weight polyethylene glycols. When aqueous suspensions and or elixirs are desired for oral administration the kinase inhibitor may be combined with various sweetening or flavoring agents coloring matter or dyes and if so desired emulsifying and or suspending agents as well together with such diluents as water ethanol propylene glycol glycerin and various like combinations thereof.

For parenteral administration of active agents solutions in either sesame or peanut oil or in aqueous propylene glycol may be employed as well as sterile aqueous solutions comprising the active agent or a corresponding water soluble salt thereof. Such sterile aqueous solutions are preferably suitably buffered and are also preferably rendered isotonic e.g. with sufficient saline or glucose. These particular aqueous solutions are especially suitable for intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous and intraperitoneal injection purposes. The oily solutions are suitable for intra articular intramuscular and subcutaneous injection purposes. The preparation of all these solutions under sterile conditions is readily accomplished by standard pharmaceutical techniques well known to those skilled in the art. Any parenteral formulation selected for administration of proteinaceous kinase inhibitors should be selected so as to avoid denaturation and loss of biological activity of the inhibitor.

Additionally it is possible to topically administer either or both of the active agents by way of for example creams lotions jellies gels pastes ointments salves and the like in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice. For example a topical formulation comprising an inhibitor of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase in about 0.1 w v to about 5 w v concentration can be prepared.

For veterinary purposes the active agents can be administered separately or together to animals using any of the forms and by any of the routes described above. In a preferred embodiment the kinase inhibitor is administered in the form of a capsule bolus tablet liquid drench by injection or as an implant. As an alternative the EGFR kinase inhibitor can be administered with the animal feedstuff and for this purpose a concentrated feed additive or premix may be prepared for a normal animal feed. Such formulations are prepared in a conventional manner in accordance with standard veterinary practice.

As used herein the term EGFR kinase inhibitor refers to any EGFR kinase inhibitor that is currently known in the art or that will be identified in the future and includes any chemical entity that upon administration to a patient results in inhibition of a biological activity associated with activation of the EGF receptor in the patient including any of the downstream biological effects otherwise resulting from the binding to EGFR of its natural ligand. Such EGFR kinase inhibitors include any agent that can block EGFR activation or any of the downstream biological effects of EGFR activation that are relevant to treating cancer in a patient. Such an inhibitor can act by binding directly to the intracellular domain of the receptor and inhibiting its kinase activity. Alternatively such an inhibitor can act by occupying the ligand binding site or a portion thereof of the EGF receptor thereby making the receptor inaccessible to its natural ligand so that its normal biological activity is prevented or reduced. Alternatively such an inhibitor can act by modulating the dimerization of EGFR polypeptides or interaction of EGFR polypeptide with other proteins or enhance ubiquitination and endocytotic degradation of EGFR. EGFR kinase inhibitors include but are not limited to low molecular weight inhibitors antibodies or antibody fragments antisense constructs small inhibitory RNAs i.e. RNA interference by dsRNA RNAi and ribozymes. EGFR kinase inhibitors include anti EGFR or anti EGF aptamers anti EGFR or anti EGF antibodies soluble EGFR receptor decoys that prevent binding of a EGFR to its cognate receptor or aptamers or antibodies that inhibit other EGFR ligands e.g. TGF . In a preferred embodiment the EGFR kinase inhibitor is a small organic molecule or an antibody that binds specifically to the human EGFR.

EGFR kinase inhibitors include for example quinazoline EGFR kinase inhibitors pyrido pyrimidine EGFR kinase inhibitors pyrimido pyrimidine EGFR kinase inhibitors pyrrolo pyrimidine EGFR kinase inhibitors pyrazolo pyrimidine EGFR kinase inhibitors phenylamino pyrimidine EGFR kinase inhibitors oxindole EGFR kinase inhibitors indolocarbazole EGFR kinase inhibitors phthalazine EGFR kinase inhibitors isoflavone EGFR kinase inhibitors quinalone EGFR kinase inhibitors and tyrphostin EGFR kinase inhibitors such as those described in the following patent publications and all pharmaceutically acceptable salts and solvates of said EGFR kinase inhibitors International Patent Publication Nos. WO 96 33980 WO 96 30347 WO 97 30034 WO 97 30044 WO 97 38994 WO 97 49688 WO 98 02434 WO 97 38983 WO 95 19774 WO 95 19970 WO 97 13771 WO 98 02437 WO 98 02438 WO 97 32881 WO 98 33798 WO 97 32880 WO 97 3288 WO 97 02266 WO 97 27199 WO 98 07726 WO 97 34895 WO 96 31510 WO 98 14449 WO 98 14450 WO 98 14451 WO 95 09847 WO 97 19065 WO 98 17662 WO 99 35146 WO 99 35132 WO 99 07701 and WO 92 20642 European Patent Application Nos. EP 520722 EP 566226 EP 787772 EP 837063 and EP 682027 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 747 498 5 789 427 5 650 415 and 5 656 643 and German Patent Application No. DE 19629652. Additional non limiting examples of low molecular weight EGFR kinase inhibitors include any of the EGFR kinase inhibitors described in Traxler P. 1998 Exp. Opin. Ther. Patents 8 12 1599 1625.

Specific preferred examples of low molecular weight EGFR kinase inhibitors that can be used according to the present invention include 6 7 bis 2 methoxyethoxy 4 quinazolin 4 yl 3 ethynylphenyl amine also known as OSI 774 erlotinib or TARCEVA erlotinib HCl OSI Pharmaceuticals Genentech Roche U.S. Pat. No. 5 747 498 International Patent Publication No. WO 01 34574 and Moyer J. D. et al. 1997 Cancer Res. 57 4838 4848 CI 1033 formerly known as PD183805 Pfizer Sherwood et al. 1999 Proc. Am. Assoc. Cancer Res. 40 723 PD 158780 Pfizer AG 1478 University of California CGP 59326 Novartis PKI 166 Novartis EKB 569 Wyeth GW 2016 TYKERB also known as GW 572016 or lapatinib ditosylate GSK and gefitinib also known as ZD1839 or IRESSA Astrazeneca Woodburn et al. 1997 Proc. Am. Assoc. Cancer Res. 38 633 . A particularly preferred low molecular weight EGFR kinase inhibitor that can be used according to the present invention is 6 7 bis 2 methoxyethoxy 4 quinazolin 4 yl 3 ethynylphenyl amine i.e. erlotinib its hydrochloride salt i.e. erlotinib HCl TARCEVA or other salt forms e.g. erlotinib mesylate .

Antibody based EGFR kinase inhibitors include any anti EGFR antibody or antibody fragment that can partially or completely block EGFR activation by its natural ligand. Non limiting examples of antibody based EGFR kinase inhibitors include those described in Modjtahedi H. et al. 1993 Br. J. Cancer 67 247 253 Teramoto T. et al. 1996 Cancer 77 639 645 Goldstein et al. 1995 Clin. Cancer Res. 1 1311 1318 Huang S. M. et al. 1999 Cancer Res. 15 59 8 1935 40 and Yang X. et al. 1999 Cancer Res. 59 1236 1243. Thus the EGFR kinase inhibitor can be the monoclonal antibody Mab E7.6.3 Yang X. D. et al. 1999 Cancer Res. 59 1236 43 or Mab C225 ATCC Accession No. HB 8508 or an antibody or antibody fragment having the binding specificity thereof. Suitable monoclonal antibody EGFR kinase inhibitors include but are not limited to IMC C225 also known as cetuximab or ERBITUX Imclone Systems panitumumab VECTIBIX Abgenix also known as ABX EGF EMD 72000 Merck KgaA Darmstadt RH3 York Medical Bioscience Inc. and MDX 447 Medarex Merck KgaA .

Additional antibody based EGFR kinase inhibitors can be raised according to known methods by administering the appropriate antigen or epitope to a host animal selected e.g. from pigs cows horses rabbits goats sheep and mice among others. Various adjuvants known in the art can be used to enhance antibody production.

Although antibodies useful in practicing the invention can be polyclonal monoclonal antibodies are preferred. Monoclonal antibodies against EGFR can be prepared and isolated using any technique that provides for the production of antibody molecules by continuous cell lines in culture. Techniques for production and isolation include but are not limited to the hybridoma technique originally described by Kohler and Milstein Nature 1975 256 495 497 the human B cell hybridoma technique Kosbor et al. 1983 Immunology Today 4 72 Cote et al. 1983 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 80 2026 2030 and the EBV hybridoma technique Cole et al 1985 Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy Alan R. Liss Inc. pp. 77 96 .

Alternatively techniques described for the production of single chain antibodies see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 946 778 can be adapted to produce anti EGFR single chain antibodies. Antibody based EGFR kinase inhibitors useful in practicing the present invention also include anti EGFR antibody fragments including but not limited to F ab .sub.2 fragments which can be generated by pepsin digestion of an intact antibody molecule and Fab fragments which can be generated by reducing the disulfide bridges of the F ab .sub.2 fragments. Alternatively Fab and or scFv expression libraries can be constructed see e.g. Huse et al. 1989 Science 246 1275 1281 to allow rapid identification of fragments having the desired specificity to EGFR.

Techniques for the production and isolation of monoclonal antibodies and antibody fragments are well known in the art and are described in Harlow and Lane 1988 Antibodies A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory and in J. W. Goding 1986 Monoclonal Antibodies Principles and Practice Academic Press London. Humanized anti EGFR antibodies and antibody fragments can also be prepared according to known techniques such as those described in Vaughn T. J. et al. 1998 Nature Biotech. 16 535 539 and references cited therein and such antibodies or fragments thereof are also useful in practicing the present invention.

EGFR kinase inhibitors for use in the present invention can alternatively be based on antisense oligonucleotide constructs. Anti sense oligonucleotides including anti sense RNA molecules and anti sense DNA molecules would act to directly block the translation of EGFR mRNA by binding thereto and thus preventing protein translation or increasing mRNA degradation thus decreasing the level of EGFR kinase protein and thus activity in a cell. For example antisense oligonucleotides of at least about 15 bases and complementary to unique regions of the mRNA transcript sequence encoding EGFR can be synthesized e.g. by conventional phosphodiester techniques and administered by e.g. intravenous injection or infusion. Methods for using antisense techniques for specifically inhibiting gene expression of genes whose sequence is known are well known in the art e.g. see U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 566 135 6 566 131 6 365 354 6 410 323 6 107 091 6 046 321 and 5 981 732 .

Small inhibitory RNAs siRNAs can also function as EGFR kinase inhibitors for use in the present invention. EGFR gene expression can be reduced by contacting the tumor subject or cell with a small double stranded RNA dsRNA or a vector or construct causing the production of a small double stranded RNA such that expression of EGFR is specifically inhibited i.e. RNA interference or RNAi . Methods for selecting an appropriate dsRNA or dsRNA encoding vector are well known in the art for genes whose sequence is known e.g. see Tuschi T. et al. 1999 Genes Dev. 13 24 3191 3197 Elbashir S. M. et al. 2001 Nature 411 494 498 Hannon G. J. 2002 Nature 418 244 251 McManus M. T. and Sharp P. A. 2002 Nature Reviews Genetics 3 737 747 Bremmelkamp T. R. et al. 2002 Science 296 550 553 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 573 099 and 6 506 559 and International Patent Publication Nos. WO 01 36646 WO 99 32619 and WO 01 68836 .

Ribozymes can also function as EGFR kinase inhibitors for use in the present invention. Ribozymes are enzymatic RNA molecules capable of catalyzing the specific cleavage of RNA. The mechanism of ribozyme action involves sequence specific hybridization of the ribozyme molecule to complementary target RNA followed by endonucleolytic cleavage. Engineered hairpin or hammerhead motif ribozyme molecules that specifically and efficiently catalyze endonucleolytic cleavage of EGFR mRNA sequences are thereby useful within the scope of the present invention. Specific ribozyme cleavage sites within any potential RNA target are initially identified by scanning the target molecule for ribozyme cleavage sites which typically include the following sequences GUA GUU and GUC. Once identified short RNA sequences of between about 15 and 20 ribonucleotides corresponding to the region of the target gene containing the cleavage site can be evaluated for predicted structural features such as secondary structure that can render the oligonucleotide sequence unsuitable. The suitability of candidate targets can also be evaluated by testing their accessibility to hybridization with complementary oligonucleotides using e.g. ribonuclease protection assays.

Both antisense oligonucleotides and ribozymes useful as EGFR kinase inhibitors can be prepared by known methods. These include techniques for chemical synthesis such as e.g. by solid phase phosphoramadite chemical synthesis. Alternatively anti sense RNA molecules can be generated by in vitro or in vivo transcription of DNA sequences encoding the RNA molecule. Such DNA sequences can be incorporated into a wide variety of vectors that incorporate suitable RNA polymerase promoters such as the T7 or SP6 polymerase promoters. Various modifications to the oligonucleotides of the invention can be introduced as a means of increasing intracellular stability and half life. Possible modifications include but are not limited to the addition of flanking sequences of ribonucleotides or deoxyribonucleotides to the 5 and or 3 ends of the molecule or the use of phosphorothioate or 2 O methyl rather than phosphodiesterase linkages within the oligonucleotide backbone.

As used herein the term PDGFR kinase inhibitor refers to any PDGFR kinase inhibitor that is currently known in the art or that will be identified in the future and includes any chemical entity that upon administration to a patient results in inhibition of a biological activity associated with activation of the PDGF receptor in the patient including any of the downstream biological effects otherwise resulting from the binding to PDGFR of its natural ligand. Such PDGFR kinase inhibitors include any agent that can block PDGFR activation or any of the downstream biological effects of PDGFR activation that are relevant to treating cancer in a patient. Such an inhibitor can act by binding directly to the intracellular domain of the receptor and inhibiting its kinase activity. Alternatively such an inhibitor can act by occupying the ligand binding site or a portion thereof of the PDGF receptor thereby making the receptor inaccessible to its natural ligand so that its normal biological activity is prevented or reduced. Alternatively such an inhibitor can act by modulating the dimerization of PDGFR polypeptides or interaction of PDGFR polypeptide with other proteins or enhance ubiquitination and endocytotic degradation of PDGFR. PDGFR kinase inhibitors include but are not limited to low molecular weight inhibitors antibodies or antibody fragments antisense constructs small inhibitory RNAs i.e. RNA interference by dsRNA RNAi and ribozymes. PDGFR kinase inhibitors include anti PDGF or anti PDGFR aptamers anti PDGF or anti PDGFR antibodies or soluble PDGF receptor decoys that prevent binding of a PDGF to its cognate receptor. In a preferred embodiment the PDGFR kinase inhibitor is a small organic molecule or an antibody that binds specifically to the human PDGFR. The ability of a compound or agent to serve as a PDGFR kinase inhibitor may be determined according to the methods known in art and further as set forth in e.g. Dai et al. 2001 15 1913 25 Zippel et al. 1989 50 2 428 34 and Zwiller et al. 1991 6 219 21.

The invention includes PDGFR kinase inhibitors known in the art as well as those supported below and any and all equivalents that are within the scope of ordinary skill to create. For example inhibitory antibodies directed against PDGF are known in the art e.g. those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 976 534 5 833 986 5 817 310 5 882 644 5 662 904 5 620 687 5 468 468 and PCT WO 2003 025019 the contents of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In addition the invention includes N phenyl 2 pyrimidine amine derivatives that are PDGFR kinase inhibitors such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 521 184 as well as WO2003 013541 WO2003 078404 WO2003 099771 WO2003 015282 and WO2004 05282 which are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference.

Small molecules that block the action of PDGF are known in the art e.g. those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 528 526 PDGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors 6 524 347 PDGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors 6 482 834 PDGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors 6 472 391 PDGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors 6 949 563 6 696 434 6 331 555 6 251 905 6 245 760 6 207 667 5 990 141 5 700 822 5 618 837 5 731 326 and 2005 0154014 and International Published Application Nos. WO 2005 021531 WO 2005 021544 and WO 2005 021537 the contents of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Proteins and polypeptides that block the action of PDGF are known in the art e.g. those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 350 731 PDGF peptide analogs 5 952 304 the contents of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Bis mono and bicyclic aryl and heteroaryl compounds which inhibit EGF and or PDGF receptor tyrosine kinase are known in the art e.g. those described in e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 476 851 5 480 883 5 656 643 5 795 889 and 6 057 320 the contents of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Antisense oligonucleotides for the inhibition of PDGF are known in the art e.g. those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 869 462 and 5 821 234 the contents of each of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Aptamers also known as nucleic acid ligands for the inhibition of PDGF are known in the art e.g. those described in e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 582 918 6 229 002 6 207 816 5 668 264 5 674 685 and 5 723 594 the contents of each of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Other compounds for inhibiting PDGF known in the art include those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 238 950 5 418 135 5 674 892 5 693 610 5 700 822 5 700 823 5 728 726 5 795 910 5 817 310 5 872 218 5 932 580 5 932 602 5 958 959 5 990 141 6 358 954 6 537 988 and 6 673 798 the contents of each of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

A number of types of tyrosine kinase inhibitors that are selective for tyrosine kinase receptor enzymes such as PDGFR are known see e.g. Spada and Myers 1995 5 805 and Bridges 1995 5 1245 . Additionally Law and Lydon have summarized the anticancer potential of tyrosine kinase inhibitors 1996 241 260 . For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 528 526 describes substituted quinoxaline compounds that selectively inhibit platelet derived growth factor receptor PDGFR tyrosine kinase activity. The known inhibitors of PDGFR tyrosine kinase activity includes quinoline based inhibitors reported by Maguire et al. 1994 37 2129 and by Dolle et al. 1994 J. Med. Chem. 37 2627 . A class of phenylamino pyrimidine based inhibitors was recently reported by Traxler et al. in EP 564409 and by Zimmerman et al. 1996 6 1221 1226 and by Buchdunger et al. 1995 . 92 2558 . Quinazoline derivatives that are useful in inhibiting PDGF receptor tyrosine kinase activity include bismono and bicyclic aryl compounds and heteroaryl compounds see e.g. WO 92 20642 quinoxaline derivatives see 1994 54 6106 6114 pyrimidine derivatives Japanese Published Patent Application No. 87834 94 and dimethoxyquinoline derivatives see 116 1996 2 p. 275 29 C2 15 2 .

Specific preferred examples of low molecular weight PDGFR kinase inhibitors that can be used according to the present invention include Imatinib GLEEVEC Novartis SU 12248 sunitib malate SUTENT Pfizer Dasatinib SPRYCEL BMS also known as BMS 354825 Sorafenib NEXAVAR Bayer also known as Bay 43 9006 AG 13736 Axitinib Pfizer RPR127963 Sanofi Aventis CP 868596 Pfizer OSI Pharmaceuticals MLN 518 tandutinib Millennium Pharmaceuticals AMG 706 Motesanib Amgen ARAVA leflunomide Sanofi Aventis also known as SU101 and OSI 930 OSI Pharmaceuticals Additional preferred examples of low molecular weight PDGFR kinase inhibitors that are also FGFR kinase inhibitors that can be used according to the present invention include XL 999 Exelixis SU6668 Pfizer CHIR 258 TKI 258 Chiron RO4383596 Hoffmann La Roche and BIBF 1120 Boehringer Ingelheim .

As used herein the term FGFR kinase inhibitor refers to any FGFR kinase inhibitor that is currently known in the art or that will be identified in the future and includes any chemical entity that upon administration to a patient results in inhibition of a biological activity associated with activation of the FGF receptor in the patient including any of the downstream biological effects otherwise resulting from the binding to FGFR of its natural ligand. Such FGFR kinase inhibitors include any agent that can block FGFR activation or any of the downstream biological effects of FGFR activation that are relevant to treating cancer in a patient. Such an inhibitor can act by binding directly to the intracellular domain of the receptor and inhibiting its kinase activity. Alternatively such an inhibitor can act by occupying the ligand binding site or a portion thereof of the FGF receptor thereby making the receptor inaccessible to its natural ligand so that its normal biological activity is prevented or reduced. Alternatively such an inhibitor can act by modulating the dimerization of FGFR polypeptides or interaction of FGFR polypeptide with other proteins or enhance ubiquitination and endocytotic degradation of FGFR. FGFR kinase inhibitors include but are not limited to low molecular weight inhibitors antibodies or antibody fragments antisense constructs small inhibitory RNAs i.e. RNA interference by dsRNA RNAi and ribozymes. FGFR kinase inhibitors include anti FGF or anti FGFR aptamers anti FGF or anti FGFR antibodies or soluble FGFR receptor decoys that prevent binding of a FGFR to its cognate receptor. In a preferred embodiment the FGFR kinase inhibitor is a small organic molecule or an antibody that binds specifically to the human FGFR. Anti FGFR antibodies include FR1 H7 FGFR 1 and FR3 D11 FGFR 3 Imclone Systems Inc. .

FGFR kinase inhibitors also include compounds that inhibit FGFR signal transduction by affecting the ability of heparan sulfate proteoglycans to modulate FGFR activity. Heparan sulfate proteoglycans in the extracellular matrix can mediate the actions of FGF e.g. protection from proteolysis localization storage and internalization of growth factors Faham S. et al. 1998 Curr. Opin. Struct. Biol. 8 578 586 and may serve as low affinity FGF receptors that act to present FGF to its cognate FGFR and or to facilitate receptor oligomerization Galzie Z. et al. 1997 Biochem. Cell. Biol. 75 669 685 .

The invention includes FGFR kinase inhibitors known in the art e.g. PD173074 as well as those supported below and any and all equivalents that are within the scope of ordinary skill to create.

Examples of chemicals that may antagonize FGF action and can thus be used as FGFR kinase inhibitors in the methods described herein include suramin structural analogs of suramin pentosan polysulfate scopolamine angiostatin sprouty estradiol carboxymethylbenzylamine dextran CMDB7 suradista insulin like growth factor binding protein 3 ethanol heparin e.g. 6 O desulfated heparin low molecular weight heparin protamine sulfate cyclosporin A or RNA ligands for bFGF.

Other agents or compounds for inhibiting FGFR kinase known in the art include those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 151 176 Bristol Myers Squibb Company Pyrrolotriazine compounds 7 102 002 Bristol Myers Squibb Company pyrrolotriazine compounds 5 132 408 Salk Institute peptide FGF antagonists and 5 945 422 Warner Lambert Company 2 amino substituted pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidines U.S. published Patent application Nos. 2005 0256154 4 amino thieno 3 2 c pyridine 7 carboxylic acid amide compounds and 2004 0204427 pyrimidino compounds and published International Patent Applications WO 2007019884 Merck Patent GmbH N 3 pyrazolyl N 4 4 pyridinyloxy phenyl urea compounds WO 2007009773 Novartis AG pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 7 yl amine derivatives WO 2007014123 Five Prime Therapeutics Inc. FGFR fusion proteins WO 2006134989 Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co. Ltd. nitrogenous heterocycle compounds WO 2006112479 Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co. Ltd. azaheterocycles WO 2006108482 Merck Patent GmbH 9 4 ureidophenyl purine compounds WO 2006105844 Merck Patent GmbH N 3 pyrazolyl N 4 4 pyridinyloxy phenyl urea compounds WO 2006094600 Merck Patent GmbH tetrahydropyrroloquinoline derivatives WO 2006050800 Merck Patent GmbH N N diarylurea derivatives WO 2006050779 Merck Patent GmbH N N diarylurea derivatives WO 2006042599 Merck Patent GmbH phenylurea derivatives WO 2005066211 Five Prime Therapeutics Inc. anti FGFR antibodies WO 2005054246 Merck Patent GmbH heterocyclyl amines WO 2005028448 Merck Patent GmbH 2 amino 1 benzyl substituted benzimidazole derivatives WO 2005011597 Irm Llc substituted heterocyclic derivatives WO 2004093812 Irm Llc Scripps 6 phenyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine derivatives WO 2004046152 F. Hoffmann La Roche AG pyrimido 4 5 e oxadiazine derivatives WO 2004041822 F. Hoffmann La Roche AG pyrimido 4 5 d pyrimidine derivatives WO 2004018472 F. Hoffmann La Roche AG pyrimido 4 5 d pyrimidine derivatives WO 2004013145 Bristol Myers Squibb Company pyrrolotriazine derivatives WO 2004009784 Bristol Myers Squibb Company pyrrolo 2 1 f 1 2 4 triazin 6 yl compounds WO 2004009601 Bristol Myers Squibb Company azaindole compounds WO 2004001059 Bristol Myers Squibb Company heterocyclic derivatives WO 02102972 Prochon Biotech Ltd. Morphosys AG anti FGFR antibodies WO 02102973 Prochon Biotech Ltd. anti FGFR antibodies WO 00212238 Warner Lambert Company 2 pyridin 4 ylamino 6 dialkoxyphenyl pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidin 7 one derivatives WO 00170977 Amgen Inc. FGFR L and derivatives WO 00132653 Cephalon Inc. pyrazolone derivatives WO 00046380 Chiron Corporation FGFR Ig fusion proteins and WO 00015781 Eli Lilly polypeptides related to the human SPROUTY 1 protein .

Specific preferred examples of low molecular weight FGFR kinase inhibitors that can be used according to the present invention include RO 4396686 Hoffmann La Roche CHIR 258 Chiron also known as TKI 258 PD 173074 Pfizer PD 166866 Pfizer ENK 834 and ENK 835 both Enkam Pharmaceuticals A S and SU5402 Pfizer . Additional preferred examples of low molecular weight FGFR kinase inhibitors that are also PDGFR kinase inhibitors that can be used according to the present invention include XL 999 Exelixis SU6668 Pfizer CHIR 258 TKI 258 Chiron R04383596 Hoffmann La Roche and BIBF 1120 Boehringer Ingelheim .

In the context of the methods of treatment of this invention inhibitors of EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase are used as a composition comprised of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and a non toxic therapeutically effective amount of the kinase inhibitor compound including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof .

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic bases or acids. When a compound of the present invention is acidic its corresponding salt can be conveniently prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic bases including inorganic bases and organic bases. Salts derived from such inorganic bases include aluminum ammonium calcium copper cupric and cuprous ferric ferrous lithium magnesium manganese manganic and manganous potassium sodium zinc and the like salts. Particularly preferred are the ammonium calcium magnesium potassium and sodium salts. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic non toxic bases include salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines as well as cyclic amines and substituted amines such as naturally occurring and synthesized substituted amines. Other pharmaceutically acceptable organic non toxic bases from which salts can be formed include ion exchange resins such as for example arginine betaine caffeine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine diethylamine 2 diethylaminoethanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol ethanolamine ethylenediamine N ethylmorpholine N ethylpiperidine glucamine glucosamine histidine hydrabamine isopropylamine lysine methylglucamine morpholine piperazine piperidine polyamine resins procaine purines theobromine triethylameine trimethylamine tripropylamine tromethamine and the like.

When a compound used in the present invention is basic its corresponding salt can be conveniently prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acids including inorganic and organic acids. Such acids include for example acetic benzenesulfonic benzoic camphorsulfonic citric ethanesulfonic fumaric gluconic glutamic hydrobromic hydrochloric isethionic lactic maleic malic mandelic methanesulfonic mucic nitric pamoic pantothenic phosphoric succinic sulfuric tartaric p toluenesulfonic acid and the like. Particularly preferred are citric hydrobromic hydrochloric maleic phosphoric sulfuric and tartaric acids.

Pharmaceutical compositions used in the present invention comprising an kinase inhibitor compound including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof as active ingredient can include a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and optionally other therapeutic ingredients or adjuvants. Other therapeutic agents may include those cytotoxic chemotherapeutic or anti cancer agents or agents which enhance the effects of such agents as listed above. The compositions include compositions suitable for oral rectal topical and parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular and intravenous administration although the most suitable route in any given case will depend on the particular host and nature and severity of the conditions for which the active ingredient is being administered. The pharmaceutical compositions may be conveniently presented in unit dosage form and prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy.

In practice the kinase inhibitor compounds including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof of this invention can be combined as the active ingredient in intimate admixture with a pharmaceutical carrier according to conventional pharmaceutical compounding techniques. The carrier may take a wide variety of forms depending on the form of preparation desired for administration e.g. oral or parenteral including intravenous . Thus the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can be presented as discrete units suitable for oral administration such as capsules cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient. Further the compositions can be presented as a powder as granules as a solution as a suspension in an aqueous liquid as a non aqueous liquid as an oil in water emulsion or as a water in oil liquid emulsion. In addition to the common dosage forms set out above an EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase inhibitor compound including pharmaceutically acceptable salts of each component thereof may also be administered by controlled release means and or delivery devices. The combination compositions may be prepared by any of the methods of pharmacy. In general such methods include a step of bringing into association the active ingredients with the carrier that constitutes one or more necessary ingredients. In general the compositions are prepared by uniformly and intimately admixing the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both. The product can then be conveniently shaped into the desired presentation.

An EGFR kinase FGFR kinase or PDGFR kinase inhibitor compound including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof used in this invention can also be included in pharmaceutical compositions in combination with one or more other therapeutically active compounds. Other therapeutically active compounds may include those cytotoxic chemotherapeutic or anti cancer agents or agents which enhance the effects of such agents as listed above.

Thus in one embodiment of this invention the pharmaceutical composition can comprise a kinase inhibitor compound in combination with an anticancer agent wherein said anti cancer agent is a member selected from the group consisting of alkylating drugs antimetabolites microtubule inhibitors podophyllotoxins antibiotics nitrosoureas hormone therapies kinase inhibitors activators of tumor cell apoptosis and antiangiogenic agents.

The pharmaceutical carrier employed can be for example a solid liquid or gas. Examples of solid carriers include lactose terra alba sucrose talc gelatin agar pectin acacia magnesium stearate and stearic acid. Examples of liquid carriers are sugar syrup peanut oil olive oil and water. Examples of gaseous carriers include carbon dioxide and nitrogen.

In preparing the compositions for oral dosage form any convenient pharmaceutical media may be employed. For example water glycols oils alcohols flavoring agents preservatives coloring agents and the like may be used to form oral liquid preparations such as suspensions elixirs and solutions while carriers such as starches sugars microcrystalline cellulose diluents granulating agents lubricants binders disintegrating agents and the like may be used to form oral solid preparations such as powders capsules and tablets. Because of their ease of administration tablets and capsules are the preferred oral dosage units whereby solid pharmaceutical carriers are employed. Optionally tablets may be coated by standard aqueous or nonaqueous techniques.

A tablet containing the composition used for this invention may be prepared by compression or molding optionally with one or more accessory ingredients or adjuvants. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered compound moistened with an inert liquid diluent. Each tablet preferably contains from about 0.05 mg to about 5 g of the active ingredient and each cachet or capsule preferably contains from about 0.05 mg to about 5 g of the active ingredient.

For example a formulation intended for the oral administration to humans may contain from about 0.5 mg to about 5 g of active agent compounded with an appropriate and convenient amount of carrier material that may vary from about 5 to about 95 percent of the total composition. Unit dosage forms will generally contain between from about 1 mg to about 2 g of the active ingredient typically 25 mg 50 mg 100 mg 200 mg 300 mg 400 mg 500 mg 600 mg 800 mg or 1000 mg.

Pharmaceutical compositions used in the present invention suitable for parenteral administration may be prepared as solutions or suspensions of the active compounds in water. A suitable surfactant can be included such as for example hydroxypropylcellulose. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols and mixtures thereof in oils. Further a preservative can be included to prevent the detrimental growth of microorganisms.

Pharmaceutical compositions used in the present invention suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions. Furthermore the compositions can be in the form of sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of such sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. In all cases the final injectable form must be sterile and must be effectively fluid for easy syringability. The pharmaceutical compositions must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage thus preferably should be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol e.g. glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol vegetable oils and suitable mixtures thereof.

Pharmaceutical compositions for the present invention can be in a form suitable for topical sue such as for example an aerosol cream ointment lotion dusting powder or the like. Further the compositions can be in a form suitable for use in transdermal devices. These formulations may be prepared utilizing a kinase inhibitor compound including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof via conventional processing methods. As an example a cream or ointment is prepared by admixing hydrophilic material and water together with about 5 wt to about 10 wt of the compound to produce a cream or ointment having a desired consistency.

Pharmaceutical compositions for this invention can be in a form suitable for rectal administration wherein the carrier is a solid. It is preferable that the mixture forms unit dose suppositories. Suitable carriers include cocoa butter and other materials commonly used in the art. The suppositories may be conveniently formed by first admixing the composition with the softened or melted carrier s followed by chilling and shaping in molds.

In addition to the aforementioned carrier ingredients the pharmaceutical formulations described above may include as appropriate one or more additional carrier ingredients such as diluents buffers flavoring agents binders surface active agents thickeners lubricants preservatives including anti oxidants and the like. Furthermore other adjuvants can be included to render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient. Compositions containing a kinase inhibitor compound including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may also be prepared in powder or liquid concentrate form.

Dosage levels for the compounds used for practicing this invention will be approximately as described herein or as described in the art for these compounds. It is understood however that the specific dose level for any particular patient will depend upon a variety of factors including the age body weight general health sex diet time of administration route of administration rate of excretion drug combination and the severity of the particular disease undergoing therapy.

Many alternative experimental methods known in the art may be successfully substituted for those specifically described herein in the practice of this invention as for example described in many of the excellent manuals and textbooks available in the areas of technology relevant to this invention e.g. Using Antibodies A Laboratory Manual edited by Harlow E. and Lane D. 1999 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press e.g. ISBN 0 87969 544 7 Roe B. A. et. al. 1996 DNA Isolation and Sequencing Essential Techniques Series John Wiley Sons. e.g. ISBN 0 471 97324 0 Methods in Enzymology Chimeric Genes and Proteins 2000 ed. J. Abelson M. Simon S. Emr J. Thorner. Academic Press Molecular Cloning a Laboratory Manual 2001 3Edition by Joseph Sambrook and Peter MacCallum the former Maniatis Cloning manual e.g. ISBN 0 87969 577 3 Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Ed. Fred M. Ausubel et. al. John Wiley Sons e.g. ISBN 0 471 50338 X Current Protocols in Protein Science Ed. John E. Coligan John Wiley Sons e.g. ISBN 0 471 11184 8 and Methods in Enzymology Guide to protein Purification 1990 Vol. 182 Ed. Deutscher M. P. Academic Press Inc. e.g. ISBN 0 12 213585 7 or as described in the many university and commercial websites devoted to describing experimental methods in molecular biology.

This invention will be better understood from the Experimental Details that follow. However one skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the specific methods and results discussed are merely illustrative of the invention as described more fully in the claims which follow thereafter and are not to be considered in any way limited thereto.

The human NSCLC lines H1299 H266 H522 H650 H1437 H1155 Calu1 Hop92 H23 H292 H358 H322 H441 A549 Calu6 H460 H1703 and SW1573 were cultured in the appropriate ATCC recommended supplemented media. Cell extracts were prepared by detergent lysis 50 mM Tris HCl pH8 150 mM NaCl 1 NP 40 0.5 NaDeoxycholate 0.1 SDS containing protease and phosphatase inhibitors. The soluble protein concentration was determined by micro BSA assay Pierce Rockford Ill. . In experiments monitoring serum stimulation cells were grown in media with 0.5 FBS for 24 hours followed by addition of FBS to a final concentration of 10 for 10 minutes prior to lysis. In experiments where inhibitor treatment was required inhibitor was added at the indicated concentration and the cells the stimulated with the indicated ligand. For cell proliferation assays cells were plated inhibitor added and proliferation measured after 72 hours using the CELLTITERGLO cell viability assay Promega Madison Wis. .

Female CD 1 nu nu mice Charles River Laboratories Wilmington Mass. were implanted with harvested NSCLC tumor cells in a single subcutaneous site on the flank of the mice in the axillary region. Tumors were allowed to grow to 200 50 mm at which time the animals were sorted into treatment groups of 8 animals per group based on weight 1 g body weight and tattooed on the tail for permanent identification. Tumor volumes and body weights were determined twice weekly. The tumor volume was determined by measuring in two directions with vernier calipers and calculated using the formula Tumor volume length width 2. The data were plotted as the change in mean values of tumor volume and body weight for each group. The tumor growth inhibition TGI was determined as TGI 100 1 W W where Wis the median tumor volume of the treated group at time x and Wis the median tumor volume of the control group at time x. TARCEVA was dosed in a 6 Captisol CyDex Inc in WFI Water for Injection solution and all control animals were dosed with an equal volume of the vehicle. Tumor growth inhibition studies were dosed by oral gavage once a day for 14 days. Pharmacodynamic studies were dosed by oral gavage for 1 3 days with tumors from 4 control and 4 TARCEVA treated animals harvested and snap frozen in liquid nitrogen 4 hours after dosing on Days 1 2 and 3.

Protein immunodetection was performed by electrophoretic transfer of SDS PAGE separated proteins to nitrocellulose incubation with antibody and chemiluminescent detection PicoWest Pierce Rockford Ill. . Antibodies used were as follows Phospho Akt Cell Signaling Beverly Mass. 9271 Akt Cell Signaling Beverly Mass. 9272 Phospho p44 42 Map kinase Erk1 2 Cell Signaling Beverly Mass. 9101 p44 42 MAP kinase Cell Signaling Beverly Mass. 9102 actin Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. A5441 PDGFR Cell Signaling Beverly Mass. 3164 PDGFR Cell Signaling Beverly Mass. 3961 FGFR2 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc. Santa Cruz Calif. sc122 FGFR3 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc. Santa Cruz Calif. sc123 FGFR4 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc. Santa Cruz Calif. sc124 E cadherin Santa Cruz sc21791 Cytokeratin 8 18 AbCam Cambridge Mass. 8477 Vimentin BD Biosciences San Jose Calif. 550513 GAPDH Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc. Santa Cruz Calif. sc25778 .

Total RNA was isolated from cell lines using the Qiagen RNeasy kit Qiagen 74104 . First strand cDNA was synthesized and PCR of the gene of interest was carried out using a commercial RT PCR kit Perkin Elmer N808 0236 and the appropriate taqman probe see Table 1 on an Applied Biosystems 7300 real time PCR machine.

Xenograft tumors grown in nude mice were harvested and sections embedded in serial sections were cut from the tumor block and a tissue microarray prepared. A human NSCLC tissue microarray was prepared in the same manner. HistoRx Yale Conn. . The tissue sections were de paraffinized first by heating at 60 C. then by two xylene rinses followed by two rinses with 100 ethanol and a rinse in water. Antigen retrieval was performed with a sodium citrate buffer at a pH of 6.0 in the PT Module device LabVision Fremont Calif. . After rinsing briefly in 1 Tris buffered saline TBS a 30 minute incubation with 2.5 hydrogen peroxide methanol was used to block endogenous peroxidases. In order to reduce non specific background staining slides were incubated with 0.3 Bovine serum albumin BSA 1 TBS for one hour at room temperature followed by a series rinses in 1 TBS and 1 TBS 0.01 Triton TBS washes . Slides were incubated overnight at 4 C. with either a monoclonal mouse anti cytokeratin antibody clone AE1 AE3 DAKO Carpinteria Calif. 1 200 specific for keratins 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 10 13 14 15 16 and 19 Moll s designation when using a rabbit primary target antibody or with a rabbit anti cytokeratin antibody Wide Spectrum Screening 1 200 DAKO Carpinteria Calif. binds to a wide variety of epithelial keratins when using a monoclonal mouse primary target antibody. Slides were washed in 1 TBS rinses following overnight primary antibody incubation followed by secondary antibodies for 1 hour at room temperature as follows Alexa 555 goat anti mouse or Alexa 555 goat anti rabbit 1 200 Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. for detecting cytokeratin and species specific horseradish peroxidase HRP with a dextran polymer backbone Envision DAKO Carpinteria Calif. followed by Cy 5 tyramide 1 50 Perkin Elmer Waltham Mass. coupling to the HRP for detection of the target primary antibodies. Cy5 was used for the target antibodies because its emission peak is outside the spectrum of tissue autofluorescence. 4 6 diamidino 2 phenylindole DAPI Prolong Gold Anti fade w DAPI mounting gel Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. was utilized as nuclear marker.

When referring to assessment of keratin levels herein when the expression levels of one or more epithelial keratins are simultaneously assessed e.g. by using an antibody preparation that binds to multiple keratins the assessed keratins are generally referred to either by the specific names of the proteins being assessed e.g. cytokeratin 8 18 or cytokeratin 8 and or cytokeratin 18 determined for example by an antibody preparation containing antibodies to cytokeratins 8 and 18 or just by the term cytokeratin e.g. when one or more keratins are assessed by a pan specific antibody .

EGF receptor EGFR has been shown to be overexpressed in human cancers including lung NSCLC CNS head and neck bladder pancreas and breast and overexpression has been shown to correlate with poor survival Yarden Y. and Sliwkowski M X. Nature Reviews 2001 2 127 137. . Inhibitors of EGFR function have shown clinical utility and the definition of key EGFR signaling pathways which describe patient subsets most likely to benefit from therapy has become an important area of investigation. Though paracrine and autocrine activation of EGFR plays a critical role in the maintenance of epithelial tissues NSCLC lines show considerable variability in their cellular responses to EGFR inhibition and can be relatively insensitive to pharmacological withdrawal of EGFR signaling. The role of EGFR mutations Lynch T J et al. The New England Journal of Medicine 2004 350 2129 2139 Sordella R et al. Science 2004 305 1163 1167 as a principle mechanism in conferring sensitivity to EGFR inhibitors has been controversial Shepherd F A et al. The New England Journal of Medicine 2005 353 123 132. . The variable sensitivities to EGFR inhibition of both cell lines and tumors containing wild type EGFR has been shown to derive in part from EGFR independent activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase pathway leading to a continued phosphorylation of the anti apoptotic serine threonine kinase Akt Vivanco I and Sawyers C L. Nat Rev Cancer 2002 2 489 501. . The molecular determinants to alternative routes of PI 3 kinase activation and consequent EGFR inhibitor insensitivity are poorly described although the insulin like growth factor 1 receptor which strongly activates the PI 3 kinase pathway has been implicated in cellular resistance to EGF inhibitors Chakravarti A et al. Cancer Res 2002 62 200 207 . Recent clinical data also suggest EGFR gene amplification as measured by FISH and EGFR protein as measured by immunohistochemical methods correlate with NSCLC patient benefit to EGFR inhibitors Cappuzzo F. et al. J Natl Cancer Inst 2005 97 9 643 655 Hirsch F R. and Witta S. Curr Opin Oncol 2005 17 2 118 122 .

Here it is demonstrated that human NSCLC cells containing wild type EGFR show a variable sensitivity to erlotinib treatment in vitro and in vivo. Sensitivity to EGFR inhibition did not correlate with total EGFR levels but did correlate with phospho EGFR phospho ErbB3 and with total ErbB3. The sensitivity of the cells and xenografts to erlotinib treatment can be predicted by whether the cells have undergone a process termed epithelial mesenchymal transition EMT . This transition is characterized by the combined loss of epithelial cell junction proteins such as E cadherin and the gain of mesenchymal markers such as vimentin or fibronectin Thiery J P. Curr Opin Cell Biol 2003 15 6 740 746. . It has become increasingly clear over recent years that EMT already established as a critical developmental process plays a major role in the progression of cancer Grunert S et al. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 2003 4 8 657 665 Thiery J P. Nat Rev Cancer 2002 2 6 442 454 .

The data described herein demonstrates that a new mesenchymal like tumor cell type has been identified co expressing the epithelial cell markers cytokeratin 8 and or cytokeratin 18 and the mesenchymal cell marker vimentin. These unusual mesenchymal like hybrid tumor cells have unexpected properties and are sensitive to new anti cancer treatments.

Xenograft growth of H292 and Calu6 NSCLC lines with and without the EGFR kinase inhibitor erlotinib indicated that H292 is sensitive to EGFR inhibition and shows a reduction in tumor volume during the dosing period while Calu6 is insensitive to EGFR inhibition . Calu6 has undergone an EMT like transition and has become relatively insensitive to EGFR inhibition.

E cadherin cytokeratin and vimentin protein expression was measured by fluorescent immunohistochemistry in NSCLC xenografts either sensitive or insensitive to EGFR inhibition . A comparison of the NSCLC xenografts H292 sensitive and Calu6 insensitive was made. The left two panels examine E cadherin staining where E cadherin is stained with a red fluorescent antibody cytokeratin is stained green and the cell nuclei are stained blue with DAPI. The right two panels examine vimentin staining where vimentin is stained with a red fluorescent antibody cytokeratin is stained green and the cell nuclei are stained blue with DAPI. The following observations were made. Cytokeratin is reduced but not abolished in EGFR inhibitor insensitive cells having undergone an EMT like transition. Vimentin is a marker of mesenchymal cell lineages while cytokeratin is a marker of epithelial cells. Mesenchymal like hybrid tumor cells are distinguished by stable expression of both vimentin and cytokeratins 8 and or 18 within a single tumor cell. This can also be observed in non small cell lung cancer again by dual labeling of single tumor cells with pan cytokeratin and vimentin antibodies in an IHC format . Epithelial markers are cytokeratin red the mesenchymal marker is vimentin green . The co staining hybrid tumor cells contain both vimentin and cytokeratin yellow and example regions are indicated by the arrows .

These mesenchymal like hybrid tumor cells have acquired unusual dependence on growth factor receptor pathways not seen in normal epithelial cells and not previously described in tumor cells. For example these tumor cells have acquired the expression of FGF and PDGF receptors. Furthermore they can respond to PDGFs and FGFs in an autocrine or paracrine manner to activate the PI 3 kinase ras raf mek erk and STAT3 5 pathways . The hybrid cells are frequently exquisitely sensitive to PDGF receptor and or FGF receptor kinase inhibitors as measured by proliferation and or migration.

Some hybrid like tumor cells express PDGFR and or FGFR but fail to make the respective ligands in an autocrine manner. However in vivo such newly acquired receptors can respond to PDGFs and FGFs presented by nearby stromal cells e.g. fibroblasts glia endothelial cells and inflammatory cells to promote tumor metastasis and migration. Inhibitors of PDGF and FGF receptors were shown to inhibit these processes in hybrid tumor cells and are predicted to improve cancer patient survival in tumors containing such hybrid tumor cells co expressing vimentin and one or more cytokeratins.

Proteins associated with survival signaling and epithelial mesenchymal cell phenotypes were isolated and measured by multiple experimental approaches. These included mass spectrometry immunoblot and confocal microscopy measurements comparing individual protein abundance between NSCLC tumor lines.

Examination of the proteins and pathways exploited by tumor cells reveal a new hybrid cell type with epithelial and mesenchymal characteristics. Hybrid tumor cells simultaneously express the epithelial keratins e.g. cytokeratin 8 and or 18 and the mesenchymal marker vimentin. The use of PDGFR and FGFR inhibitors to inhibit mesenchymal like hybrid tumor cells is proposed.

In order to understand the biology of the mesenchymal like NSCLC cell lines in more detail the expression patterns of a number of different receptor tyrosine kinases and their ligands were profiled. The cell lines used are detailed in Table 2.

In order to understand the biology of the mesenchymal like NSCLC cell lines in more detail the expression levels of the 2 members of the PDGF receptor family and as well as the ligands for these receptors PDGFa and PDGFb was profiled. shows the results from a quantitative PCR assay using Taqman probes specific for the genes indicated. The results are shown as an average of duplicate experiments.

Analysis of the panel of NSCLC cell lines indicated that all of the cells produced PDGF ligands irrespective of whether their phenotype was mesenchymal like or epithelial. The mesenchymal like cell line H1703 produced large amounts of PDGFb. Interestingly none of the four epithelial cell lines expressed either PDGFR or PDGFR whereas 8 13 of the mesenchymal like lines expressed one or other of the receptors. Most notably H1703 expressed large levels of PDGFRa. These results suggest that the mesenchymal like cells lines have gained expression of PDGF receptors and potentially signal in an autocrine fashion.

As confirmation of the analysis at the mRNA level western blots were probed with antibodies against PDGFR or PDGFR . This confirmed that none of the epithelial cell lines expressed either PDGFR or PDGFR . Expression of PDGFR was restricted to H1703 cells but PDGFR was expressed to some extent in all of the mesenchymal like lines analysed.

Collectively these results indicate that the mesenchymal like cells as part of their epithelial to mesenchymal transition have gained expression of PDGF receptors and are likely to be utilizing this receptor signaling axis to mediate proliferation and or survival signals. Therefore the ability of PDGFR inhibitors to inhibit proliferation of these cell lines was tested. The inhibitor OSI 930 OSI Pharmaceuticals Melville N.Y. was utilized. This is a dual Kit KDR inhibitor which also shows relatively good potency against PDGF receptors.

Three mesenchymal like cell lines H1703 Calu1 and H226 and one epithelial cell line H358 were treated with increasing concentrations of OSI 930 in 10 FCS and cell proliferation assayed using CellTitreGlo. Inhibition of cell growth by OSI930 was only observed in H1703 cells. H1703 cells produce large amounts of ligand suggesting that the inhibitor was working by inhibiting autocrine PDGFR signaling. Although the other cell lines H226 and Calu1 contain high levels of PDGFR they are not growth inhibited by the PDGFR inhibitor. This may be due to there being insufficient activating ligand present in this cell culture system N.B. PDGFR receptor dimer is only activated by PDGF BB not PDGF AB or PDGF AA . However ligand will likely be available from paracrine signaling in human tumor tissue. In order to address this question the cells were grown with 0.5 FCS and PDGF mixed AA AB and BB forms added to the media to more closely model paracrine PDGF signaling. However although H1703 cells were inhibited more potently under these conditions by OSI 930 the other cell lines failed to show any enhanced growth inhibition in monolayer tissue culture . The intracellular signaling pathways ERK MAP kinase and AKT were both inhibited in H1703 cells treated with the PDGFR inhibitor OSI 930 . The inhibitor reduced phosphorylation of ERK MAP kinase and AKT on serine 473 under basal 10 FCS and ligand stimulated conditions. The H226 cell line expressing the PDGFR receptor but the incorrect ligand i.e. not PDGF BB the primary activating ligand for PDGFR only showed ligand induced inhibition of ERK and AKT pathways. Both H1703 and Calu1 showed inhibition of cell motility in response to the PDGFR inhibitor OSI 930 .

Collectively these data indicate that the gain of PDGF receptor expression is a marker for cells that have undergone EMT and are now insensitive to EGFR pathway inhibition. It seems apparent that H1703 depends upon the PDGFR pathway for proliferation and survival pathways with inhibition of the PDGFR receptor providing a strong growth inhibitory response. The other mesenchymal like cell lines which express the PDGFR receptor do not show growth inhibition upon inhibitor treatment either in full serum or with addition of exogenous PDGF suggesting that they may not utilize the PDGFR pathway for proliferation or survival under the conditions tested in vitro. However when subjected to the diverse extracellular stimuli they will encounter in the in vivo environment it seems likely that many tumor cells like these will respond to inhibition of the PDGFR pathway in such a setting.

A quantitative PCR assay was carried out to analyze the expression levels of two members of the FGFR family FGFR1 and FGFR2 in tumor cells .

The results indicate that expression of the FGFR1 receptor is restricted to mesenchymal like NSCLC cell lines with no expression in the epithelial cell lines. H1703 and H522 express high levels of the FGFR1 receptor in relation to the other mesenchymal like cell lines. The expression level of FGFR2 was low in all the cell lines tested irrespective of phenotype. These data suggest that FGFR1 is upregulated in mesenchymal like NSCLC cell lines and may play a role in cell proliferation survival signaling.

The protein levels of each of the four members of the FGF receptor family was analyzed by immunoblot analysis . The results confirmed the RT PCR analysis suggesting that FGFR1 was expressed predominately in the mesenchymal like cell lines whereas FGFR2 was only expressed to any significant extent in SW1573 and H226 cells. Interestingly H226 although expressing low levels of FGFR2 mRNA shows relatively high protein expression.

In addition it was also observed that FGFR3 is expressed primarily in the mesenchymal like cells except for H322 which shows high levels. FGFR4 is expressed to some degree in all of the cell lines analyzed.

To determine whether FGFR was involved in stimulating cell proliferation survival signals in these cells a small molecule inhibitor PD173074 Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. which is specific for the FGFR family specifically FGFR1 and FGFR3 was utilized. Two mesenchymal like NSCLC cell lines showing detectable levels of FGFR1 3 and 4 were treated with increasing concentrations of PD173074 and cell proliferation assayed using the CELLTITERGLO cell viability assay Promega Madison Wis. . H1703 and H226 cells were growth inhibited by treatment with PD173074 whereas the inhibitor had little effect upon Calu1 cells.

In order to understand what impact the inhibitor had on intracellular signaling pathways in the two sensitive cell lines the cells were treated with PD173074 in the presence or absence of exogenously added ligand. Activation of the ERK MAP kinase pathway was inhibited by PD173074 under both basal Con and ligand FGF stimulated conditions. The AKT pathway was only inhibited after ligand stimulation in H1703 cells. Signaling in Calu1 cells was unaffected by PD173074.

Collectively these results indicate that mesenchymal like cells have an increased level of FGF receptors and at least two cell types H1703 and H226 utilize signaling through the receptor to send cell survival and proliferation signals.

PDGFR and FGFR upregulation can be observed as tumor cells are stimulated to undergo EMT as for example in TGF 3 treated H358 cells .

In summary the results described herein demonstrate that mesenchymal like tumor cells that are relatively insensitive to EGFR kinase inhibitors such as erlotinib are hybrid tumor cells in that they express characteristics of both epithelial and mesenchymal cells and can be identified by determining the co expression at similar levels of particular epithelial e.g. cytokeratins e.g. keratin 8 an or keratin 18 and mesenchymal e.g. vimentin biomarkers. Thus identification of such mesenchymal like hybrid tumor cells is diagnostic of a tumor cell type that is relatively insensitive to inhibition by EGFR kinase inhibitors.

The results described herein also demonstrate that mesenchymal like hybrid tumor cells have acquired elevated levels of other receptor kinases e.g. PDGFR FGFR that can enhance the proliferation and mobility of the tumor cells. Thus identification of such mesenchymal like hybrid tumor cells is diagnostic of a tumor cell type that while relatively insensitive to inhibition by EGFR kinase inhibitors may be sensitive to inhibition by other receptor kinase inhibitors e.g. inhibitors of FGFR or PDGFR . The data presented herein demonstrates that of the mesenchymal like hybrid tumor cells examined 17 were inhibited by an inhibitor of either PDGFR or FGFR kinase while 8 were inhibited by both. The percentage of hybrid tumor cells inhibited is likely to be considerably higher when other receptor kinases are considered and or when the growth of cells is monitored in an in vivo environment where ligand availability and sensitivity may be considerably enhanced.

Consequently identification of a cancer patient s tumor cells as mesenchymal like hybrid cells should provide physicians with a valuable diagnostic tool to help determine the potential mode of treatment of the patient and thus enhance their chances of survival.

EGF epidermal growth factor EMT epithelial to mesenchymal transition NSCLC non small cell lung carcinoma HNSCC head and neck squamous cell carcinoma CRC colorectal cancer MBC metastatic breast cancer EGFR epidermal growth factor receptor PDGFR platelet derived growth factor receptor FGFR Fibroblast growth factor receptor Brk Breast tumor kinase also known as protein tyrosine kinase 6 PTK6 IHC immunohistochemistry LC liquid chromatography MS mass spectrometry IGF 1 insulin like growth factor 1 TGF transforming growth factor alpha HB EGF heparin binding epidermal growth factor LPA lysophosphatidic acid TGF transforming growth factor alpha IC half maximal inhibitory concentration pY phosphotyrosine wt wild type PI3K phosphatidyl inositol 3 kinase GAPDH Glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase TBS tris buffered saline.

All patents published patent applications and other references disclosed herein are hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference.

Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to specific embodiments of the invention described specifically herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed in the scope of the following claims.

