---

title: Method and apparatus for integrating a soft mobile VoIP client in a cellular PC card
abstract: A method and apparatus for integrating a Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) client in a wireless PC card are disclosed. A soft mobile phone client is combined with a cellular PC card to create a single physical device that is capable of providing VoIP services to a computer user through the cellular capabilities of the device itself, or alternatively, through any other Internet connectivity available to the computer. When a user inserts the VoIP client/Cellular PC Card into a computer, a graphical user interface (GUI) within the connection manager software is launched allowing the user to communicate VoIP function commands to the VoIP client. A check for Internet connectivity may be performed, at which time the Radio portion of the enhanced PC card may be put into an idle state if connectivity is detected, or may alternatively establish Internet connectivity through the cellular portion of the enhanced PC card.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08665899&OS=08665899&RS=08665899
owner: InterDigital Technology Corporation
number: 08665899
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080411
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60 911 631 filed Apr. 13 2007 which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth.

This application is related to wireless communications. More particularly this application is related to a method and apparatus for providing a voice over Internet protocol VoIP in a wireless PC card.

Due to high cellular charges and in particular roaming and international roaming expenses users typically use low cost or free voice over internet protocol VoIP services such as the commercially available service Skype when an alternate Internet connection option is available instead of cellular service which may be more expensive. This behavior is generally typical amongst business travelers in hotel rooms with a laptop PC at their disposal. In this scenario an Internet service may be provided via a wired or wireless e.g. WiFi connection in a typical manner. This behavior is of course not in the best interest of the cellular provider who effectively loses voice traffic revenues to the free VoIP services.

To counter this threat technology is currently being introduced that enables the cellular provider to offer the user a VoIP type service such that traffic related to this service is handled by the cellular provider as opposed to a third party network. This technology may take the form of a soft mobile phone client provided by the cellular operator. In a typical embodiment this soft mobile phone client may reside in a universal serial bus USB stick flash memory form factor along with a subscriber identity module SIM card.

Typically the user will insert the USB SIM device into their laptop computer thus launching a soft mobile phone client on the laptop or PC. Subsequently the soft mobile phone client will search for Internet connectivity on the laptop or PC e.g. via WiFi WiMAX Bluetooth or other connection and enable the voice service via this connection. The value proposition for this type of approach may include the promise from the operator of better QoS and access to the same familiar package of services normally enjoyed via cellular service. A well known technology which enables this type of offering is Unlicensed Mobile Access UMA technology or as it is more commonly known Generic Access Network GAN as specified in the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP .

The problem with this approach is that quite often a user particularly a business user will also have high speed cellular PC card e.g. ExpressCard based in their laptop which is also equipped with a SIM card and may contain other duplicated functions such as the Non Access Stratum NAS that may be found in soft mobile phone clients.

It is quite common for carriers to market numerous phone brands and cellular PC cards in various form factors. One popular form factor in particular for business users is the PC card PCMCIA or ExpressCard form factor. However UMA GAN is typically viewed as a mid end feature phone feature and not one applicable to PC cards thereby making the cellular PC card incapable of VoIP communications.

It is a goal of cellular carriers to maximize Average Revenue Per User ARPU build customer loyalty and minimize churn. This is principally what a service like UMA GAN provides. It enables the user to access typically via WiFi networks at their convenience and benefit but at the same time continue to use the application services of the carrier. The hidden benefits to the carrier in this arrangement in addition to possible fiscal benefits from the basic UMA GAN service subscription include reduced customer churn through avoidance of the lure of alternative VoIP services such as Skype and continued access to the carrier s pool of services normally only available via the cellular service for which the customer may be paying a premium while they are accessing the Internet via WiFi .

Issues arise when desired functionality such as wireless services and UMA GAN are contained in multiple physical devices. First there is the unattractive overhead of dealing with multiple peripheral devices when one would be preferable. Therefore it would be beneficial to combine these functions into a single physical entity.

A method and apparatus for integrating a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP client in a wireless PC card are disclosed. A soft mobile phone client is combined with a cellular PC card to create a single physical device that is capable of providing VoIP services to a computer user either through the cellular capabilities of the device itself or alternatively for example when the cellular service is unavailable or may be in a roaming state the VoIP client is functional through any other Internet connectivity available to the computer. When a user inserts the VoIP client Cellular PC Card into a computer a graphical user interface GUI contained within the connection manager software is launched that allows the user to communicate VoIP function commands to the VoIP client. A check for Internet connectivity may be performed at which time the Radio portion of the enhanced PC card may be put into an idle or sleep state if connectivity is detected or may alternatively establish Internet connectivity through the cellular portion of the enhanced PC card.

When referred to hereafter the terminology wireless transmit receive unit WTRU includes but is not limited to a user equipment UE a mobile station a fixed or mobile subscriber unit a pager a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a computer or any other type of user device capable of operating in a wireless environment. When referred to hereafter the terminology base station includes but is not limited to a Node B a site controller an access point AP or any other type of interfacing device capable of operating in a wireless environment.

The term computer or PC may be any device capable of supporting a voice call. Such devices include but are not limited to laptop computers PDA s cellular telephones Mobile Internet Devices MIDs Ultra Mobile PCs UMPC automobiles and any other device that may interface with a PC card.

Referring to a functional block diagram of an enhanced cellular PC card is shown. Here the soft mobile phone client functionality is included with wireless connectivity . The soft mobile phone client no longer requires a Non Access Stratum NAS because this functionality is already included in the wireless connectivity . Instead a software interface is introduced to allow the soft mobile phone client to access NAS functionality in the wireless connectivity as shown. The soft mobile phone client now comprises a reduced set of functions that will at a minimum include Unlicensed Mobile Access Generic Access Network UMA GAN and Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP client functions . Additionally the soft mobile phone client may use the SIM card included with the wireless connectivity . For this purpose a software interface may be provided.

Alternatively if the SIM card is remotely located for example in a computer then an external interface for example a Low Pin Count LPC bus direct connection with the SIM or PCI bus may be provided. Additionally a SIM may not be a physical device such as a card but rather SIM functionality implemented in machine readable instructions that is executed on a trusted processor in the PC card or the computer. While an external or software SIM is not shown for the sake of simplicity such configurations and the communications between the enhanced cellular PC card and the SIM card via the computer bus or other internal or external PC Card interfaces falls within the intended scope of this specification.

A policy may interface with both the soft mobile phone client as well as the wireless connectivity through software respectively. The policy may be included in the enhanced cellular PC card provided via the SIM card provided by the operator or in any other configuration that enables the policy to be utilized by the wireless connectivity and the soft mobile phone client . The policy may be initially configured or modified by the operator using for example a Firmware Over the Air FOTA process. The purpose of this policy is to define a set of rules and provide coordination between the two points of connectivity . For example the policy may dictate that when the soft mobile phone client sees WiFi Internet connectivity voice and data calls should be established through this path and the wireless connectivity component should be put into an idle or sleep state.

In another embodiment the policy configuration may be to let the network set the default configuration but include options for the user to set preferences including but not limited to UMA GAN off default to cellular even when alternative IP connectivity is available or vice versa alert the user of the network being used remember settings for each network for example when a traveler returns to a hotel with poor WiFi reception not to try connecting again or alert the user to the previous settings recognize other VoIP services on the computer for example through Vonage or Skype and when detected alert or allow the user to change the preferred connection to the cellular operator. The connection manager may be used to provide user defined aspects of the policy configuration.

In one embodiment the wireless connectivity and soft mobile phone client combination in the PC card do not include any other connectivity mechanism other than the RF module . In this embodiment alternate IP connectivity for example via a hard wired Internet connection WiFi WIMAX Bluetooth and the like require such capabilities to be provided via the computer. For example this functionality may be embedded in the computer or it may be available via another peripheral device inserted into the computer.

In general a PC card may be a multi mode device that includes other wired or wireless IP connectivity i.e. WIMAX or WiFi may be implemented on the same PC card as the soft mobile phone client and wireless connectivity utilizing the RF AS and NAS . In such a case the PC card will have internal hardware or software interfaces to the other IP connectivity as well as if required hardware and software interfaces to the PC platform. Thus the IP connectivity may be through the computer or the PC card. Similarly part or all of the connection manager software may reside on the PC card and other subsystems e.g. audio may also reside on the PC card. For simplicity the description treats a PC card that does not include other wired or wireless IP connectivity any part of the connection manager or other subsystems but such configurations fall within the scope of this specification.

From an end user perspective the system would operate as follows upon connection of the enhanced cellular PC card the GUI functionality would automatically be launched. Typically if the GUI is in the enhanced cellular PC card this would be the case. By way of example the GUI may be a graphical representation of a cellular phone. This may automatically appear on the PC display or may be discretely concealed in an icon on a toolbar that must be clicked to launch. Alternatively if the GUI is part of the connection manager for example as an application running on the OS in the PC then a manual action by the end user may be required to launch the GUI . With the GUI launched and Internet connectivity available wired or wireless via the PC the end user may proceed to make phone calls utilizing the method described below. While aforementioned GUI is provided by way of example one skilled in the art will recognize that other means for initiating or terminating a call may be used such as text entry software configured to automatically dial or a handset or other peripheral that allows dialing or initiation and or termination of a phone call.

Referring to a method of making a VoIP phone call utilizing an enhanced cellular PC card is described. The enhanced cellular PC card is first connected to the computer through a compatible interface block . The compatible interface may be USB Express Card Mini Card or any interface capable of supporting data communications between the enhanced cellular PC card and the computer. When the enhanced cellular PC card is connected to the computer the GUI interface is launched in block . The graphical user interface enables the user to operate the computer as if it were a phone. The graphical user interface may be a representation on the computer display of a cellular phone or simply a dial pad voice dialer or other type of display for placing or receiving a call. The graphical user interface may reside on the enhanced cellular PC card in which case the act of connecting the card to the computer may automatically launch the GUI. Alternatively the GUI may reside within the connection manager software of the computer s operating system in which case the graphical user interface may be launched manually by the user at the computer. The VoIP client then checks to see if there is Internet connectivity block . Internet connectivity may be provided by the enhanced PC modem card s radio frequency RF wireless capabilities or alternatively may be provided through another connection to which the computer has access such as a hard wired network or a WiFi connection to which the computer has access by a wireless transceiver located somewhere other than the enhanced cellular PC modem card. If Internet connectivity is available the existing connection to the Internet is used block . If no Internet connectivity is detected the cellular wireless capability of the enhanced cellular PC card is activated and a connection with the Internet is established.

Once Internet connectivity is established the soft mobile client establishes the VoIP communication through the Internet connection and provides voice calling via the soft mobile phone client and the Internet connection block . is an example of a selected policy but other policies may result in different options such as using a traditional switched circuit voice connection if one is available.

Although a UMA GAN based soft mobile phone client approach may be used additional approaches may be utilized. For example a soft mobile phone client based upon the IEEE 802.21 standard may be used. Alternatively the mobile phone soft client may use information associated with the policy to utilize aspects of the 802.21 standard. Other protocols that enable VoIP for example Session Initiation Protocol SIP may be used. This configuration of wireless connectivity soft mobile client and policy may present a compelling offering to cellular operators as it provides the ability to market a single PC product and maintain a good degree of control and manage the use of all wireless connectivity means collectively available in the enhanced cellular PC card and the computer into which the enhanced cellular PC card is inserted.

Although features and elements are described above in particular combinations each feature or element can be used alone without the other features and elements or in various combinations with or without other features and elements. The methods or flow charts provided herein may be implemented in a computer program software or firmware incorporated in a computer readable storage medium for execution by a general purpose computer or a processor. Examples of computer readable storage mediums include a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a register cache memory semiconductor memory devices magnetic media such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical media and optical media such as CD ROM disks and digital versatile disks DVDs .

Suitable processors include by way of example a general purpose processor a special purpose processor a conventional processor a digital signal processor DSP a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in association with a DSP core a controller a microcontroller Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs circuits any other type of integrated circuit IC and or a state machine.

A processor in association with software may be used to implement a radio frequency transceiver for use in a wireless transmit receive unit WTRU user equipment UE terminal base station radio network controller RNC or any host computer. The WTRU may be used in conjunction with modules implemented in hardware and or software such as a camera a video camera module a videophone a speakerphone a vibration device a speaker a microphone a television transceiver a hands free headset a keyboard a Bluetooth module a frequency modulated FM radio unit a liquid crystal display LCD display unit an organic light emitting diode OLED display unit a digital music player a media player a video game player module an Internet browser and or any wireless local area network WLAN or Ultra Wide Band UWB module.

